 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Glossary 

The following represents terms and statistics specific to our business and industry. They are used by management to evaluate and measure operations, results, productivity and efficiency. 

&#160;

Block Hour 

The time interval between when an aircraft departs the terminal until it arrives at the destination terminal. &#160;

C Check 

High-level or &#147;heavy&#148; airframe maintenance checks, which are more intensive in scope than Line Maintenance and are generally performed between 18 and 24 months depending on aircraft type. &#160;

D Check 

High-level or &#147;heavy&#148; airframe maintenance checks, which are the most extensive in scope and are generally performed every six and eight years depending on aircraft type. &#160;

Heavy Maintenance 

Scheduled maintenance activities, which are the most extensive in scope and are primarily based on time or usage intervals, including, but not limited to, C Checks, D Checks and engine overhauls. In addition, unscheduled engine repairs involving the removal of the engine from the aircraft are considered to be Heavy Maintenance. Heavy Maintenance can generally take from one to eight weeks to complete. &#160;

Line Maintenance 

Unscheduled maintenance to rectify events occurring during normal day-to-day operations. &#160;

Non-heavy Maintenance 

Discrete maintenance activities for the overhaul and repair of specific aircraft components, including landing gear, auxiliary power units and engine thrust reversers. &#160;

Yield 

The average amount a customer pays to fly one tonne of cargo one mile. &#160; 

Overview 

AAWW is a holding company with a principal wholly owned operating subsidiary, Atlas Air, Inc. (&#147;Atlas&#148;). It also has a 51% economic interest and 75% voting interest in Polar Air Cargo Worldwide, Inc. (&#147;Polar&#148;). AAWW is also the parent company of several wholly owned subsidiaries related to our dry leasing services (collectively referred to as &#147;Titan&#148;). When used in this Report, the terms &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; and the &#147;Company&#148; refer to AAWW and all entities in our consolidated financial statements. 

&#160;

&#160;

We are a leading global provider of outsourced aircraft and aviation operating services, operating the world&#146;s largest fleet of 747 freighters, as well as operating 747 and 767 passenger aircraft and 767 freighters. We also own and dry lease a portfolio of aircraft, including six 777 freighters. We provide unique value to our customers by giving them access to highly reliable new production freighters that deliver the lowest unit cost in the marketplace combined with outsourced aircraft operating services that we believe lead the industry in terms of quality and global scale. Our customers include airlines, express delivery providers, freight forwarders, the U.S. military and charter brokers. We provide global services with operations in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, North America and South America. 

Our primary service offerings include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ACMI, whereby we provide outsourced cargo and passenger aircraft operating solutions, including the provision of an aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance, while customers assume fuel, demand and Yield risk. In addition, customers are responsible for landing, navigation and most other operational fees and costs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CMI, which is part of our ACMI business segment, whereby we provide outsourced cargo and passenger aircraft operating solutions, including the provision of crew, maintenance and insurance, but not the aircraft. Customers assume fuel, demand and Yield risk. In addition, customers are responsible for landing, navigation and most other operational fees and costs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Charter, whereby we provide cargo and passenger aircraft charter services to customers, including the U.S. Military Air Mobility Command (&#147;AMC&#148;), brokers, freight forwarders, direct shippers, airlines, sports teams and fans, and private charter customers. The customer pays a fixed charter fee that includes fuel, insurance, landing fees, navigation fees and most other operational fees and costs; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Dry Leasing, whereby we provide cargo and passenger aircraft and engine leasing solutions. The customer operates, and is responsible for insuring and maintaining, the flight equipment. 

We believe that the scale, scope and quality of our outsourced services are unparalleled in our industry. The relative operating cost efficiency of our current 747-8F, 747-400F and 777-200LRF aircraft, including their superior fuel efficiency, range, capacity and loading capabilities, creates a compelling value proposition for our customers and positions us well in the markets we operate. 

&#160; 

We are focused on the further enhancement of our market-leading ACMI position. We are currently the only operator offering 747-8F aircraft to the ACMI market and we have the flexibility to expand our fleet in response to market conditions. In November 2015, we purchased and took delivery of our 10th 747-8F aircraft which we placed in Charter service until its placement with an ACMI customer. We believe that our current fleet, which also includes our 747-400F aircraft, represents one of the most efficient, reliable freighter fleets in the market. Our primary placement for these aircraft will continue to be long-term ACMI outsourcing contracts with high-credit-quality customers. 

Our Dry Leasing business is primarily focused on a portfolio of six 777-200LRF aircraft that are Dry Leased to customers on a long-term basis. The 777 freighters further diversify our business mix and enhance our predictable, long-term revenue and earnings streams. During 2015, we expanded our Dry Leasing portfolio through the acquisition of two 767-300 passenger aircraft that have been converted to freighters. One entered service in December 2015, while the other will enter service during the first quarter of 2016. Both aircraft are subject to long-term Dry Lease and CMI agreements. 

AAWW was incorporated in Delaware in 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 2000 Westchester Avenue, Purchase, New York 10577, and our telephone number is (914) 701-8000. 

Recent Developments 

On January 15, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire Southern Air Holdings, Inc., (&#147;Southern Air&#148;) (the &#147;Merger&#148;). Total consideration valued at approximately $110.0 million is expected to be paid using available cash on hand, subject to customary working capital and other adjustments. The acquisition of Southern Air provides us with immediate entry into 777 and 737 aircraft operating platforms, with the potential for developing additional business with existing and new customers of both companies. The platforms provided by these aircraft will augment our ability to offer customers the broadest array of aircraft and operating services for domestic, regional and international applications. Southern Air currently flies five 777-200F and five 737-400F aircraft under CMI agreements for DHL Express. The Merger is expected to close during the first half of 2016 and is subject to customary closing conditions including, but not limited to, approval by the U.S. Department of Transportation (the &#147;DOT&#148;). 

Operations 

Introduction. Our business is organized into three operating segments based on our service offerings: ACMI, Charter and Dry Leasing. All segments are directly or indirectly engaged in the business of air transportation services but have different commercial and economic characteristics. Each operating segment is separately reviewed by our chief operating decision maker to assess operating results and make resource allocation decisions. Additional information regarding our reportable segments can be found in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report (the &#147;Financial Statements&#148;). 

ACMI. The core of our business is providing cargo aircraft outsourcing services to customers on an ACMI and CMI basis in exchange for guaranteed minimum revenues at predetermined levels of operation for defined periods of time. ACMI and CMI contracts provide a predictable annual revenue and cost base by minimizing the risk of fluctuations such as Yield, fuel and demand risk in the air cargo business. Our revenues and most of our costs under ACMI and CMI contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, minimizing currency risks associated with international business. 

All of our ACMI and CMI contracts provide that the aircraft remain under our exclusive operating control, possession and direction at all times. These contracts further provide that both the contracts and the routes to be operated may be subject to prior and periodic approvals of the U.S. or foreign governments. Revenue from ACMI and CMI contracts is typically recognized as the Block Hours are operated on behalf of a customer during a given month, as defined contractually. If a customer flies below the minimum contracted Block Hour 

&#160; 

guarantee, the contracted minimum revenue amounts are recognized as revenue. The original length of these contracts generally ranges from two to twenty years, although we do offer contracts of shorter duration. In addition, we have also operated short-term ACMI cargo and passenger services and we expect to continue to provide such services. 

As a percentage of our operating revenue, ACMI segment revenue represented 43.4% in 2015, 43.2% in 2014 and 45.6% in 2013. As a percentage of our operated Block Hours, ACMI represented 70.9% in 2015, 71.4% in 2014 and 72.6% in 2013. 

Charter. Our Charter business primarily provides full planeload cargo and passenger aircraft to customers, including the AMC, brokers, freight forwarders, direct shippers, airlines, sports teams and fans, and private charter customers. Charters are for one or more flights based on a specific origin and destination. Atlas also provides limited airport-to-airport cargo services to select markets, including several cities in South America. In addition, we earn revenue on subcontracted Charter flights. Atlas typically bears all direct operating costs for both cargo and passenger charters, which include fuel, insurance, landing and navigation fees, and most other operational fees and costs. 

As a percentage of our operating revenue, Charter segment revenue, which includes fuel and other operational costs, represented 49.9% in 2015, 50.4% in 2014 and 51.4% in 2013. As a percentage of our operated Block Hours, Charter represented 28.2% in 2015, 27.7% in 2014 and 26.7% in 2013. 

Dry Leasing. Our Dry Leasing business provides a specific aircraft or engine without crew, maintenance or insurance to a customer for compensation that is typically based on a fixed monthly amount (a &#147;Dry Lease&#148;). This business is primarily operated by Titan, which is principally a cargo aircraft dry lessor, but also owns and manages aviation assets such as passenger narrow-body aircraft, engines and related equipment. Titan also markets its expertise in asset management, passenger-to-freighter conversion and other aviation-related technical services. As a percentage of our operating revenue, Dry Leasing segment revenue represented 5.9% in 2015, 5.6% in 2014 and 2.1% in 2013. 

Other Revenue. As a percentage of our operating revenue, Other revenue represented 0.8% in 2015, 0.8% in 2014 and 0.9% in 2013. 

DHL Investment and Polar 

DHL Network Operations (USA), Inc. (&#147;DHL&#148;) holds a 49% equity interest and a 25% voting interest in Polar (see Note 3 to our Financial Statements). AAWW owns the remaining 51% equity interest and 75% voting interest. Under a 20-year blocked space agreement that expires in 2027 (the &#147;BSA&#148;), Polar provides air cargo capacity to DHL. In addition, Atlas and Polar have a flight services agreement, whereby Atlas is compensated by Polar on a per Block Hour basis, subject to a monthly minimum Block Hour guarantee, at a predetermined rate that escalates annually. Under the flight services agreement, Atlas provides Polar with crew, maintenance and insurance for the aircraft. Under separate agreements, Atlas and Polar supply administrative, sales and ground support services to one another. Deutsche Post AG (&#147;DP&#148;) has guaranteed DHL&#146;s (and Polar&#146;s) obligations under the various agreements described above. AAWW has agreed to indemnify DHL for and against various obligations of Polar and its affiliates. Collectively, these agreements are referred to in this Report as the &#147;DHL Agreements&#148;. The DHL Agreements provide us with a minimum guaranteed annual revenue stream from aircraft that have been dedicated to Polar for DHL and other customers&#146; freight over the life of the agreements. 

Polar provides full flying for DHL&#146;s transpacific express network and DHL provides financial support and also assumes the risks and rewards of the operations of Polar. In addition to transpacific routes, Polar also flies between the Asia Pacific region, the Middle East and Europe on behalf of DHL and other customers. 

Polar operates six 747-400 freighter aircraft and four 747-8F aircraft that are subleased from us. Atlas operates two additional 747-8F and one additional 747-400 aircraft to support the Polar network and DHL 

&#160; 

through commercial agreements whereby Atlas provides ACMI services to Polar. As such, we have a total of seven 747-400 freighter aircraft and six 747-8F aircraft in ACMI service for DHL and Polar. Atlas also provides incremental charter capacity to Polar on an ad hoc basis. 

We fly CMI service for three 767-300 aircraft, two of which are owned by DHL and one that is Dry Leased by Titan to DHL, and nine 767-200 freighters owned by DHL. The twelve 767 CMI aircraft support both DHL&#146;s North American and intra-Asian networks. 

Long-Term Revenue Commitments 

The following table sets forth the minimum revenues expected to be received from our existing ACMI, CMI and Dry Leasing customers for the years indicated (in thousands): 

&#160;

&#160; $ 484,750 &#160; 2017 

&#160; &#160; 335,237 &#160; 2018 

&#160; &#160; 247,263 &#160; 2019 

&#160; &#160; 119,957 &#160; 2020 

&#160; &#160; 90,710 &#160; Thereafter 

&#160; &#160; 186,936 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total 

&#160; $ 1,464,853 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Sales and Marketing 

We have regional sales offices in various locations, including the United States, Hong Kong, England and Singapore, which cover the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East. These offices market our ACMI, CMI and Dry Leasing services directly to other airlines and logistics companies. They also market our cargo and passenger Charter services to charter brokers, the U.S. military, freight forwarders, direct shippers and airlines. 

Fuel 

Historically, aircraft fuel is one of the most significant expenses for us. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, fuel costs represented 19.6%, 24.9%, and 27.9%, respectively, of our total operating expenses. Fuel prices and availability are subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues, supply and demand, which we can neither control nor accurately predict. The following table summarizes our total fuel consumption and costs: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; &#160; 2013 &#160; Gallons consumed (in thousands) 

&#160; &#160; 147,081 &#160; &#160; &#160; 131,787 &#160; &#160; &#160; 124,949 &#160; Average price per gallon, including tax 

&#160; $ 2.27 &#160; &#160; $ 3.07 &#160; &#160; $ 3.28 &#160; Cost (in thousands) 

&#160; $ 333,390 &#160; &#160; $ 404,263 &#160; &#160; $ 410,353 &#160; Our exposure to fluctuations in fuel price is limited to the commercial portion of our Charter business only. For this business, we shift a portion of the burden of price increases to commercial customers by imposing a surcharge, when applicable. While we believe that fuel price volatility is partly reduced as a result of fuel surcharges, these surcharges do not completely offset the impact of any underlying increases in fuel prices in our Charter business. The ACMI segment has no direct fuel price exposure because ACMI and CMI contracts require our customers to pay for aircraft fuel. Similarly, we generally have no fuel price risk for AMC charters because the price is set under our contract with the AMC, and we receive or make payments to adjust for price increases and decreases from the contractual rate. 

&#160; 

In the past, we have not experienced significant difficulties with respect to fuel availability. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of aircraft fuel, a number of factors, such as geopolitical uncertainties in oil-producing nations and shortages of and disruptions to refining capacity or transportation of aircraft fuel from refining facilities, make accurate predictions unreliable. For example, hostilities and political turmoil in oil-producing nations could lead to disruptions in oil production and/or to substantially increased oil prices. Any inability to obtain aircraft fuel at competitive prices would materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 

Employees 

Our business depends on highly qualified management, operations and flight personnel. As a percentage of our consolidated operating expenses, salaries, wages and benefits accounted for approximately 20.7% in 2015, 19.2% in 2014 and 20.3% in 2013. As of December 31, 2015, we had 1,998 employees, 1,185 of whom were pilots. We maintain a comprehensive training program for our pilots in compliance with U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (&#147;FAA&#148;) requirements, in which each pilot regularly attends recurrent training programs. 

Pilots and flight dispatchers of Atlas and Polar are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the &#147;IBT&#148;). These employees represented approximately 60.3% of our workforce as of December 31, 2015. We are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage as permitted by the Railway Labor Act of 1926 (the &#147;Railway Labor Act&#148;), and may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. 

We have a five-year collective bargaining agreement with our pilots, which will become amendable in September 2016. The terms of the agreement provide for a single pilot workforce that serves both Atlas and Polar. 

We have a five-year collective bargaining agreement with the Atlas and Polar dispatchers, which will become amendable in November 2017. 

Maintenance 

Maintenance represented our third-largest operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2015. Primary maintenance activities include scheduled and unscheduled work on airframes and engines. Scheduled maintenance activities encompass those activities specified in our maintenance program approved by the FAA. The costs necessary to adhere to these maintenance programs may increase over time, based on the age of the equipment or due to FAA airworthiness directives (&#147;ADs&#148;). 

Under the ADs issued pursuant to the FAA&#146;s Aging Aircraft Program, we are subject to extensive aircraft examinations and may be required to undertake structural modifications to our fleet from time to time to address any problems of corrosion and structural fatigue. The FAA has issued increased inspection and maintenance requirements depending on aircraft type and ADs requiring certain additional aircraft modifications. We believe all aircraft in our fleet are in compliance with all existing ADs. It is possible, however, that additional ADs applicable to the types of aircraft or engines included in our fleet could be issued in the future and that the cost of complying with such ADs could be substantial. 

Under our FAA-approved maintenance programs, all Heavy Maintenance is currently performed by third-party service providers that are compensated on a time-and-material basis as we believe they provide the most reliable and efficient means of maintaining our aircraft fleet. 

Insurance 

We maintain insurance of the types and in amounts deemed adequate and consistent with current industry standards. Principal coverage includes: liability for injury to members of the public, including passengers; injury 

&#160; 

to crewmembers and ground staff; damage to our property and that of others; and loss of, or damage to, flight equipment, whether on the ground or in flight. 

Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general and the insured carrier in particular. Terrorist attacks and other adverse events involving aircraft could result in increases in insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage. We participate in an insurance pooling arrangement with DHL and its partners. This allows us to obtain aviation hull and liability, war-risk hull and cargo loss, crew, third-party liability insurance and hull deductible coverage at reduced rates from the commercial insurance providers. If we are no longer included in this arrangement for any reason or if pool members have coverage incidents, we may incur higher insurance costs. 

Governmental Regulation 

General . Atlas and Polar are subject to regulation by DOT and the FAA, among other U.S. and foreign government agencies. The DOT primarily regulates economic issues affecting air service, such as certification, fitness and citizenship, competitive practices, insurance and consumer protection. The DOT has the authority to investigate and institute proceedings to enforce its economic regulations and may assess civil penalties, revoke operating authority or seek criminal sanctions. Atlas and Polar each hold DOT-issued certificates of public convenience and necessity plus exemption authority to engage in scheduled air transportation of property and mail in domestic, as well as enumerated international markets, and charter air transportation of property and mail on a worldwide basis. Atlas additionally holds worldwide passenger charter authority. 

The DOT conducts periodic evaluations of each air carrier&#146;s fitness and citizenship. In the area of fitness, the DOT seeks to ensure that a carrier has the managerial competence, compliance disposition and financial resources needed to conduct the operations for which it has been certificated. Additionally, each U.S. air carrier must remain a U.S. citizen by (i) being organized under the laws of the United States or a state, territory or possession thereof; (ii) requiring its president and at least two-thirds of its directors and other managing officers to be U.S. citizens; (iii) allowing no more than 25% of its voting stock to be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by foreign nationals; and (iv) not being otherwise subject to foreign control. The DOT broadly interprets &#147;control&#148; to exist when an individual or entity has the potential to exert substantial influence over airline decisions through affirmative action or the threatened withholding of consents and/or approvals. We believe the DOT will continue to find Atlas and Polar&#146;s fitness and citizenship favorable. 

In addition to holding the DOT-issued certificate and exemption authority, each U.S. air carrier must hold a valid FAA-issued air carrier certificate and FAA-approved operations specifications authorizing operation in specific regions with specified equipment under specific conditions and is subject to extensive FAA regulation and oversight. The FAA is the U.S. government agency primarily responsible for regulation of flight operations and, in particular, matters affecting air safety, such as airworthiness requirements for aircraft, operating procedures, mandatory equipment and the licensing of pilots, mechanics and dispatchers. The FAA monitors compliance with maintenance, flight operations and safety regulations and performs frequent spot inspections of aircraft, employees and records. The FAA also has the authority to issue ADs and maintenance directives and other mandatory orders relating to, among other things, inspection of aircraft and engines, fire retardant and smoke detection devices, increased security precautions, collision and windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and the mandatory removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. In addition, the FAA mandates certain record-keeping procedures. The FAA has the authority to modify, temporarily suspend or permanently revoke an air carrier&#146;s authority to provide air transportation or that of its licensed personnel, after providing notice and a hearing, for failure to comply with FAA rules, regulations and directives. The FAA is empowered to assess civil penalties for such failures or institute proceedings for the imposition and collection of monetary fines for the violation of certain FAA regulations and directives. The FAA is also empowered to modify, suspend or revoke an air carrier&#146;s authority on an emergency basis, without providing notice and a hearing, where significant safety issues are involved. 

&#160; 

In December 2011, the FAA adopted a rule to impose new flight and duty time requirements with the stated goal of reducing pilot fatigue. The rule took effect on January 14, 2014. The rule applies to our passenger operations but not to our all-cargo operations. The Independent Pilots Association, representing the pilots of United Parcel Service, Inc. (&#147;UPS&#148;), have filed a judicial appeal, in which they are challenging the FAA decision not to include all-cargo operations in the rule. On December 8, 2014, after completing a supplemental analysis, the FAA issued a final supplemental regulatory evaluation showing an even greater disparity between costs and benefits than an initial analysis. The appeal is still pending and a decision is expected in 2016. Should the appeal be successful or should the FAA decide either on its own initiative or pursuant to Congressional directive to change the final rule to include all-cargo operations, it could result in a material increase in crew costs for Atlas and Polar, as well as air carriers that predominately fly nighttime and long-haul flights. It could also have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting crew scheduling flexibility and increasing operating costs, especially with respect to long-range flights. 

International. Air transportation in international markets (the vast majority of markets in which Atlas and Polar operate) is subject to extensive additional regulation. The ability of Atlas and Polar to operate in other countries is governed by aviation agreements between the United States and the respective countries (in the case of Europe, the European Union (the &#147;EU&#148;)) or, in the absence of such an agreement, by principles of reciprocity. Sometimes, aviation agreements restrict the number of carriers that may operate, their frequency of operation, or the routes over which they may fly. This makes it necessary for the DOT to award route and operating rights to U.S. air carrier applicants through competitive route proceedings. International aviation agreements are periodically subject to renegotiation, and changes in U.S. or foreign governments could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of existing route authorities or otherwise affect Atlas and Polar&#146;s international operations. Foreign government authorities also impose substantial licensing and business registration requirements and, in some cases, require the advance filing and/or approval of schedules or rates. Moreover, the DOT and foreign government agencies typically regulate alliances and other commercial arrangements between U.S. and foreign air carriers, such as the ACMI and CMI arrangements that Atlas maintains. Approval of these arrangements is not guaranteed and may be conditional. In addition, approval during one time period does not guarantee approval in future periods. 

A foreign government&#146;s regulation of its own air carriers can also affect our business. For instance, the EU places limits on the ability of EU carriers to use ACMI aircraft operated by airlines of non-EU member states. The regulations have a negative impact on our ACMI business opportunities. 

Airport Access. The ability of Atlas, Polar and our ACMI and CMI customers to operate is dependent on their ability to gain access to airports of their choice at commercially desirable times and on acceptable terms. In some cases, this is constrained by the need for the assignment of takeoff and landing &#147;slots&#148; or comparable operational rights. Like other air carriers, Atlas and Polar are subject to such constraints at slot-restricted airports in cities such as Chicago and a variety of foreign locations (e.g., Tokyo, Shanghai and Incheon). The availability of slots is not assured and the inability of Polar or Atlas&#146; other ACMI customers to obtain additional slots could inhibit efforts to provide expanded services in certain international markets. In addition, nighttime flight restrictions have been imposed or proposed by various airports in Europe, Canada and the U. S. Depending on their severity, these could have an adverse operational impact. 

Access to the New York airspace presents an additional challenge. Because of congestion in the New York area, especially at John F. Kennedy International Airport (&#147;JFK&#148;), the FAA imposes hourly limits on JFK operations of those carriers offering scheduled services and has proposed to place limits on Charter flights. 

As a further means to address congestion, the FAA allows U.S. airports to raise landing fees to defray the costs of airfield facilities under construction or reconstruction. Any landing fee increases implemented would have an impact on airlines generally. 

Security. The U.S. Transportation Security Administration (&#147;TSA&#148;) extensively regulates aviation security through rules, regulations and security directives that are designed to prevent unauthorized access to passenger 

&#160; 

and freighter aircraft and the introduction of prohibited items including firearms and explosives onto an aircraft. Atlas and Polar currently operate pursuant to a TSA-approved risk-based security program that, we believe, adequately maintains the security of all aircraft in the fleet. We utilize the TSA, the intelligence community and the private sector as sources for our aggressive threat-based risk-management program. There can be no assurance, however, that we will remain in compliance with existing or any additional security requirements imposed by TSA or by U.S. Congress without incurring substantial costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations. To mitigate any such increase, we are working closely with the Department of Homeland Security and other government agencies to ensure that a risk-based management approach is utilized to target specific &#147;at-risk&#148; cargo. This approach will limit any exposure to regulation that would require 100% screening of all cargo at an excessive cost. Additionally, foreign governments and regulatory bodies (such as the European Commission) impose their own aviation security requirements and have increasingly tightened such requirements. This may have an adverse impact on our operations, especially to the extent the new requirements may necessitate redundant or costly measures or be in conflict with TSA requirements. We have successfully implemented all European Commission security programs allowing us unimpeded access to European markets. 

Environmental. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including the discharge or disposal of materials and chemicals and the regulation of aircraft noise, which are administered by numerous state, local and federal agencies. For instance, the DOT and the FAA have authority under the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 and under the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 to monitor and regulate aircraft engine noise. We believe that all aircraft in our fleet materially comply with current DOT, FAA and international noise standards. 

We are also subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the &#147;EPA&#148;) regarding air quality in the United States. All of our aircraft meet or exceed applicable EPA fuel venting requirements and smoke emissions standards. 

There is significant U.S. and international government interest in implementing measures to respond to the problem of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Various governments, including the United States, are pursuing measures to regulate climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. 

In October 2013, the International Civil Aviation Organization (&#147;ICAO&#148;) reached a nonbinding agreement to address climate change by developing global-market-based measures to assist in achieving carbon-neutral growth beginning in 2020. The ICAO is directing the effort in the hope of securing a definitive agreement in 2016. Additionally, the EU continues to pursue a parallel track through its Emissions Trading Scheme (&#147;ETS&#148;), which, in recognition of the ongoing ICAO effort, has been suspended with respect to flights to/from the EU and currently applies only to intra-EU flying. Following the end of every year, to the extent the ETS applies, each airline must tender the number of carbon emissions allowances (&#147;Allowances&#148;) corresponding to carbon emissions generated by its flight activity during the year. If the airline&#146;s flight activity during the year has produced carbon emissions exceeding the number of Allowances that it has been awarded, the airline must acquire Allowances from other airlines in the open market. There can be no assurance that the EU will maintain the current suspension of the ETS to all flights except intra-EU flying or that the ICAO will not ultimately adopt a similarly costly measure. 

In the United States, various constituencies have continued to advocate for controls on greenhouse gas emissions. Previously, both houses of the U.S. Congress passed legislation to impose a carbon-related tax on fuel sold to airlines and other entities. However, a bill has not been signed into law. Also, at the urging of states and environmental organizations, the EPA has taken steps that could lead to EPA regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. 

Other Regulations. Air carriers are also subject to certain provisions of the Communications Act of 1934 because of their extensive use of radio and other communication facilities and are required to obtain an aeronautical radio license from the Federal Communications Commission. Additionally, we are subject to U.S. and foreign antitrust requirements and international trade restrictions imposed by U.S. presidential determination 

&#160; 

and U.S. government agency regulation, including the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We endeavor to comply with such requirements at all times. We are also subject to state and local laws and regulations at locations where we operate and at airports that we serve. Our operations may become subject to additional international, U.S. federal, state and local requirements in the future. 

We believe that we are in material compliance with all currently applicable laws and regulations. 

Civil Reserve Air Fleet. As part of our Charter business, Atlas and Polar both participate in the U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet (&#147;CRAF&#148;) Program, which permits the U.S. Department of Defense to utilize participants&#146; aircraft during national emergencies when the need for military airlift exceeds the capability of military aircraft. Participation in the CRAF Program could adversely restrict our commercial business in times of national emergency. Under the CRAF Program, contracts with the AMC typically cover a one-year period. We have made a substantial number of our aircraft available for use by the U.S. military in support of their operations and we operate such flights pursuant to cost-based contracts. Atlas bears all direct operating costs for both passenger and cargo aircraft, which include fuel, insurance, overfly, landing and ground handling expenses. However, the price of fuel used during AMC flights is fixed by the U.S. military. The contracted charter rates (per mile) and fuel prices (per gallon) are fixed by the AMC periodically. We receive reimbursements from the AMC each month if the price of fuel paid by us to vendors for the AMC Charter flights exceeds the fixed price. If the price of fuel paid by us is less than the fixed price, then we pay the difference to the AMC. 

Airlines may participate in the CRAF Program either alone or through a teaming arrangement. We are a member of the team led by FedEx Corporation (&#147;FedEx&#148;). We pay a commission to the FedEx team, based on the revenues we receive under our AMC contracts. The AMC buys cargo capacity on two bases: a fixed basis, which is awarded both annually and quarterly, and expansion flying, which is awarded on an as-needed basis throughout the contract term. While the fixed business is predictable, Block Hour levels for expansion flying are difficult to predict and thus are subject to fluctuation. 

Future Regulation. The U.S. Congress, the DOT, the FAA, the TSA and other government agencies are currently considering, and in the future may consider, adopting new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, our operations, ownership and profitability. It is impossible to predict what other matters might be considered in the future and to judge what impact, if any, the implementation of any future proposals or changes might have on our businesses. 

Competition 

The market for ACMI and CMI services is competitive. We believe that the most important basis for competition in this market is the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the aircraft assets and the scale, scope and quality of the outsourced operating services provided. Atlas is currently the only provider of ACMI services with the modern 747-8F aircraft. The primary ACMI and CMI providers for 747-400 and 767 aircraft include the following: Atlas; Air Atlanta Icelandic; Air Transport Services Group, Inc.; Kalitta Air, LLC; Nippon Cargo Airlines; and Western Global Airlines. As previously noted, Southern Air operates 777 aircraft in the CMI market. 

The Charter market is competitive, with a number of cargo operators that include Cargolux; Kalitta Air, LLC; Nippon Cargo Airline; National Air Cargo; and passenger airlines providing similar services utilizing both 747-400s and 747-200s. We believe that we offer a superior aircraft in the 747-400, and we will continue to develop new opportunities in the Charter market for 747-400 aircraft not otherwise deployed in our ACMI business. 

The Dry Leasing business is also competitive. We believe that we have an advantage over other cargo aircraft lessors in this business as a result of our relationships in the cargo market and our insights and expertise as an operator of aircraft. Titan also competes in the passenger aircraft leasing market to develop key customer relationships, enter strategic geographic markets, and/or acquire feedstock aircraft for future freighter conversion. 

&#160; 

Our primary competitors in the aircraft leasing market include GE Capital Aviation Services; AWAS; Guggenheim Aviation Partners, LLC; CIT Aerospace; Aviation Capital Group Corp.; Aircastle Ltd.; AerCap Holdings N.V.; Fly Leasing; and RBS Aviation Capital, among many others. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;), are available free of charge through our corporate internet website, www.atlasair.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. 

The public may read and copy any materials that we file with SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. 

&#160;

