 ITEM 1. BUSINESS &#160; 

Separation from Abbott Laboratories 

AbbVie (1) was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013. 

Overview 

AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more than 50 compounds or indications in clinical development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, neurological diseases and women's health. 

On May 26, 2015, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies for people impacted by cancer, and its flagship asset IMBRUVICA, a highly effective treatment for hematologic malignancies, for approximately $20.8 billion, consisting of cash consideration of $12.4 billion and equity consideration of $8.4 billion. 

Segments 

AbbVie operates in one business segment&#151;pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 15 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to HUMIRA included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Results of Operations." 

Products 

AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. 

(1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 1 

HUMIRA. HUMIRA (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union: 

Condition &#160; Principal Markets &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Psoriatic arthritis &#160; North America, European Union Ankylosing spondylitis &#160; North America, European Union Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Juvenile idiopathic arthritis &#160; North America, European Union Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) &#160; United States, European Union Axial spondyloarthropathy &#160; United States, European Union Pediatric Crohn's disease (severe) &#160; United States, European Union Hidradenitis Suppurativa &#160; United States, European Union Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis &#160; European Union 

HUMIRA is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, China, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January 2003. HUMIRA is AbbVie's largest product and accounted for approximately 61 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA) is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In addition, in the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022. 

AbbVie continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology, gastroenterology (pediatric ulcerative colitis), and ophthalmology (uveitis). A regulatory application for uveitis has been filed in the United States. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA formulation and delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient experience. 

IMBRUVICA. IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) is a first-in-class, oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK). IMBRUVICA is currently approved for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy, CLL patients who have del 17p and patients with Waldenstr&#246;m's macroglobulinemia. IMBRUVICA is also approved for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy. Accelerated approval was granted for the MCL indication based on overall response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. IMBRUVICA was one of the first medicines to receive a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and IMBRUVICA is one of the few therapies to receive three separate designations. 

HCV products. VIEKIRA PAK (ombitsavir, paritaprevir, and ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) is an all-oral, short-course, interferon-free therapy, with or without ribavirin, for the treatment of adult patients with genotype 1 chronic HCV, including those with compensated cirrhosis. VIEKIRA PAK was approved by the FDA in December 2014. In Europe, AbbVie's HCV treatment is marketed as VIEKIRAX + EXVIERA and is approved for use in patients with genotype 1 and genotype 4 HCV. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for this treatment in January 2015. In July 2015, the FDA approved AbbVie's TECHNIVIE (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir) for use in combination with ribavirin for the treatment of adults with genotype 4 HCV infection in the United States. 

&#8203; 2 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

Additional Virology products. AbbVie's additional virology products include KALETRA and Norvir for the treatment of HIV infection and Synagis for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection in high risk infants. 

KALETRA. KALETRA (lopinavir/ritonavir), which is also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets, is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine that contains two protease inhibitors: lopinavir and ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications as a treatment that maintains viral suppression in people with HIV-1. 

Norvir. Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 

Synagis. Synagis (palivizumab) is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe respiratory disease caused by RSV. 

Metabolics/Hormones products. Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including testosterone deficiency, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism. These products include: 

AndroGel. AndroGel (testosterone gel) is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with symptomatic low testosterone that is available in two strengths: 1 percent and 1.62 percent. 

Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis, and several other conditions. 

Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. 

AbbVie has the rights to sell AndroGel, Creon and Synthroid only in the United States. 

Endocrinology products. Lupron (levprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. 

Other products. AbbVie's other products include the following: 

Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States. 

Anesthesia products. Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide for human use. 

Dyslipidemia products. AbbVie's dyslipidemia products (TriCor (fenofibrate), Trilipix (fenofibric acid), and Niaspan (niacin extended-release)) address the range of metabolic conditions characterized by high cholesterol and/or high triglycerides. 

Zemplar. Zemplar (paricalcitol) is a product sold worldwide for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Stage 3, 4, and 5 chronic kidney disease (CKD). 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 3 

Research and Development Activities 

AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians, and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team. 

The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following phases: 

&#149; Phase 1&#151;involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and potential dosing. &#149; Phase 2&#151;tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients. &#149; Phase 3&#151;tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria. The clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. 

The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication. 

In addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug. 

AbbVie spent approximately $4.3 billion in 2015, $3.3 billion in 2014, and $2.9 billion in 2013 on research to discover and develop new products, indications and processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research, clinical drug supply manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities, clinical trial costs, and collaboration fees and expenses. 

Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity 

Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents filed on or after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process, and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a "patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA 

&#8203; 4 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. 

Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity (patent or regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity. 

Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed three and 14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods. 

Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar products than for small molecule generic pharmaceutical products, and in the European Union, it has also reduced the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products. 

AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications. 

These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2016 to the late 2030s, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of AbbVie's business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 5 

European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022. 

In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark IMBRUVICA), those related to ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir (which are sold under the trademarks VIEKIRA PAK, VIEKIRAX, EXVIERA, and HOLKIRA PAK), and those related to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027. The United States composition of matter patents covering ombitasvir, paritaprevir and dasabuvir are expected to expire in 2032, 2031 and 2029, respectively. 

AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution Capabilities 

AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell, and distribute its products worldwide. 

AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders, and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals, and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians, and country regulatory bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. 

AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels, and other factors. 

In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. In 2015, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 43 percent of AbbVie's 2015 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale. 

Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 

No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. 

&#8203; 6 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business. 

Third Party Agreements 

AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services, and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example, the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be sold outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not currently believe that this agreement is material because AbbVie's business is not substantially at risk without access to these facilities. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any supply disruption and its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the United States is approved to supply syringes to primary markets outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish, and packaging services, transportation, and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption. 

AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements&#151;Other Licensing &#38; Acquisitions Activity," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and has certain agreements with Abbott as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company." 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages for forecasted sales. 

Environmental Matters 

AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2015 were approximately $5 million and $23 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2016 are estimated to be approximately $2 million and $25 million, respectively. 

Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 7 

laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. 

Competition 

The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF and other products that are approved for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. 

Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as "biosimilars." Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also raised complex regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors. 

In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health Service Act, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is more complex than the approval process for, and science behind, generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products. This added complexity is due to steps needed to ensure that the safety and efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, potency, and in vitro characterization. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and clinical studies. The law also requires that the biosimilar must be for a condition of use approved for the original biologic and that the manufacturing facility meets the standards necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent. 

Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law is only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial uncertainty for years to come. 

&#8203; 8 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

In the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed impact on the market share of incumbent products, with significant variation by product. 

Other Competitive Products. Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first introduced in 2003, most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products. 

Regulation&#151;Discovery and Clinical Development 

United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). 

Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be included in the NDA or BLA, and approved by the FDA. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials or patient registries, or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future. 

Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure. 

In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application. 

The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a large developed 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 9 

market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that local clinical studies be conducted in order to obtain regulatory approval in the country. 

The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans). 

Regulation&#151;Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing 

The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees. 

Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties. 

In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use. 

Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future. 

&#8203; 10 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities. 

In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have recently been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D. 

In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act). Under the Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011, AbbVie began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole." 

The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. 

AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2016 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above. 

AbbVie is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program and contains reporting obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 2015 Form 10-K &#124; &#160; &#160; 11 

European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance, and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products. 

Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems. 

Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available. 

Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. 

Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action. 

Employees 

AbbVie employed approximately 28,000 persons as of January 31, 2016. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees. 

Internet Information 

Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website ( www.abbvieinvestor.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website ( www.abbvieinvestor.com ). 

&#8203; 12 &#160; &#124; &#160; 2015 Form 10-K &#8203; &#8203; 

