 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

As used herein, the terms "Company," "AmerisourceBergen," "we," "us," or "our" refer to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation. 

AmerisourceBergen Corporation is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. We deliver innovative programs and services designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. More specifically, we distribute a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals (including specialty pharmaceutical products), over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced compounded sterile preparations, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers located in the United States and select global markets, including chain retail and independent pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, acute care hospitals and health systems, physician practices, medical and dialysis clinics, long-term care and other alternate site pharmacies, veterinarians, and other customers. We also provide pharmacy services to certain specialty drug patients. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, niche premium logistics services, inventory management, pharmacy automation, and pharmacy management. 

Industry Overview 

Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IMS Healthcare, Inc., an independent third party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry, are expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 7.1% from 2015 through 2020, and the growth rate is dependent, in part, on pharmaceutical manufacturer price increases. 

In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the pharmaceutical industry in the United States, and other industry trends, include: 

Aging Population. &#32;The number of individuals age 65 and over in the United States is expected to exceed 55 million by 2020 and is the most rapidly growing segment of the population. This age group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and accounts for a substantial portion of total healthcare expenditures in the United States. 

Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals. &#32;Traditional research and development, as well as the advent of new research, production, and delivery methods, such as biotechnology and gene therapy, continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business. 

Increased Use of Generic Pharmaceuticals. &#32;A number of patents for widely used brand-name pharmaceutical products will continue to expire during the next several years. In addition, increased emphasis by managed care and other third party payors on utilization of generics has accelerated their growth. We consider the increase in generic usage a favorable trend because generic pharmaceuticals have historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin opportunity than brand-name products, although their lower prices reduce revenue growth. Generic pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 89% of the prescription volume in the United States. 

Increased Use of Drug Therapies. &#32;In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and private payors have adopted cost containment measures that encourage the use of efficient drug therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays. Pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 12% of overall healthcare costs. Pharmaceutical manufacturers' continued emphasis on research and development is expected to result in the continuing introduction of cost-effective drug therapies and new uses for existing drug therapies. 

Table of Contents 

Legislative Developments. &#32;In recent years, regulation of the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to increase drug utilization and reduce costs. In March 2010, the federal government enacted major health reform legislation designed to expand access to health insurance, which increased the number of people in the United States who are eligible to be reimbursed for all or a portion of prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides for sweeping changes to Medicare and Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure requirements regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. These policies and other legislative developments (including potential revisions to or repeal of any portions of the health reform legislation) may affect our businesses directly and/or indirectly (see Government Regulation on page 6 for further details). 

Other economic conditions and certain risk factors could adversely affect our business and prospects (see Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 9). 

The Company 

We currently serve our customers (healthcare providers, pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers, and certain specialty drug patients) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service centers and other operations in the United States and selected global markets. In our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel. 

Strategy 

Our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide value-added distribution and service solutions to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. Implementing this disciplined, focused strategy has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well-positioned to continue to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy: 

&#8226; 

Optimize and Grow Our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Service Businesses. We believe we are well-positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution business as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Distribution anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel, as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. 

With the rapid growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the U.S. market, we have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic private label program based in Ireland. We source generics globally, offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturing customers, which includes the current expansion of our international presence into Switzerland, where we lead our global manufacturer relations and commercialization strategy. 

We offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, and logistical support. 

Our provider solutions include: our Good Neighbor Pharmacy&#174; program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs; Elevate Provider Network&#174;, our managed care network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is one of the largest in the U.S.; generic product purchasing and private label services; hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. 

We believe we have one of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation ("ABDC") has a distribution facility network totaling 26 &#32;distribution facilities in the United States. This network includes a national distribution center in Columbus, OH, which offers pharmaceutical manufacturers a single shipping destination. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. 

Table of Contents 

In March 2013, we and Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. ("WBA") entered into various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between WBA and us pursuant to which we distribute branded and generic pharmaceutical products to WBA and an agreement that provides us the ability to access generics and related pharmaceutical products through a global sourcing arrangement with Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH ("WBAD"). In May 2016, our distribution agreement with WBA and our global sourcing arrangement with WBAD were extended to now expire in 2026. The increased volume associated with the distribution agreement improved our distribution center efficiency and our access to WBAD continues to improve our purchasing power. 

In an effort to supplement our organic growth, we continue to utilize a disciplined approach to seek acquisitions that will assist us with our strategic growth plans. 

In November 2015, we acquired PharMEDium Healthcare Holdings, Inc. ("PharMEDium"), the leading national provider of outsourced compounded sterile preparations ("CSPs") to acute care hospitals in the United States. PharMEDium is the premier provider of customized outsourced CSPs that meet specific hospital and physician clinical needs and quality standards in formulations that are not otherwise commercially available. PharMEDium delivers "sterile to sterile" CSPs in a ready to use form with enhanced safety, labeling, sterility assurance, and extended expiration dating supported by appropriate studies that often exceeds what hospital pharmacies can accomplish on their own. The CSPs are prepared in state-of-the-art, FDA and state board of pharmacy inspected facilities, using only FDA-approved or allowed drugs in finished dosage form and FDA-approved diluents and FDA-cleared containers (see Risk Factor &#8212; Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) . PharMEDium maintains four Section 503B outsourcing facilities, provides a broad range of 2,000 SKUs, and serves over 3,000 hospital customers across all 50 states. The acquisition of PharMEDium strengthened our core business and meaningfully expanded our innovative service offerings to our health systems customers. 

&#8226; 

Optimize and Grow Our Specialty Distribution and Service Businesses. Our specialty pharmaceuticals business has a significant presence in this growing part of the pharmaceutical supply channel. With distribution and value-added services to physicians and other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics, our specialty pharmaceuticals business is a well-developed platform for growth. We are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. We also distribute plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, and vaccines. Additionally, we are well-positioned to service and support many of the new biotechnology therapies that will be coming to market in the near future. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in specialty distribution and services. 

In fiscal 2014, we expanded globally by acquiring a minority ownership in Profarma Distribuidora de Produtos Farmac&#234;uticos S.A. ("Profarma"), a leading pharmaceutical wholesaler in Brazil. In addition, we launched a joint venture with Profarma to provide enhanced specialty distribution and services to the Brazilian marketplace. 

&#8226; 

Optimize and Grow Our Manufacturer Services Businesses. Our consulting service businesses help global pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products in the channel. We believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. We also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies. World Courier Group, Inc. ("World Courier"), is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. World Courier further strengthens our service offerings to global pharmaceutical manufacturers and provides an established platform for the introduction of our specialty services outside North America. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in consulting and other services. 

&#8226; 

Optimize and Grow Our Animal Health Distribution and Service Business. In February 2015, we acquired MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. ("MWI"), a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. MWI also offers its customers a variety of value-added services, including its e-commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate MWI with its customers' day-to-day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to continue doing business with MWI. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in animal health distribution and services. 

&#8226; 

Divestitures. In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas of pharmaceutical distribution and related services and specialty pharmaceutical distribution and related services, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to time, consider additional divestitures. 

Table of Contents 

Operations 

Operating Structure. &#32;We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Our operations as of September 30, 2016 &#32;are comprised of the Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment and Other. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for reportable segment information. 

Pharmaceutical Distribution Segment 

The Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments, which include the operations of ABDC and AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group ("ABSG"). Servicing healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment's operations provide drug distribution and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. 

ABDC distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals (including specialty pharmaceutical products), over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced CSPs, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. ABDC also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. Additionally, ABDC delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. 

ABSG, through a number of operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical distribution and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. ABSG also distributes plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. Additionally, ABSG provides third party logistics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. 

Our use of the terms "specialty" and "specialty pharmaceutical products" refer to drugs used to treat complex diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. Specialty pharmaceutical products are part of complex treatment regimens for serious conditions and diseases that generally require ongoing clinical monitoring. We believe the terms "specialty" and "specialty pharmaceutical products" are used consistently by industry participants and our competitors. However, we cannot be certain that other distributors of specialty products define these and other similar terms in exactly the same manner as we do. 

Both ABDC and ABSG distribute specialty drugs to their customers, with the principal difference between these two operating segments being that ABSG operates distribution facilities that focus primarily on complex disease treatment regimens. Therefore, a product distributed from one of ABSG's distribution facilities results in revenue reported under ABSG, and a product distributed from one of ABDC's distribution centers results in revenue reported under ABDC. Essentially all of ABSG sales consist of specialty pharmaceutical products. ABDC sales of specialty pharmaceutical products have historically been a relatively small component of its overall revenue. 

Other 

Other consists of the AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services ("ABCS") operating segment, the World Courier operating segment, and the MWI operating segment. The results of operations of these operating segments are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure, and therefore, have been included in "Other" for the purpose of our reportable segment presentation. 

ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides commercialization support services, including reimbursement support programs, outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and co-pay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers. World Courier, which operates in over 50 &#32;countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. MWI is a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. 

Sales and Marketing. &#32;The majority of ABDC's sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. Customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. ABDC also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. ABDC's marketing organization designs and develops business management solutions for AmerisourceBergen healthcare provider customers. Tailored to specific groups, these programs can be further customized at the business unit or distribution facility level to adapt to local market conditions. ABDC's sales teams and marketing organization also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their 

Table of Contents 

needs. Our other operating segments each have independent sales forces and marketing organizations that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. In addition, we have a corporate marketing group that coordinates branding and other marketing activities across the Company. 

Customers. &#32;We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. Our manufacturing customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. 

Our two largest customers, WBA and Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts"), accounted for 30% &#32;and 16% , respectively, of our fiscal 2016 &#32;revenue. Our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("GPOs"), represented approximately 65% &#32;of fiscal 2016 &#32;revenue. The loss of any major customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. 

Suppliers. &#32;We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in fiscal 2016 . The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are good. The 10 largest suppliers in fiscal 2016 &#32;accounted for approximately 45% &#32;of our purchases. 

Information Systems. &#32;The ABDC operating segment operates its full-service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution facilities in the U.S. on a centralized enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system. ABDC's ERP system provides for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. All of our other operating segments operate the majority of their businesses on their own common, centralized ERP systems resulting in operating efficiencies as well as the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. We expect to make significant investments over the next few years to enhance and upgrade the ERP systems utilized by our other operating segments. 

Additionally, over the next couple of years, we intend to improve our entity-wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market. 

We will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. For example, in an effort to comply with future pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see Risk Factor - Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) , we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems. 

In fiscal 2016, ABDC began to make significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. These investments will continue into fiscal 2017. ABDC's systems are intended to strengthen customer relationships by allowing the customer to lower its operating costs and by providing a platform for a number of the basic and value-added services offered to our customers, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third party claims processing, real-time price and incentive updates, and price labels. 

ABDC processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically. However, it continues to make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. ABDC has a warehouse operating system, which is used to manage the majority of ABDC's transactional volume. The warehouse operating system has improved ABDC's productivity and operating leverage. 

A significant portion of our information technology activities relating to ABDC and our corporate functions are outsourced to IBM Global Services and other third party service providers. 

Competition 

We face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. Our largest competitors are McKesson Corporation ("McKesson") and Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal"). ABDC competes with both McKesson and Cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. The distribution and related service businesses in 

Table of Contents 

which ABSG engages are also highly competitive. ABSG's operating businesses face competition from a variety of competitors, including McKesson, Cardinal, FFF Enterprises, Henry Schein, Inc., and UPS Logistics, among others. Our ABCS, World Courier, and MWI businesses also face competition from a variety of competitors. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support. 

Intellectual Property 

We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the United States and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration. 

We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections. 

We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate. 

Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , we had approximately 19,000 &#32;employees, of which approximately 18,000 &#32;were full-time employees. Approximately 2% &#32;of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. If any of our employees in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe we have adequate contingency plans in place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to extensive oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. 

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the compounding, purchase, storage, and/or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances and entities that compound pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances must hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, compounding, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. Our Section 503B outsourcing facilities must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMPs") and are inspected by the FDA periodically to determine that we are complying with such GMPs. The DEA, FDA, and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers or Section 503B outsourcing facilities from distributing controlled substances, seize or recall products, and impose significant criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions. We have all necessary licenses or other regulatory approvals and believe that we are in compliance with all applicable pharmaceutical compounding and wholesale distribution requirements needed to conduct our current operations. 

We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute. The anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation. 

In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. At the federal level, Congress has enacted legislation to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system by establishing federal pedigree tracking standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level. This same legislation establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers and calls for enhanced regulation of CSPs, including heightened compliance, reporting, labeling, and inspection 

Table of Contents 

standards. The legislation also creates Section 503B outsourcing facilities as a new category for providers of CSPs, allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the FDA. Our CSP business locations have registered with the FDA as Section 503B outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current legislative requirements for such facilities. However, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new requirements, and any failure to comply may result in additional costs to bring our CSP facilities into compliance. These and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations. 

Federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs, through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. The Affordable Care Act contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act changed the formula for Medicaid federal upper limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to no less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price. Further, recent regulations require state Medicaid programs to implement payment mechanisms for branded prescription drugs which are consistent with pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs. These provisions could reduce prescription drug reimbursement levels under state Medicaid programs. 

As a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare delivery system in the United States can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. This process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the present healthcare delivery system. In addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate our distribution centers or Section 503B outsourcing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Any future reductions in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase drugs from us. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 

We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportion, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. 

The costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 

See "Risk Factors" below for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Health Information and Privacy Practices 

The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as such term is defined under the HIPAA regulations. Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access protected health information and are subject to the HIPAA regulations. Our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of HIPAA standards and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the HIPAA regulations. 

The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act ("HITECH Act"), enacted as part of the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA") strengthened federal privacy and security provisions governing protected health information. Among other things, the HITECH expanded certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") to enforce HIPAA, and directed HHS to publish more specific security standards. On January 25, 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of HHS published the HIPAA omnibus final rule ("HIPAA Final Rule"), which amended certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the HITECH Act, extending certain HIPAA obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. Certain components of our business act as "business associates" within the meaning of HIPAA and are subject to these additional obligations under the HIPAA Final Rule. 

Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of HIPAA, the HITECH Act and the implementing regulations. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate, 

Table of Contents 

and such regulations continue to evolve. Additionally, we need to comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of countries throughout the world in which we maintain operations, including but not limited to those in the European Union. 

There can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business. 

Available Information 

For more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com . The contents of the website are not part of this Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through the "Investor Relations" section of our website immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov . 

Table of Contents 

