 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

General 

ABM Industries Incorporated, which operates through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as &#8220;ABM,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;), is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions, customized by industry, that enable our clients to deliver exceptional facilities experiences. Our mission is to take care of the people, places, and spaces that matter to our clients. ABM&#8217;s comprehensive services include electrical and lighting, energy solutions, facilities engineering, HVAC and mechanical, janitorial, landscape and turf, mission critical solutions, and parking, which we provide through stand-alone or integrated solutions . We serve urban, suburban, and rural areas and properties of all sizes&#8212;from schools and commercial buildings to airports, data centers, hospitals, and manufacturing plants. 

Our history dates back to 1909, when American Building Maintenance Company began as a window washing company in San Francisco with one employee. In 1985, we were incorporated in Delaware under the name American Building Maintenance Industries, Inc., as the successor to the business originally founded in 1909. In 1994, we changed our name to ABM Industries Incorporated. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol ABM. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to years are to our fiscal year, which ends on October 31. 

Strategic Developments: 2020 &#32; Vision 

In September 2015, we announced our comprehensive transformation initiative (&#8220; 2020 &#32; Vision &#8221;) intended to drive long-term profitable growth through an industry-based go-to-market approach. Our 2020 &#32; Vision &#32;involves a three-phase approach: Phase 1, which we completed on November 1, 2016, involved a realignment of our organization; Phase 2 focuses on improvements to our operational framework to promote efficiencies and process enhancements; and in Phase 3, on the foundation of benefits realized from Phases 1 and 2, we anticipate accelerating growth with our industry-based go-to-market service model. During 2016, we made initial progress on the following four operating priorities, which we outlined at the onset of our journey. 

Organizational Realignment 

On November 1, 2016, we completed Phase 1 of our transformation initiative, establishing five industry groups and one Technical Solutions group, which spans the five industry groups: 

Through these groups, we will be able to offer a full complement of solutions, including janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking, on a stand-alone basis or in combination with each other or with specialized mechanical and electrical technical services. 

Consistent Excellence 

As Phase 2 of our transformation initiative matures, we will continue to identify, design, codify, and implement standard operating procedures (&#8220;SOPs&#8221;) that we anticipate will enable us to achieve more profitable growth across all of our industry groups and our Technical Solutions business. Our initial focus will be in the areas of account management, labor management, manager development, and safety and risk management. To achieve our objective of more profitable growth and best-in-class client service, we have created a Center of Excellence (&#8220;COE&#8221;) that will support the process of continuous improvement through best practices and drive these throughout our organization. 

Cost Optimization 

In 2016, we began to consolidate certain of our back office functions in our shared services center. As of November 1, 2016, we had transferred a portion of our back office functions to the shared services center, resulting in the cost savings described in Item 7 ., &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; We are also pursuing additional initiatives to reduce costs, such as a consolidated procurement process. 

Talent Development 

One of the key underpinnings of our &#32; 2020 &#32; Vision &#32; is the investment in people and the development of personnel. To that end, we have created a Talent Management Group that will be responsible for driving best-in-class talent development throughout the organization. 

2020 &#32; Vision : Strategic Acquisitions and Divestitures 

&#160; 

Our acquisitions of Air Serv Corporation (&#8220;Air Serv&#8221;) and HHA Services, Inc. (&#8220;HHA&#8221;), both on November 1, 2012, represented significant movement towards an industry-based approach to the delivery of facility solutions. Air Serv is a provider of facility solutions for airlines, airports, and freight companies, while HHA is a provider of food services, housekeeping, patient assistance, and plant maintenance to healthcare systems, hospitals, long-term care facilities, and retirement communities. In 2016, we acquired Westway Services Holdings (2014) Ltd. (&#8220;Westway&#8221;), a provider of technical services in the United Kingdom, which expanded our geographic range of these offerings. 

In October 2015, we divested our Security business in a sale of substantially all of the assets of this business to Universal Protection Service, L.P. for cash proceeds of $131.0 million . This business was identified as strategically not aligned with our 2020 &#32; Vision . In the fourth quarter of 2016, we exited our GreenHomes America franchising business and decided to sell our Government Services business. Our Government Services business provides specialty solutions in support of U.S. government entities, such as construction management and mission support. This business is currently part of our Building &#38; Energy Solutions segment, as described below, and under future segment reporting it will be a separate segment until it is sold. 

2020 &#32; Vision : &#32; 2017 and Beyond 

We expect to continue making progress on Phase 2 of our transformation initiative during 2017. During this time, our key priorities will be completing the migration of our back office functions to the shared services center, driving cost optimization initiatives through our procurement program, and implementing enterprise-wide SOPs through our Consistent Excellence work streams, including extending the use of external advisors for initial pricing and furthering of procurement efforts. By prioritizing these initiatives, we believe that we are building a foundation that should enable us to deliver leading industry-based facility solutions. 

Segment and Geographic Financial Information 

Current Segment Reporting 

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are currently separated into five segments: Janitorial, Facility Services, Parking, Building &#38; Energy Solutions, and Other (which includes our Air Serv business). Our principal operations are in the United States, and in 2016 , our U.S. operations generated approximately 94% &#32;of our revenues. For segment and geographical financial information, see Note 20 , &#8220;Segment and Geographic Information,&#8221; in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, for a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; in Item 1A. 

Services and Offerings within Segments 

Janitorial &#32; 

Our Janitorial segment provides a wide range of essential cleaning services for commercial office buildings, data centers, educational institutions, government buildings, health facilities, industrial buildings, retail stores, sport event facilities, and transportation hubs. These services include carpet cleaning and dusting, floor cleaning and finishing, window washing, and other building cleaning services. We typically provide our services pursuant to contracts with clients, usually obtained through a competitive bid process. Contracts in our Janitorial segment generally fall into the following categories: fixed-price arrangements, cost-plus arrangements, and arrangements relating to one-time supplemental services (known as tag services). The majority of the Janitorial segment &#8217; s contracts are fixed-price arrangements, which are more at risk to profit margin compression than cost-plus arrangements. In addition, profit 

margins on contracts tend to be inversely proportional to the size of the contract, as large-scale contracts tend to be more competitively priced than small or stand-alone agreements. 

Facility Services 

Our Facility Services segment provides onsite mechanical engineering and technical services and solutions relating to a broad range of facilities and infrastructure systems. Facilities we service include commercial office buildings, data centers, educational institutions, high technology manufacturing facilities, shopping centers, and transportation hubs. These services are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations. The majority of our Facility Services contracts are structured as cost-plus arrangements. Nearly all Facility Services contracts are obtained by competitive bidding. 

Parking 

Our Parking segment provides parking and transportation services for clients at various locations, including commercial office buildings, educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, sport event facilities, and transportation hubs. We operate our clients&#8217; parking facilities through three primary types of arrangements: parking reimbursement, leased location, and allowance location. Under the parking reimbursement arrangement, we manage the parking facility for a management fee and pass through the revenue and expenses associated with the facility to the owner. These revenues and expenses are reported in equal amounts for costs reimbursed from our managed locations. Under leased location arrangements, we generally pay to the property owner a fixed amount of rent, plus a percentage of revenues derived from monthly and transient parkers. We retain all revenues and we are responsible for most operating expenses incurred. Under allowance location arrangements, we are paid a fixed or hourly fee to provide parking services, and we are responsible for certain operating expenses, as specified in the contract. 

Building &#38; Energy Solutions 

Our Building &#38; Energy Solutions segment provides custom energy solutions, electrical, HVAC, lighting, and other general maintenance and repair services for clients in the public and private sectors. These services, which include bundled energy solutions, energy efficiency upgrades, installations, preventative maintenance, retro-commissioning, and retrofits, are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations. The operations of the recently acquired Westway business are included in this segment. 

Building &#38; Energy Solutions also provides specialty solutions in support of U.S. government entities, such as: construction management; energy efficiency upgrades; healthcare support; leadership development; military base operations; and other mission support. As referenced in &#8220; 2020 &#32; Vision : Strategic Acquisitions and Divestitures, &#8221; we decided to sell our Government Services business and classified it as held for sale in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

This segment also provides facility management and environmental services, food and nutrition services, healthcare technology management services, and patient and guest services in support of healthcare systems and hospitals. Furthermore, it franchises certain operations under franchise agreements relating to our Linc Service and TEGG brands. In 2016 , 3% &#32;of this segment&#8217;s revenue was attributable to these franchised operations. 

Contracts for this segment are structured as cost-plus arrangements, fixed-price arrangements, fixed-price repair and refurbishment arrangements, and franchise arrangements. These contracts can vary widely from industry to industry. We also offer certain clients guaranteed energy savings on installed equipment, including Energy Savings Performance Contracts (&#8220;ESPC&#8221;) with the federal government. Under these arrangements, we agree to develop, design, engineer, and construct a project and guarantee that the project will satisfy agreed-upon performance standards. Historically, we have not incurred any material losses in connection with these guarantees. 

In 2016 , sales to the U.S. government accounted for approximately 22% of revenues in the Building &#38; Energy Solutions segment. 

Other 

Our Other segment provides facility solutions to airlines and airports related to access control, aircraft cabin cleaning, certain shuttle bus operations, and passenger assistance. Two clients accounted for approximately 50% &#32;of revenues for this segment in 2016 . We typically provide services to clients in this segment under master services agreements. These agreements are typically re-bid upon renewal and are generally structured as fixed-price 

arrangements, transaction-price arrangements, and hourly arrangements. Some contracts include both a fixed fee component and a variable pricing component. 

Future Segment Reporting Under Our 2020 &#32; Vision 

The changes described above relating to our 2020 &#32; Vision and our strategic transformation will result in changes to our reportable segments in 2017. These new segments, described below, align with our new organizational structure. 

Reportable Segment 

Description 

Business &#38; Industry (&#8220;B&#38;I&#8221;) 

B&#38;I represents our largest reportable segment. It encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services to commercial real estate industries, including sports and entertainment venues as well as industrial and manufacturing sites. 

Aviation 

Aviation includes Air Serv (our Other segment) and our services supporting airlines and airports. A wide array of services that support the needs of our clients are included in this segment, ranging from parking and janitorial to passenger assistance, air cabin maintenance, and transportation. 

Emerging Industries Group 

Our Emerging Industries Group encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services for Education, High Tech, and Healthcare industries. 

Technical Solutions 

Technical Solutions provides specialized mechanical and electrical services. These services can also be leveraged for cross-selling within B&#38;I, Aviation, and Emerging Industry Groups, both domestically and internationally (through our U.K.-based acquisition of Westway). 

Government Services 

Our held-for-sale Government Services business provides specialty solutions in support of U.S. government entities, such as: construction management; energy efficiency upgrades; healthcare support; leadership development; military base operations; and other mission support services. 

Service Marks, Trademarks, and Trade Names 

We hold various service marks, trademarks, and trade names, such as &#8220;ABM,&#8221; &#8220;ABM Building Value,&#8221; &#8220;ABM Greencare,&#8221; &#8220;ABM MPower,&#8221; &#8220;Linc Service,&#8221; and &#8220;TEGG,&#8221; which we deem important to our marketing activities, our business, and, with respect to certain of these, the franchising activities conducted by our Building &#38; Energy Solutions segment. 

Dependence on Significant Client 

No client accounted for more than 10% &#32;of our consolidated revenues during 2016 , 2015 , or 2014 . 

Competition 

We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price, quality of service, and ability to anticipate and respond to industry changes. A majority of our revenue is derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, industry expertise, and financial strength. The low cost of entry in the facility services business results in a very competitive market. We mainly compete with regional and local owner-operated companies that may have more acute vision into local markets and significantly lower labor and overhead costs, providing them with a competitive advantage. We also compete indirectly with companies that can perform for themselves one or more of the services we provide. The competitive environment for each of our businesses is described below. For a discussion of risks associated with competition, see &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; in Item 1A. 

Janitorial 

Our Janitorial business competes with local, regional, and national providers. On a national basis, we compete with the operating divisions of a few large, diversified facility services companies. We also compete indirectly with building owners and tenants who can internally perform one or more of the services we provide. These building owners and tenants have an increased advantage in locations where outsourced services are subject to sales tax. Competitors of our Janitorial business include: Able Building Maintenance; Aramark; Cushman &#38; Wakefield; GCA Services Group, Inc.; Harvard Maintenance; and ISS. 

Facility Services 

Competition related to our Facility Services segment is based on technical expertise, price, and quality of service. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for persons having the necessary skills and experience. On a national basis, we compete with the operating divisions of many large, diversified facility services companies. Competitors of our Facility Services business include: Able Building Maintenance; Aramark; CBRE Group, Inc.; and Cushman &#38; Wakefield. 

Parking &#32; &#160; 

Our Parking business competes with local, regional, and national parking management companies. On a national basis, we compete with a small number of parking management companies, including LAZ Parking and SP Plus Corporation. We compete directly with many local and regional parking companies. We also compete indirectly with aviation service companies, hotels, municipalities, and other entities that manage their own parking facilities, potentially eliminating those facilities as management or lease opportunities. We also face significant competition in our efforts to provide ancillary services, such as shuttle transportation services and parking enforcement, because several large companies specialize in these services. 

Building &#38; Energy Solutions &#32; 

Competition related to our Building &#38; Energy Solutions segment is based on technical expertise, the availability of qualified personnel and managers, service innovation, reputation, past contract performance, industry experience, geographic reach, mobility, price, and quality of service. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for persons having the necessary skills and experience. We compete with the operating divisions of many large, diversified facility services companies. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular geographic areas. 

We face intense competition for available U.S. government business. Current trends in the U.S. government contracting process, which include fewer sole source awards, more emphasis on cost competitiveness, and increased set-aside awards for small and/or disadvantaged businesses, have increased competition for U.S. government contracts and increased pricing pressure. The U.S. government&#8217;s use of set-aside awards makes it advantageous for us to increase the percentage of business we pursue through strategic joint ventures. 

Within our healthcare support services business, we face significant competition from several large, global competitors as well as hospitals and health systems providing &#8220;in-house services.&#8221; 

Competitors of our Building &#38; Energy Solutions business include: Aramark; Comfort Systems USA, Inc.; Delta Tucker Holdings, Inc.; Emcor Group, Inc.; IAP Worldwide Services, Inc.; J&#38;J Worldwide Services; and Siemens AG. 

Other 

Competition related to the Air Serv business is based on reputation, expertise, price, and quality of service. We experience competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis with a large and diverse set of aviation services companies. We also compete indirectly with airlines that manage their own aviation services on an &#8220;insourced basis,&#8221; as that eliminates those operations as opportunities for us. Competitors of our Air Serv business include: Command Security Corporation; G2 Secure Staff, LLC; ISS; John Menzies plc; Mitie Group plc; OCS Group Limited; Prospect Aviation Corporation; SMS Holdings Corp; and Swissport International, LTD. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing activities include direct interactions with prospective and existing clients, pricing, proposal management, and customer relationship management by dedicated business development teams, operations personnel, and management. These activities are executed by branch and regional teams assigned to our industry groups and are supported by centralized sales support teams, inside sales teams, corporate marketing personnel, and our COE teams with marketing campaigns, lead management, training, sales tools, and proposal systems, all governed by standard operating procedures. 

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance 

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, and/or local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. From time 

to time we are involved in environmental matters at certain of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to locations or operations in the United States or abroad has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Employees 

As of October 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 110,000 &#32;employees. 

Available Information 

We are required to file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge on our internet site at www.abm.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We provide references to our website for your convenience, but our website does not constitute, and should not be viewed as, a part of this Annual Report, and our website is not incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

Executive Officers of Registrant 

Executive Officers on December 21, 2016 &#32; Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Principal Occupations and Business Experience 

Scott Salmirs 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer of ABM since March 2015; Executive Vice President of ABM from September 2014 to March 2015, with global responsibility for ABM&#8217;s aviation division and all international activities; Executive Vice President of ABM&#8217;s Onsite Services division focused on the Northeast from 2003 to September 2014; Member of the Board of Directors of ABM since January 2015. 

D. Anthony Scaglione 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ABM since April 2015; Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions of ABM from January 2012 to April 2015; Vice President and Treasurer of ABM from June 2009 to January 2012; Chairman of the Board of the Association for Financial Professionals (AFP), the professional society that represents finance executives across the globe, from November 2014 to October 2016. 

James P. McClure 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Operating Officer of ABM since February 2016; Executive Vice President of ABM since September 2002. 

Sarah Hlavinka McConnell 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of ABM since September 2014; Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of ABM from May 2008 to September 2014; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of ABM from September 2007 to May 2008; Member of the Board of Directors of Cigna Life Insurance Company of New York since February 2013. On December 14, 2016, Ms. McConnell informed the Company that she will resign on January 17, 2017. 

Dean A. Chin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, and Corporate Controller of ABM since June 2010; Vice President and Assistant Controller of ABM from June 2008 to June 2010. 

David R. Goodes 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of ABM since January 2016; Executive Vice President Human Resources of Hess Retail Corporation during 2014; Vice President, Human Resources, Marketing &#38; Refining of Hess Corporation from March 2011 to December 2013; Director, Human Resources of Hess Corporation from October 2005 to March 2011. 

Scott Giacobbe 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President of ABM&#8217;s U.S. Technical Solutions since November 2010. 

Rene Jacobsen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President of ABM&#8217;s Business &#38; Industry Group since February 2016; Executive Vice President of ABM&#8217;s West Region from April 2012 to February 2016; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Temco Service Industries from November 2007 to April 2012. 

Thomas J. Marano 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President of ABM&#8217;s Aviation Group since February 2016; Executive Vice President and President of ABM&#8217;s acquired Air Serv business from November 2012 to February 2016; Chief Executive Officer of Air Serv Corporation from January 2006 to November 2012. 

