 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a leading provider of temporary mechanical circulatory support devices and we offer a continuum of care to heart failure patients. We develop, manufacture and market proprietary products that are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow to the coronary arteries and end-organs and/or temporarily performing the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists, the electrophysiology lab, the hybrid lab and in the heart surgery suite by heart surgeons. A physician may use our devices for patients who are in need of hemodynamic support prophylactically or emergently before, during or after angioplasty or heart surgery procedures. We believe that heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome for patients experiencing heart failure because it enables patients to go home with their own native heart and restores their quality of life. In addition, we believe that for the care of such patients, heart recovery is the most cost-effective solution for the healthcare system.

Our strategic focus and the driver of the majority of our revenue growth is the market penetration of our family of Impella&#174; products. The Impella product portfolio, which includes the Impella 2.5&#8482;, Impella CP&#174;, Impella RP&#174;, Impella LD&#8482; and Impella 5.0&#8482;, has supported thousands of patients in the U.S. We expect that most of our product and service revenues in the near future will be from our Impella products. Revenues from our non-Impella products, largely focused on the heart surgery suite, have been decreasing over the past several years as we have strategically shifted our sales and marketing efforts towards our Impella products and the cath lab.

In March 2015, we received the first of two PMA approvals from the FDA for the Impella 2.5 product, for its use during elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures. With this PMA indication, the Impella 2.5 product is the first hemodynamic support device proven safe and effective by the FDA indicated for use during high-risk PCI procedures. In August 2015, we submitted a PMA supplement requesting to expand our current Impella 2.5 PMA approval to include additional indications for the Impella 2.5 product and also to include all of our other Impella devices (Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD) that support the left side of the heart. These submissions are for a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery and for a longer duration of support. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. In this setting, the Impella heart pumps stabilize the patient&#8217;s hemodynamics, unload the left ventricle, perfuse the end organs and allow for recovery of the native heart. 

We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella suite of products for additional indications.

Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP and Impella RP products also have CE Mark approval and Health Canada approval which allows us to market these devices in the European Union and Canada. We have submitted an application for the Impella 2.5 and Impella 5.0 devices in Japan and we are hopeful of receiving regulatory approval in calendar 2016.

Corporate Background

Our Company was founded in 1981 and we are currently incorporated in Delaware and trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol ABMD. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923. Our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.abiomed.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the SEC. ABIOMED, Inc. has a Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy that applies to all of its directors, officers, and employees. A paper copy of this document may be obtained free of charge by writing to the Company&#8217;s Chief Compliance Officer at our principal executive office or by email at ir@abiomed.com. Our audit committee, governance and nominating committee and compensation committee charters are also posted on our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file or furnish with the SEC, at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Moreover, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding reports that we file or furnish electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov .

&#160;

Our Products 

Impella 2.5 &#8482; 

The Impella 2.5 catheter is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain their circulation. The Impella 2.5 catheter can be quickly inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the circulatory system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work and provide flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 is introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

The Impella 2.5 product received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 from the FDA for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. In March 2015, we received the first of two PMA approvals from the FDA for the Impella 2.5 product, for its use during elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures. With this PMA indication, the Impella 2.5 product became the first hemodynamic support device proven safe and effective by the FDA for use during high-risk PCI procedures. Under this first PMA approval, the Impella 2.5 is a temporary (up to six hours) ventricular support device indicated for use during high-risk PCI performed in elective or urgent hemodynamically stable patients with severe coronary artery disease and depressed left ventricular ejection fraction, when a heart team, including a cardiac surgeon, has determined high-risk PCI is the appropriate therapeutic option. Use of the Impella 2.5 device in these patients may prevent hemodynamic instability that may occur during planned temporary coronary occlusions and may reduce periprocedural and post-procedural adverse events. The product labeling allows for the clinical decision to leave the Impella 2.5 product in place beyond the intended duration of up to six hours due to unforeseen circumstances. Pursuant to our PMA approval, we are conducting a single-arm, post-approval study on the Impella 2.5 product, collecting data on high-risk PCI patients. The study is a prospective, multi-center study comprised of 369 patients from up to 70 sites supported with the Impella 2.5 system. The Impella 2.5 device has CE Mark approval in Europe for up to five days of use and is approved for use in over 40 countries.

In August 2015, we submitted a PMA supplement requesting to expand our current Impella 2.5 PMA approval to include additional indications for the Impella 2.5 product and also to include our other Impella devices (Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD) that support the left side of the heart. These submissions are for a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery and for a longer duration of support. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. In this setting, the Impella heart pumps stabilize the patient&#8217;s hemodynamics, unload the left ventricle, perfuse the end organs and allow for recovery of the native heart. 

The data submitted to the FDA in support of the PMA supplement included an analysis of 415 patients from the RECOVER 1 study and the U.S. Impella registry (cVAD Registry&#8482;), as well as a literature review using the Impella products in 692 patients from 17 clinical studies. A safety analysis reviewed over 24,000 Impella patients who had used an Impella device, as documented in the FDA medical device reporting, or MDR, database, which draws from seven years of experience using the Impella products in the U.S. We believe this is the most comprehensive review ever submitted to the FDA for circulatory support in the cardiogenic shock population. 

A November 2011 update to the American College of Cardiology Foundation (ACCF) /American Heart Association (AHA) Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions Guidelines for Percutaneous Coronary Intervention , for the first time, included Impella devices in both the emergent and prophylactic hemodynamic support settings. In addition, a December 2012 update to the AHA&#8217;s Recommendations for the Use of Mechanical Circulatory Support: Device Strategies and Patient Selection recommended Impella devices for use in mechanical circulatory support; a December 2012 update to the ACCF / AHA Guidelines for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction , or &#8220;STEMI,&#8221; included the Impella 2.5 device for use in patients requiring urgent coronary artery bypass grafting with STEMI and in treatment of patients with cardiogenic shock complications after STEMI. A January 2013 update to the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation Guidelines for Mechanical Circulatory Support included Impella devices for the first time for patients with multi-organ failure. In addition, Impella devices were included in a January 2013 update to the ACCF / AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction and a September 2014 AHA / the American College of Cardiology Task Force on Practice Guidelines for the Management of Patients with Non-ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes .

The Impella 2.5 device has CE Mark approval in Europe for up to five days of use. Impella 2.5 also has Health Canada approval which allows us to market the device in Canada. We have submitted an application for the Impella 2.5 in Japan and we are hopeful of receiving regulatory approval in calendar 2016. 

&#160;

Impella C P &#174; 

In September 2012, we announced that the Impella CP received 510(k) clearance from the FDA. The Impella CP provides blood flow of approximately one liter more per minute than the Impella 2.5 and is primarily used by either interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab or by surgeons in the heart surgery suite. 

In August 2015, we submitted a PMA supplement requesting to expand our current Impella 2.5 PMA approval to include additional indications for the Impella 2.5 product and also to include our other Impella devices (Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD) that support the left side of the heart. These submissions are for a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery and for a longer duration of support. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. In this setting, the Impella heart pumps stabilize the patient&#8217;s hemodynamics, unload the left ventricle, perfuse the end organs and allow for recovery of the native heart. 

Pursuant to the April 2016 PMA approval, the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD catheters, in conjunction with the Automated Impella Controller, are temporary ventricular support devices intended for short term use (&#8804; 4 days for the Impella 2.5 and Impella CP, and &#8804; 6 days for the Impella 5.0 and LD) and indicated for the treatment of ongoing cardiogenic shock that occurs immediately (&#60; 48 hours) following acute myocardial infarction or open heart surgery as a result of isolated left ventricular failure that is not responsive to optimal medical management and conventional treatment measures. The intent of the Impella system therapy is to reduce ventricular work and to provide the circulatory support necessary to allow heart recovery and early assessment of residual myocardial function. Optimal medical management and convention treatment measures include volume loading and use of pressors and inotropes, with or without an intraortic ballon pump.

We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella suite of products for additional marketing indications. This would include expanding the current PMA approval that we have for the Impella 2.5 product to the Impella CP product for elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures. 

Impella 5.0 &#8482; and Impella LD &#8482; 

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5.

The Impella 5.0 pump can be inserted into the left ventricle via femoral cut down or through the axillary artery. The Impella 5.0 pump is passed into the ascending aorta, across the valve and into the left ventricle. The Impella LD pump is similar to the Impella 5.0 pump, but is implanted directly into the ascending aorta through an aortic graft. Both of these procedures are normally performed with the assistance of heart surgeons in the surgery suite. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD products can pump up to five liters of blood per minute, providing full circulatory support.

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices originally received 510(k) clearance in April 2009, for circulatory support for up to six hours. In August 2015, we submitted a PMA supplement requesting to expand our current Impella 2.5 PMA approval to include additional indications for the Impella 2.5 product and also to include our other Impella devices (Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD) that support the left side of the heart. These submissions were for a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery and for a longer duration of support. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. In this setting, the Impella heart pumps stabilize the patient&#8217;s hemodynamics, unload the left ventricle, perfuse the end organs and allow for recovery of the native heart. 

Pursuant to the April 2016 PMA approval, the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD catheters, in conjunction with the Automated Impella Controller, are temporary ventricular support devices intended for short term use (&#8804; 4 days for the Impella 2.5 and Impella CP, and &#8804; 6 days for the Impella 5.0 and LD) and indicated for the treatment of ongoing cardiogenic shock that occurs immediately (&#60; 48 hours) following acute myocardial infarction or open heart surgery as a result of isolated left ventricular failure that is not responsive to optimal medical management and conventional treatment measures. The intent of the Impella system therapy is to reduce ventricular work and to provide the circulatory support necessary to allow heart recovery and early assessment of residual myocardial function. Optimal medical management and convention treatment measures include volume loading and use of pressors and inotropes, with or without IABP.

We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella suite of products for additional clinical indications.

&#160;

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices have CE Mark approval in Europe for up to ten days&#8217; duration and are approved for use in over 40 countries . We have submitted an application for the Impella 5.0 in Japan and we are hopeful of receiving regulatory approval in calendar 2016. 

Impella RP &#174; 

The Impella RP is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of flow per minute and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate for right side heart failure. The Impella RP is the first percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. The Impella RP device is approved to provide support of the right heart during times of acute failure for certain patients who have received a left ventricle assist device or have suffered heart failure due to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, or a failed heart transplant.

In November 2012, the Impella RP product received U.S. investigational device exemption, or IDE, approval from the FDA for use in RECOVER RIGHT, a pivotal clinical study in the U.S. In March 2014, we completed enrollment of 30 patients that presented signs of right side heart failure, required hemodynamic support, and were capable of being treated in the catheterization lab or cardiac surgery suite. The study collected safety and effectiveness data on the percutaneous use of the Impella RP product and was submitted to the FDA in support of a Humanitarian Device Exemption, or &#8220;HDE,&#8221; submission. An HDE is similar to a PMA application but is intended for patient populations of 4,000 or less per year in the U.S. and is subject to certain profit and use restrictions. An HDE approval requires demonstration of the safety and probable benefit of the product, which is a lower standard than is applied to a PMA. In order to receive an HDE, there must be no comparable devices approved under a PMA that are available to treat the targeted population. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after review and approval by the hospital&#8217;s Institutional Review Board. 

In January 2015, we received FDA approval for the Impella RP product under an HDE. As part of the HDE approval, we are required to conduct two post approval studies for the Impella RP product. One includes an adult patient population of 30 patients and the other, a pediatric patient population for a maximum of 15 patients. These studies will be conducted to monitor the post-market safety and probable benefit of the Impella RP device. Both studies will be single-arm multicenter studies that will follow the respective patients at 30 and 180 days post device explant. We have completed 18 patients to date on the adult patient population study and we expect to complete this study in fiscal 2017. In April 2014, the Impella RP product received CE Mark approval which allows for commercial sales of Impella RP in the European Union and other countries that require a CE Mark approval for commercial sales.

AB5000 &#8482; 

We manufacture and sell the AB5000 Circulatory Support System for the temporary support of acute heart failure patients in profound shock, including patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, or myocarditis. The AB5000 device was approved by the FDA in 2003. We believe the AB5000 is the only commercially available cardiac assist device that is approved by the FDA for all indications where heart recovery is the desired outcome, including patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. Revenues from the AB5000 device have been declining in recent years and we expect the AB5000 to be a smaller part of our business in the future as we focus our efforts on the Impella family of products.

ECP

In July 2014, we acquired all of the issued shares of ECP Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, or ECP, a German limited liability company, for $13.0 million in cash, with additional potential payments up to a maximum of $15.0 million based on the achievement of certain technical, regulatory and commercial milestones. In connection with our acquisition of ECP, ECP acquired all of the issued shares of AIS GmbH Aachen Innovative Solutions, or AIS, a German limited liability company, for $2.8 million in cash which was provided by us. AIS, based in Aachen, Germany, holds certain intellectual property useful to ECP&#8217;s business, and, prior to being acquired by ECP, had licensed such intellectual property to ECP. 

ECP, based in Berlin, Germany, is engaged in research, development, prototyping and the pre-serial production of a percutaneous expandable catheter pump which increases blood circulation from the heart with an external drive shaft. The ECP pump is designed for blood flow of &#62;3 liters/minute. It is intended to be delivered on the standard Impella 9 Fr catheter and will include an 18 Fr expandable inflow in the left ventricle with a smooth membrane crossing the left ventricle. The ECP pump is still in early stages of research and development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale.

&#160;

Summary of Recent Financial Performance 

For fiscal 2016, we recognized net income of $38.1 million, or $0.90 per basic share and $0.85 per diluted share, compared to $113.7 million, or $2.80 per basic share and $2.65 per diluted share for the prior fiscal year. The decrease in our net income for fiscal 2016 was due to an increase in income tax provision for fiscal 2016. Our net income for fiscal 2015 included an income tax benefit of $84.9 million, primarily due to the release of our valuation allowance on certain of our deferred tax assets. In fiscal 2016, we recorded income tax expense of $27.7 million on income before taxes of $65.8 million. 

Income from operations for fiscal 2016 increased by $36.4 million, or 127%, to $65.1 million in fiscal 2016 from $28.7 million in fiscal 2015. This resulted in operating margin increasing to 19.8% in fiscal 2016 from 12.4% in fiscal 2015 . The increase in income from operations and operating margin for fiscal 2016 was driven primarily by higher Impella product revenue due to greater utilization of our Impella products in the U.S. and Europe and increased gross margins due primarily to higher manufacturing product volume and improved efficiencies in manufacturing production.

Our Markets 

According to the AHA, Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2016 Update Report, coronary heart disease, or CHD, causes approximately one of every seven deaths in the U.S. CHD is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. CHD leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body&#8217;s major organs. In 2013, CHD mortality was approximately 370,000 Americans. Each year, an estimated 660,000 Americans have a new coronary attack (defined as first hospitalized myocardial infarction or coronary heart disease death) and approximately 305,000 have a recurrent attack. It is estimated that an additional 150,000 &#8220;silent&#8221; first myocardial infarctions occur each year. 

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right-side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure. 

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis (a viral attack of the heart), or from those suffering from an impaired ability of the heart to pump blood after a heart attack or heart surgery. According to a 2008 AHA Circulation report, Contemporary Reviews in Cardiovascular Medicine: Cardiogenic Shock , approximately 5 to 8% of the patients who are hospitalized for a heart attack suffer from cardiogenic shock and approximately 50% of those patients die. These patients typically require treatments involving the use of mechanical circulatory support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. Many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them from entering into profound shock. 

There are a few primary types of devices used in the cath lab and surgery suite in the U.S. for circulatory support for pre-shock and profound shock patients: intra-aortic balloons, or IABs, percutaneous assist devices, and surgical ventricular assist devices, or VADs. 

An IAB is an inflatable balloon inserted via a catheter into a patient&#8217;s circulatory system and is inflated and deflated in the aorta. This is used as an initial line of therapy in the cath lab or the surgery suite for patients with diminished heart function. However, IABs typically provide only limited enhancement and depend on the patient&#8217;s own heart to generate the majority of the patient&#8217;s blood flow. In addition, IABs are often required to be used in conjunction with inotropes or other drugs to stimulate heart muscle ejection. The use of these drugs, however, increases the risk of mortality. Further, the clinical efficacy of IABs has recently come into question due to the conclusions of the randomized, prospective, open-label, multicenter &#8220;SHOCK II&#8221; Trial. The conclusion of the trial was that the use of IAB counterpulsation did not significantly reduce 30-day mortality in patients with cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction for whom an early revascularization strategy was planned. Further, IABs have limited effectiveness in patients that are arrhythmic and/or in cardiogenic shock and published reports have indicated that IABs do not reduce mortality for patients in cardiogenic shock. 

Percutaneous assist devices and VADs are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Historically, VADs have been highly invasive and require implantation in the surgery suite. Percutaneous 

&#160;

assist devices allow for less invasive placement and removal, and can be done through a small puncture in the leg in the cath lab, electrophysiology lab, or operating room. The use of surgically placed VADs generally falls into three sub-categories: recovery, bridge-to-transplant and destination therapy. 

Recovery VADs are designed to enable the patient&#8217;s heart to rest and potentially recover so that the patient can return home with his or her own heart. Because recovery is the goal, these devices are designed to minimize damage to heart tissue and are removed once the patient&#8217;s heart has recovered. If possible, recovery of a patient&#8217;s heart is generally preferred to transplantation or prolonged device implantation, both of which have significant side effects for the patient and increase the risk of mortality. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for patients, since it generally lowers the overall relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy or repeated hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs. 

Research and Product Development 

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support through the development of many product platforms to support heart patients. This includes our Impella platform and AB5000 system that we currently market and other technologies that we previously supported, such as our BVS system and AbioCor program. We also continue to work on developing new technologies as well, such as the ECP development program. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products for partial and full circulatory support to treat acute heart failure patients. We intend to continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing a broader portfolio of products across the continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of circulatory care. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development some of which integrate the Impella technology platform. 

As of March 31, 2016, our research and development staff consisted of 152 full-time employees. We expended $49.8 million, $36.0 million and $30.7 million on research and development in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials, including ongoing clinical studies for our Impella products. 

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service 

As of March 31, 2016, our worldwide sales, clinical support, marketing and field service teams included 303 full-time employees, 266 of whom are in the U.S. and Canada and 37 of whom are in Europe and Japan. In recent years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel in the U.S and Europe. 

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses and other personnel with considerable experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training current and prospective customers in the use of our products. 

International sales (sales outside the U.S., primarily in Europe) accounted for 8%, 10% and 9% of total product revenue during fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Manufacturing 

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our Aachen facility performs final assembly and manufactures most of our Impella disposable products, including the Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP and Impella RP devices. Our Danvers facility manufactures certain Impella subsystems and accessories, including our Automated Impella Console, or AIC, our console for our Impella products. Beginning in fiscal 2015, we started producing the Impella CP product in our Danvers facility. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with components used in our existing products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing for components and circuit cards within our consoles. 

We believe our existing manufacturing facilities give us the necessary physical capacity to produce sufficient quantities of products to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months based on our current revenue forecast. We have recently expanded our Impella manufacturing capacity in both our Aachen and Danvers facilities to support the growing demand for our Impella products. We expect to continue to expand our Impella manufacturing capacity as we support expected increasing sale of our Impella products. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities are certified by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and operate under the FDA&#8217;s good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices set forth in the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. 

&#160;

Intellectual Property 

We have developed significant know-how and proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality agreements and contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval. 

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the Impella products, AB5000, and other products under development, such as ECP, is in the form of trade secrets, rather than patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. 

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Our U.S. patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2032 and our foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2033. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third parties, we are generally required to pay royalties. 

Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent applications may not be issued. Others may hold or obtain patents that cover aspects or uses of our innovations. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent or practice our innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less protection than U.S. patents, they may not adequately protect our technology. 

The medical device industry is characterized by a large number of patents and by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology, which may also be costly and time consuming. 

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government. 

Competition 

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. Other advances in medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete. Among our medical device competitors are Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular), Teleflex Inc., Abbott Laboratories, St. Jude Medical, Inc., HeartWare International Inc., Terumo Heart, Inc. and CardiacAssist Inc. 

Our customers are hospitals that have limited budgets. As a result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain and protect reimbursement, maintain cost effectiveness for our products, and supply commercial quantities of our product to meet customer demand. 

Third-Party Reimbursement 

Our products and services are generally purchased by healthcare institutions that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance 

&#160;

programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient&#8217;s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer and by jurisdiction. 

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, is responsible for administering the Medicare program in the U.S. and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Medicare&#8217;s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business because a large percentage of the population for which our products are intended includes elderly individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party payers will continue to cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate. 

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology. Medicare generally reimburses healthcare institutions in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient&#8217;s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as International Classification of Diseases, or ICD, and medical severity diagnosis-related groups, or MS DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity and complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled with the MS DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, repaired or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital&#8217;s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs. 

The Impella 2.5 heart pump is supported by clinical guidelines and has been eligible to be reimbursed in the U.S. by the CMS under ICD-9-CM code 37.68 since 2008 for multiple indications, including high-risk PCI. Medicare transitioned from ICD-9 to a new system, ICD-10, in October 2015. In July 2015, CMS reconfirmed Impella reimbursement levels and confirmed that the existing Impella MS-DRG mapping will remain unchanged in the transition from ICD-9 to ICD-10 in October 2015. CMS has stated that the transition to ICD-10 codes was intended to provide more descriptive information about procedures used to deliver care to patients, and is not a mechanism for remapping DRGs or changing payment. Recently CMS updated their description for Impella to use 5A02(1,2)1D: &#8220;Assistance with Cardiac Output Using Impeller Pump,&#8221; which continues to map to DRG 216-221. We believe this is an accurate description/DRG assignment and do not expect changes. However future updates before and after implementation are possible. 

Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant, remove, replace or repair our products are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of LVADs when used for support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as destination therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support, when the use is consistent with FDA approval and FDA-approved labeling instructions, as applicable. Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-10 for procedures and MS DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third-party insurer. Our Impella products are also covered by commercial and/or Medicare plans of many third-party insurers including Aetna, Humana, Cigna, HCSC Blue Cross Blue Shield, and United Healthcare. 

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal, replacement or repair of our approved products are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS. 

In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, reducing benefit coverage, requiring second opinions prior to major surgery, negotiating reductions to charges on patient bills, promoting healthier lifestyle initiatives and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost-containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices. 

&#160;

Government Regulatio n 

The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. 

Premarket Regulation 

In the U.S., the FDA strictly regulates medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its regulations. The FDA classifies U.S. medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Class III devices are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have not been found to be substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices. Class III devices must generally receive PMA approval by the FDA before they may be marketed. 

The PMA approval pathway requires that the applicant demonstrate to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction, based on valid scientific evidence, that there is a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. During the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study data. Prior to approving a PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where supporting studies were conducted. The facility inspection evaluates the company&#8217;s compliance with the QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with good clinical practice standards, including, for studies conducted under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, the requirements of FDA&#8217;s IDE regulations. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to review the data presented in the PMA. The panel&#8217;s recommendation is given substantial weight, but is not binding on the agency. By regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application not requiring an advisory panel meeting, and 320 days to review a PMA application that does require an advisory panel meeting. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months, but sometimes longer. Upon completion of its review, FDA will either approve or deny the PMA. 

If the FDA&#8217;s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved and the device may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA may approve a PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling and promotion, and post-market collection of clinical data. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the PMA approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. Even if a device receives PMA approval, the FDA may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a device may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. 

Certain Class III devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, known as pre-amendment Class III devices, and devices that were determined to be substantially equivalent to them, have been allowed to be brought to market through the 510(k) process until the FDA, by regulation, calls for PMA applications for those devices types. The Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices all received 510(k) clearance based on substantial equivalence to a pre-amendment Class III device. 

In 2009, the FDA began a process referred to as the &#8220;515 Program Initiative&#8221; to complete the process of requiring PMAs for Class III. This initiative requires FDA either to down-classify, or to require PMAs, for the remaining pre-amendment Class III device types for which FDA had not yet called for PMAs. Class I and II devices are generally considered to be lower risk than Class III devices and require either clearance through the FDA&#8217;s 510(k) premarket notification process (as is the case of most Class II devices) or do not require any premarket review or notification (as is the case for nearly all Class I devices). Class III devices, however, are typically higher risk or novel and require approval through a PMA, which is a more costly and uncertain premarket pathway than the 510(k) premarket notification process. 

In December 2012, as part of the FDA&#8217;s 515 Program Initiative, an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of Class III status for temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella products. The panel&#8217;s recommendation of Class III for this category of device is consistent with the current Class III designation for these device types. The FDA accepted the panel&#8217;s recommendation and, in June 2015, issued a final order requiring PMAs for this device type. We worked with the FDA on a PMA application for our Impella 2.5 pump for use during high-risk PCI procedures. Under the 515 Program Initiative, we are permitted to continue to market our Impella products pursuant to the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient time to allow for the submission and review of PMA applications relating to our Impella products. 

&#160;

In March 2015, we received a PMA approval from the FDA for our Impella 2.5 product , during elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures. The Impella 2.5 , is the first hemodynamic support device to receive a PMA indication for use during high-risk PCI procedures, demonstrating its safety and effectiveness for this complex patient population. Under the PMA , the Impella 2.5 is approved as a temporary (up to six hours) ventricular support dev ice indicated for use during high-risk PCI performed in elective or urgent hemodynamically stable patients with severe coronary artery disease and depressed left ventricular ejection fraction, when a heart team, including a cardiac surgeon, has determined high-risk PCI is the appropriate therapeutic option. Use of the Impella 2.5 device in these patients may prevent hemodynamic instability that may occur during planned temporary coronary occlusions and may reduce periprocedural and post-procedural adverse e vents. The approved product labeling allows for a clinical decision to leave Impella 2.5 in place beyond the intended duration of up to six hours in the event of unforeseen circumstances. Per our PMA approval, we are conduct ing a single-arm, post-approval study on the Impella 2.5 , collecting data on high-risk PCI patients. The study is a prospective, multi-center study comprised of 369 patients from up to 70 sites supported with the Impella 2.5 system. The Impella 2.5 device has CE M ark approval in Europe f or up to five days of use and is approved for use in over 40 countries. 

In August 2015, we submitted a PMA supplement to the FDA requesting to expand our current Impella 2.5 PMA approval to include additional indications for Impella 2.5 and all of our other Impella devices (Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD) that support the left side of the heart. These submissions are for a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery and for a longer duration of support. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. In this setting, the Impella heart pumps stabilize the patient&#8217;s hemodynamics, unload the left ventricle, perfuse the end organs and allow for recovery of the native heart. The post approval data collection and reporting requirement is using utilizing the cVAD Registry&#8482; (see below).

In addition to the U.S. clinical trial data, the Impella 2.5 PMA submission included clinical and scientific supporting evidence from more than 215 publications, covering 1,638 Impella 2.5 patients. The submission included a MDR analysis from 13,981 Impella 2.5 patients. In addition to clinical trial data from studies known as PROTECT I and PROTECT II, further data was provided in the submission from 637 high-risk patients enrolled in the U.S. Impella Registry, or cVAD Registry. The cVAD Registry is an ongoing multicenter, observational retrospective registry that includes 49 centers, collecting data on the Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, and Impella CP devices. The data collection from the registry includes Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval, complete data monitoring and Clinical Events Committee adjudication. 

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the sponsor of the trial is generally required to file an IDE application before commencing the trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a clinical study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the clinical study must be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site. The FDA, an IRB, or we may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including if information emerges suggesting that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following the completion of a study, the data from the study must be collected, analyzed and presented in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either as a reported submitted to the IDE file or in a marketing application such as a PMA. 

In addition, certain medical devices can be approved by the FDA in the U.S. under an HDE rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, there must be a qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition. The FDA must agree that a device meets these criteria before it can be approved under an HDE. FDA approval of an HDE also requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. If another device receives approval through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after review and approval by the hospital&#8217;s IRB. Proposed modifications to approved HDE devices, like modifications to approved PMA devices, require FDA approval through a new HDE application or an HDE supplement. 

We received FDA approval for the Impella RP heart pump under an HDE in January 2015for providing circulatory assistance for up to 14 days in patients who develop acute right heart failure or decompensation after left ventricular assist device implantation, myocardial infarction, heart transplant, or open-heart surgery. Impella RP is the first percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. 

Our AB5000 system is approved by the FDA for use in patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. The intent of therapy with this device is to provide circulatory support, restore normal hemodynamics, reduce ventricular work, and allow the heart time to recover adequate mechanical function. In April and September 2003, the AB5000 Circulatory Support System Console and, the AB5000 VAD, respectively, were approved under PMA supplements. Our Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. We received FDA 510(k) clearance of our Impella 5.0 and 

&#160;

Impella LD devices in April 2009 for circulatory support for up to six hours. Our AB Portable Driver received FDA approval under a PMA supplement in March 2009. All of these products have CE M arks allowing distribution w ithin the European Union. In September 2012, the Impella CP device received 510(k) clearance from the FDA for up to six hours of partial circulatory support using an extracorporeal bypass control unit. In March 2015, we received a PMA from the FDA for Impella 2.5 device , during elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures. In April 2016, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for our Impella 2.5, Impella CP , Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock . T he Impella CP device received CE Mark approval to market the device in the European Union in April 2012 and received Health Canada approval to market the device in Canada in June 2012. In April 2014, the Impella R P device received CE Mark approval , which allows for commercial sales of Impella RP in the EU and other countries that accept a CE Mark as a form of marketing authorization . 

Postmarket Regulation 

The medical devices that we manufacture and distribute pursuant to FDA regulatory clearances or approvals by the FDA and other countries&#8217; regulatory authorities are subject to continuing regulation by those agencies. The FDA reviews design, manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers&#8217; required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Among other FDA requirements, we must comply with the FDA&#8217;s good manufacturing practice regulations for medical devices, known as QSR. These regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. We must also comply with MDR, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in any of our products that may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, including medical intervention to prevent a death or serious injury, or in which any of our products malfunctioned and, if such malfunction were to recur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling, advertising, and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Current FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA for compliance with the QSR and MDR requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Regulatory authorities outside the United States enforce similar laws and regulations within their respective jurisdictions.

The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. 

In June 2011, we received a warning letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials marketed the Impella 2.5 for uses that had not been approved by the FDA. We cooperated with the FDA and made changes to our promotional materials in response to the warning letter. However, in April 2012, we received a follow up letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials continued to market the Impella 2.5 device in ways that are not compliant with FDA regulations. After additional action by us, we received a close-out letter in February 2013 from the FDA with respect to this matter, which noted that the FDA&#8217;s Office of Compliance had completed its review of the corrective actions we had taken in response to the warning letter and that the concerns cited appeared to have been addressed. 

On October 26, 2012, we were informed that the Department of Justice, United States Attorney&#8217;s Office for the District of Columbia was conducting an investigation (&#8220;Marketing and Labeling Investigation&#8221;) focused on our marketing and labeling of the Impella 2.5 heart pump. On October 31, 2012, we accepted service of a subpoena related to this investigation seeking documents and other materials related to the Impella 2.5. We cooperated fully with the Marketing and Labeling Investigation, and on June 29, 2015, we received confirmation that the Department of Justice had closed the Marketing and Labeling Investigation without taking enforcement action.

&#160;

On April 25, 2014, we received a subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, Office of Inspector General requesting materi als relevant to our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers for a six month period from July 2012 through December 2012 in connection with a civil investigation under the False Claims Act (the &#8220;FCA Investigation&#8221;). We submitted t he requested documents to HHS and believe that we substantially complied with the subpoena. On November 6, 2014, we received notice from the Department of Justice, United States Attorney&#8217;s Office for the District of Massachusetts in the form of a Civil Inv estigative Demand (&#8220;CID&#8221;) requesting additional materials relating to this matter for the time period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. We have responded to the additional requests for information contained in the CID, and are in the process of responding to other informal requests. We in tend to continue to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney&#8217;s Office in connection with the FCA Investigation. 

The FDA can require post-market surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as VADs and our medical devices, that require ongoing collection, analysis, and periodic submission to the FDA of clinical data during commercialization over a period of up to several years. The PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive and have an effect on the PMA approval status. The failure to comply with the FDA&#8217;s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure of products, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. The export of devices such as ours is also subject to regulation in certain instances. 

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, administers controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are therefore subject to FDA export requirements. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. 

Fraud and Abuse Laws 

Our business is regulated by laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could adversely affect our arrangements with customers and physicians. In addition, any violation of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Anti-Kickback Statute 

Subject to a number of statutory exceptions, the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the furnishing, recommending, purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for, a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The term &#8220;remuneration&#8221; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including payments to physicians or other providers, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything of value at less than fair market value. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, and the U.S. Department of Justice are responsible for enforcing the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute and the OIG is primarily responsible for identifying fraud and abuse activities affecting government healthcare programs.

Penalties for violating the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute include substantial criminal fines and/or imprisonment, substantial civil fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and do not include comparable exceptions to those provided by the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute. 

The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations that identify activities and business relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution under the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including certain investment interests, leases, personal service arrangements, discounts and management contracts. The failure of a particular activity to comply with all requirements of an applicable safe harbor regulation does not mean that the activity violates the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However, activities and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. 

In recent years, the federal government and several states have enacted legislation requiring biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, and other 

&#160;

activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncer tain, and available guidance is limited. We could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulati ons. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities that we do business with are found to have not complied with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. 

Federal False Claims Act 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits knowingly filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. A claim that is filed pursuant to an unlawful kickback may be a false claim under this law and, in a number of cases, manufacturers of medical products have entered into settlements of False Claims Act allegations that their financial relationships with customers &#8220;caused&#8221; these customers to submit false claims. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties for each separate false claim. Private individuals can file suits under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These lawsuits are known as &#8220;qui tam&#8221; actions, and the individuals bringing such suits, sometimes known as &#8220;relators&#8221; or, more commonly, &#8220;whistleblowers,&#8221; may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. 

HIPAA 

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. 

HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses and their business associates. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can result in civil fines and/or criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act 

In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or together, the Affordable Care Act. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a medical device excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. We began paying the medical device excise tax in January 2013. 

In December 2015, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (&#8220;PATH Act&#8221;) was implemented, which suspended the medical device excise tax implemented as part of the Affordable Care Act for a two-year period through December 31, 2017. We expect the suspension to have a positive impact on our operating expenses for fiscal year s 2017 and 2018. Additionally, the PATH Act permanently extended the research and development tax credit.

The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or PPSA, which requires manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to CMS, for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted in several states, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with healthcare professionals. Particularly, some states such as Massachusetts and Vermont impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. We have reported the information as required by the PPSA from the August 1, 2013 effective date through December 31, 2015. 

&#160;

Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California, Connecticut, Nevada and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, requiring reporting to state governments of g ifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may run afoul of one or more laws. 

International Regulation 

We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell our products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The European Union requires that our medical devices comply with the Medical Device Directive or the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, which includes quality system and CE certification requirements. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then undergo an appropriate conformity assessment procedure. A Notified Body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and verifies the conformity of devices to the essential and other requirements within the Medical Device Directive. In the European Union, we are also required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products. Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP, Impella RP, AB5000, and Portable Driver are all approved under CE Mark and are available for sale in the European Union. We are also subject to regulations and periodic review from various regulatory bodies in Canada, Japan and other countries where we sell our products. Lack of regulatory compliance in any of these jurisdictions could limit our ability to distribute products in these countries. 

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities and employees (such as physicians) and are therefore subject to various anti-bribery laws. Although our corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we do sell to certain customers in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Other Regulations 

We are also subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to such matters as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities. Specifically, the manufacture of our biomaterials is subject to compliance with federal environmental regulations and by various state and local agencies. Although we believe we are in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and other laws or regulations in the future. 

Seasonality 

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the first half of our fiscal year are typically lower than the second half of our fiscal year due to the seasonality of the U.S. and European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016, we had 747 full-time employees, including: 

&#160;

&#183; 

152 in product engineering, research and development, clinical development and regulatory; 

&#160;

&#183; 

303 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support; 

&#160;

&#183; 

223 in manufacturing; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

69 in general and administration. 

&#160;

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition commitments . Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our employee relations to be good. If we were unable to attract and retain qualifie d personnel in the future, our operations could be negatively impacted. 

