 Item 1. Business. 

Overview of Our Business 

Axcelis Technologies, Inc. ("Axcelis," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our") designs, manufactures and services ion implantation and other processing equipment used in the fabrication of semiconductor chips. We believe that our Purion family of products are the most innovative implanters available on the market today. We sell to leading semiconductor chip manufacturers worldwide. The ion implantation business represents 93.7% of our revenue in 2015 with the remaining 6.3% of revenue derived from other legacy processing systems. In addition to equipment, we provide extensive aftermarket lifecycle products and services, including used tools, spare parts, equipment upgrades, maintenance services and customer training. 

Axcelis' business commenced in 1978 and its current corporate entity was incorporated in Delaware in 1995, headquartered in Beverly, Massachusetts. We maintain an internet site at www.axcelis.com. On or through our website, investors may access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Form 10-K. 

Industry Overview 

Semiconductor chips, also known as integrated circuits, are used in personal computers, telecommunication equipment, digital consumer electronics, wireless communication products and other applications. Types of semiconductor chips include memory chips (which store and retrieve information), microprocessors (logic devices which process information) and "system on chip" devices (which have both logic and memory features). Most semiconductor chips are built on a wafer of silicon of either 200mm (8 inches) or 300mm (12 inches) in diameter. Each semiconductor chip is made up of millions of tiny transistors or "switches" to control the functions of the device. Transistors are created in the silicon wafer by introducing various precisely placed impurities into the silicon in specific patterns. The process steps in the formation of transistors are traditionally referred to as "front-end-of-line." The "back-end-of-line" process steps connect the transistors and other components together through several overlapping layers of metal wires, known as interconnect, creating a complete circuit. Each layer of metal interconnect must be separated by a non-conductive or insulating material called inter-level dielectric. Each layer that is added is selectively patterned to all previous layers through a process called photolithography. 

Semiconductor chip manufacturers utilize many different types of equipment in the making of integrated circuits. Over 300 process steps utilizing over 50 different types of process tools are required to make a single device like a microprocessor. Semiconductor chip manufacturers seek device performance benefits through new products and technology enhancements and productivity improvements through increased throughput, equipment utilization and higher manufacturing yields. 

Capacity is added by increasing the amount of manufacturing equipment in existing fabrication facilities and by constructing new fabrication facilities. Periodically the semiconductor device industry adopts a larger silicon wafer size to achieve lower manufacturing costs. Semiconductor manufacturers can produce more chips on a larger wafer, thus reducing the overall manufacturing cost per chip. For example, the use of 200mm wafers in production began at the end of the 1980s. The migration from 200mm to 300mm began at the end of the 1990s. The majority of wafer fabrication facilities today are using wafers with a diameter of 300mm. In 2015, Axcelis derived 87.0% of total systems revenue (a component of product revenue) from sales of 300mm equipment. In 2011, industry participants began 

planning for the next wafer size transition, to 450mm diameter wafers. The schedule for this future transition will vary by customer, but is not anticipated before 2020. 

The customer base is also changing. Given the magnitude of the investment needed to build a new wafer fabrication facility (often referred to as a "fab"), which can be over $4.0 billion for a new 300mm fab, many customers are entering into partnerships to offset the cost of technology development and manufacturing. In addition, many chip developers outsource all or part of their chip manufacturing requirements to contract manufacturers, known as foundries. Foundries are significant purchasers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. 

The semiconductor capital equipment industry is highly cyclical, as global chip production capacities successively exceed, then lag behind, global chip demand. When chip demand is high, and inventories low, chip manufacturers add capacity through capital equipment purchases. Given the difficulties of forecasting and calibrating chip demand and production capacity, the industry periodically experiences excess chip inventories and softening chip prices. Device manufacturers react with muted capital spending, lowering the demand for capital equipment. Changes in consumer and business demand for products in which chips are used also affect the industry. A successful semiconductor equipment manufacturer must not only provide some of the most technically complex products manufactured in the world but also must design its business to thrive during the inevitable low points in the cycle. 

Our financial results in 2015 reflect our continued investment of a significant portion of our resources in research and development programs related to our leading edge Purion ion implantation platform and the market introduction and sales of Purion H systems. These results also reflect our efforts to maintain tight control of discretionary spending. We expect customer demand for our Purion products to continue to grow. 

Axcelis' Strategy 

Axcelis' 2016 strategic initiatives are: 

&#149; Achieve implant market share goals by further expansion of our Purion customer base across all segments: &#149; Capitalize on strength in memory &#149; Grow in non-leading edge foundry/logic &#149; Leverage technical differentiators in leading edge foundry/logic &#149; Increase aftermarket revenues by delivering differentiated high value products in each business segment, including upgrades, spares, consumables, service and used tools &#149; Enhance profitability and cash generation &#149; Improve gross margins We have continued to invest in research and development through the industry cycles to assure our products meet the needs of our customers. We take pride in our scientists and engineers who continue to add to our portfolio of patents and unpatented proprietary technology to ensure that our investment in technology leadership is translated into unique product advantages. We strive for operational excellence by focusing on ways to lower our product, manufacturing and design costs and to improve our delivery times to our customers. We will continue to use our Global Customer Teams and a focused account management structure to maintain and strengthen our customer relationships and increase customer satisfaction. Finally, we will maintain a strong cash balance to insure that we have enough capital to fund a potential ramp in our business. 

Ion Implantation Systems 

Ion implantation is a principal step in the transistor formation cycle of the semiconductor manufacturing process. An ion implanter is a large, technically advanced system that injects dopants such as arsenic, boron or phosphorus into a wafer. These dopants are ionized and therefore have electric charges. With an electric charge they can be manipulated, moved and accelerated with electric and magnetic fields. Ion implanters use these fields to create a beam of ions with a precisely defined amount of energy (ranging between several hundred and three million electron-volts) and with a precisely defined amount of beam current (ranging from microamps to milliamps). Certain areas of the silicon wafer are blocked off by a polymer material known as photoresist, which acts as a "stencil" to pattern devices so that the dopants will only enter the wafer where needed. The dopants change the electrical properties of the silicon wafer to create the active components of a chip, called the transistors. Typical process flows require twenty implant steps, with the most advanced processes requiring thirty or more. Each implant step is characterized by four key parameters: dopant type, dose (amount of dopant), energy (depth into the silicon) and tilt (angle of wafer relative to the ion beam). 

In order to cover the wide range of implant steps, three different types of implanters have been developed, each designed to cover a specific range of applications, primarily defined by dose and energy. The three traditional implanter types are referred to as medium current, high current and high energy: 

&#149; Medium current implanters are the original model of ion implanter, with mid to low-range energy and dose capability. &#149; High current implanters were the second type of implanter to emerge, having low energy capability and high dose range. &#149; High energy implanters emerged to address the need for deeper implants with a high energy range and low dose. The Purion Platform and Family of Ion Implanters 

Axcelis offers a complete line of high energy, high current and medium current implanters for all application requirements. Our flagship systems are all based on a common Purion platform which offers purity, precision and productivity by combining a high-speed, state-of-the-art single wafer end station, enabling unmatched throughput (500 wafers per hour), and an advanced spot beam that ensures that all points across the wafer see the same beam at the same beam angle, resulting in exceptional process control and maximum yield. 

&#149; High Energy Implant. Our Purion XE high energy system, combines Axcelis' production-proven RF Linac high energy, spot beam technology with the Purion platform. Axcelis is a market leader in high energy ion implanters, and we expect to maintain our leadership in the high energy segment through sales of both our multi-wafer legacy high energy systems and the Purion XE. In 2015, we secured three new customers for the Purion XE in six different fabrication facilities. We also introduced the Purion VXE, which offers a higher energy range. &#149; Medium Current Implant. Our Purion M medium current system offers higher productivity and lower cost of ownership than competitive offerings, in addition to other advantages. Four customers, in both the memory and leading edge foundry segments, have the Purion M in production in 2015. We received follow-on orders from existing customers and obtained a new customer Purion M design-win. We also invested in technology that facilitates the manufacture of specialty devices on the Purion M, such as silicon carbide. &#149; High Current Implant. Our Purion H high current system fulfills all traditional high current requirements while extending beyond traditional high current energy and dose ranges. In order to maximize utilization and flexibility, the Purion H can process some traditional mid-current 4 

implants. In addition, the Purion H is extendable into ultra-low energy applications to satisfy future process requirements, including leakage current performance. We currently have four customers using the Purion H in production, and in 2015 we received multiple orders from one leading edge memory customer. 

We believe our ion implant products will continue to meet customer demand for advantages in productivity, process performance and technical extendibility. Our goal is to recapture ion implant market share leadership by the end of 2017. 

Dry Strip 

In December 2012, Lam Research Corporation ("Lam") purchased the intellectual property rights relating to our dry strip systems business. As a result of this transaction, we ceased the sale of 300mm dry strip wafer processing equipment in September 2013. In 2015, we and Lam agreed to extend the period of time in which we could sell dry strip systems for smaller wafers. Under the original agreement, our right to sell these systems ended in December 2015. As amended, we may continue to sell dry strip systems for 200mm and 150mm wafers through December 2017, provided royalties will be due to Lam on sales of 16 or more systems during the two year extension period. We will continue to service and support our dry strip installed base indefinitely. 

Aftermarket Support and Services 

Through our Global Service Solutions business, we offer our customers extensive aftermarket service and support throughout the lifecycle of the equipment we manufacture as well as equipment we previously manufactured. We believe that approximately 3,000 of our products are in use in 33 countries worldwide. The service and support that we provide includes used tools, spare parts, equipment upgrades, and maintenance services. We provide varying levels of sales, service and applications support out of our field offices to customers located in 33 countries. Revenue generated through our service and support business represented 43.0%, 59.8% and 61.6% of revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

To support our aftermarket business, we have approximately 200 staff members, including sales and marketing personnel, field service engineers, and spare parts and applications engineers, as well as employees located at our manufacturing facilities who work with our customers to provide customer training and documentation, product, process and applications support. In 2012, Ulvac Techno, an unrelated Japanese company, began providing aftermarket services and support services for our non-implant products in Japan. In September 2015, we elected to terminate this agreement with Ulvac Techno, effective March 31, 2016. After that date, we will offer aftermarket support in Japan directly to customers. 

Most of our customers maintain spare parts inventories for our machines. In addition to our web-based spare parts management and replenishment tracking program, we offer a number of Business-to-Business options to support our customers' parts management requirements. Our Axcelis Managed Inventory service offering, a parts consignment arrangement, provides the customer with full spares support, with Axcelis retaining responsibility for the complete supply chain. The expansion of these services provides ease of use alternatives that help us reduce order fulfillment costs and improve cycle time, resulting in an expanded customer base for this service offering. 

Sales and Marketing 

We primarily sell our equipment and services through our direct sales force. We conduct sales and marketing activities from our sales offices located in the United States, Taiwan, South Korea, China, Germany, Singapore and Italy. 

SEN Corporation, or "SEN" (our former Japanese joint venture, which was divested in March 2009), holds a non-exclusive license to use certain patented and unpatented technology associated with legacy products owned by the Company. Axcelis holds a reciprocal license of implant technology from SEN. These royalty-free, perpetual cross licenses do not restrict our ability to sell any of our products in Japan or elsewhere in the world. 

Concurrently with the sale of assets to Lam in December 2012, the Company and Lam entered into a Transition Agreement pursuant to which Lam granted us a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to use the dry strip intellectual property rights sold by the Company. The license allowed us to make and sell dry strip wafer processing equipment for semiconductor applications for a limited transition period after the closing and to support our installed base of dry strip equipment on a perpetual basis. 

International revenue, including export sales from our U.S. manufacturing facilities to foreign customers and sales by foreign subsidiaries and branches, accounted for 85.1%, 80.0% and 76.4% of total revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Substantially all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 15 of this Form 10-K for a breakdown of our revenue and long-lived assets in the United States, Europe and Asia. 

Customers 

In 2015, the top 20 semiconductor manufacturers accounted for approximately 87.7% of total semiconductor industry capital spending, up slightly from 87.5% in 2014. These manufacturers are from the largest semiconductor manufacturing regions in the world: the United States, Asia Pacific (Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and China), Japan and Europe. The Company serves leading semiconductor manufacturers. 

Revenue from our ten largest customers accounted for 76.8%, 68.1% and 69.1%, of revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We expect that sales of our products to relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future. In 2015, two customers accounted for 29.3% and 10.5% of revenue, respectively. In 2014, two customers accounted for 17.4% and 12.3% of revenue, respectively. In 2013, one customer accounted for 15.5% of revenue. 

Our Beverly, Massachusetts Advanced Technology Center houses a process development laboratory with 12,500 sq. ft. of class 10/100/1000 clean room for product demonstrations and process development and a 34,000 sq. ft. customer training center. The Advanced Technology Center provides infrastructure and process capabilities that allow customers to test their unique process steps on our systems under conditions that substantially replicate the customers' production environment. This facility also provides significant capability for our research and development efforts. 

Research and Development 

Our industry continues to experience rapid technological change, requiring us to frequently introduce new products and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive in this market will depend in part upon our ability to develop new and enhanced systems and to introduce these systems at competitive prices on a timely and cost effective basis. 

We devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to research and development programs and seek to maintain close relationships with our customers to remain responsive to their product needs. We have also sought to reduce the development cycle for new products through a collaborative process whereby our engineering, manufacturing and marketing personnel work closely together with one another and with our customers at an earlier stage in the process. We also use 3D, computer-aided design, finite element analysis and other computer-based modeling methods to test new designs. 

Our expenses for research and development were $32.6 million, $33.5 million and $34.8 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or 10.8%, 16.5% and 17.8% of revenue, respectively. We expect that research and development expenditures will continue to represent a similar level of investment in future years. 

Manufacturing 

We manufacture products at our 417,000 sq. ft. ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 certified plant in Beverly, Massachusetts. Our facility employs best in class manufacturing techniques, including lean manufacturing, six sigma controls and advanced inventory management, purchasing and quality systems. 

Our clean manufacturing process uses class 1,000/10,000 space to facilitate most of our manufacturing requirements. 

The Company's core manufacturing competency is built around system assembly and testing which remains an in-house capability due to the high degree of expertise and intellectual property associated with the process and design. Non-core work is sourced to one of several global partners and includes items such as power distribution, vacuum systems, wafer handling and commodity-level components. We continuously pursue outsourcing opportunities where the economics are justified, with a goal of enabling quality and margin improvement. Our supply chain team is globally focused and is located in Beverly and Singapore. Customized and commercially available software solutions drive our planning, purchasing and inventory tracking process. 

Our products are designed to be assembled and tested in a modular fashion, which facilitates our industry-recognized "ship-from-cell" process. Specially developed test stands, software and tooling provide the framework for this accelerated delivery process. Customers that choose ship-from-cell substantially improve their delivery times while receiving the same high level of quality provided by more traditional longer cycle integration techniques. Product margins and inventory turns also improve as a result of shorter factory cycle times and increased labor productivity. 

Installation of our equipment is provided by factory and field teams. The process includes assembling the equipment at its installation site and after it has been connected, recalibrating it to factory specifications. 

Competition 

The semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by a small number of participants ranging in size. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment market include price, cost of ownership, equipment performance, customer support, capabilities and breadth of product line. 

In ion implantation, we mainly compete against Applied Materials, Inc. The Company and Applied Materials are the only ion implant manufacturers with a full range of implant products, and service and support infrastructures able to service our customers globally. Three other niche players we compete with from time to time include Advanced Ion Beam Technology, Inc., Nissin Ion Implantation Co., Ltd. and SEN. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection in the United States and in other countries, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary rights in our products and our business. As of December 31, 2015, we had 320 active patents issued in the United States and 427 active patents granted in other countries, as well as 205 patent applications (48 in the United States and 157 in other countries) on file with various patent agencies worldwide. Patents are generally in effect for up to 20 years from the filing of the application. 

We intend to file additional patent applications and grow our intellectual property portfolio as appropriate. Although patents are important to our business, we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any single patent or any group of patents. 

We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. Trademark registrations generally remain in effect as long as the trademarks are in use. From time to time, we enter into license agreements with third parties under which we obtain or grant rights to patented or proprietary technology. Except for our license agreement with SEN and our license from Lam (described above under "Sales and Marketing"), we do not believe that any of our licenses are currently material to us. We can give no assurance that we, our licensors, licensees, customers or suppliers will not be subject to claims of patent infringement or claims to invalidate our patents, or that any such claims will not be successful, requiring us to pay substantial damages or remove certain features from our products or both. 

Backlog 

Systems backlog, including deferred systems revenue, was $22.5 million and $37.9 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We believe it is meaningful to investors to include deferred systems revenue as part of our backlog. Deferred systems revenue represents revenue that will be recognized in future periods based on prior shipments. Our policy is to include in backlog only those system orders for which we have accepted purchase orders and typically are due to ship within six months. All orders are subject to cancellations or rescheduling by customers with limited or no penalties. 

Backlog does not include orders received and fulfilled within a quarter. Our backlog at the beginning of a quarter typically does not include all orders required to achieve our sales objectives for that quarter. Backlog is not necessarily an indicator of future business trends because orders for services or parts received during the quarter are generally performed or shipped within the same quarter. 

Bookings in the quarter ended December 31, 2015 were $26.1 million compared to $56.1 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2014. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 774 employees and 34 temporary staff worldwide, of which 585 work in North America, 174 in Asia and 49 in Europe. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our employees are not represented by a labor union and are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement. One of our European locations has formed a work council, which has certain information and discussion rights under applicable law. 

Environmental 

We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate that regulate, among other things: air emissions; water discharges; and the generation, use, storage, transportation, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes produced by our manufacturing, research and development and sales activities. As with other companies engaged in like businesses, the nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, claims, penalties and orders. 

We are proud of our commitment to improving our environment. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that there are no pending environmental matters that would have a material impact on our business. We are ISO-14001 certified at our Beverly, MA facility. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

&#160; Mary G. Puma, 58, has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2002, having served as Chairman from 2005 to 2015. From May 2000 until January 2002, Ms. Puma was our President and Chief Operating Officer. In 1998, she became General Manager and Vice President of the Implant Systems Division of Eaton Corporation, a global diversified industrial manufacturer. In May 1996, she joined Eaton as General Manager of the Commercial Controls Division. Prior to joining Eaton, Ms. Puma spent 15 years in various marketing and general management positions for General Electric Company. Ms. Puma is a director of Nordson Corporation, North Shore Medical Center and Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI). 

&#160; Kevin J. Brewer, 57, became our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2013, having served as interim Chief Financial Officer beginning in June 2013. Mr. Brewer also manages our Global Operations. Mr. Brewer had been our Executive Vice President, Global Operations since 2008 and our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Operations since May 2005, prior to which he had been Vice President of Manufacturing Operations since October 2002 and Director of Operations from 1999 to 2002. Prior to joining Axcelis in 1999, Mr. Brewer was Director of Operations, Business Jets at Raytheon Aircraft Company, a leading manufacturer of business and special mission aircraft owned by Raytheon Company, a manufacturer of defense, government and commercial electronics, as well as aircraft. Prior to that, Mr. Brewer held various management positions in operations and strategic planning in Raytheon Company's Electronic Systems and Missile Systems groups. 

&#160; Lynnette C. Fallon, 56, is our Executive Vice President, Human Resources/Legal and General Counsel, a position she has held since May 2005. Prior to that, Ms. Fallon was Senior Vice President HR/Legal and General Counsel since 2002, and Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2001. Ms. Fallon has also been our corporate Secretary since 2001. Before joining Axcelis, Ms. Fallon was a partner in the Boston law firm of Palmer &#38; Dodge LLP since 1992, where she was head of the Business Law Department from 1997 to 2001. 

&#160; William Bintz, 59, has been our Executive Vice President, Product Development, Engineering and Marketing since 2011. Prior to that, he was our Senior Vice President, Marketing since September 2007, after joining Axcelis in early 2006 as Director of Marketing for curing and cleaning products and shortly thereafter becoming Vice President of Product Marketing. Prior to joining Axcelis, from 2002 Mr. Bintz was Product Director for Medium Current and High Energy Ion Implant System at Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. Before that, he was General Manager of the Materials Delivery Products Group at MKS Instruments, beginning in 1999, and General Manager of the Thermal Processing Systems Division at Eaton Corporation (now Axcelis) beginning in 1995. 

&#160; John E. Aldeborgh, 59, has been our Executive Vice President, Customer Operations since February 2013, having joined Axcelis in January 2013 as our Senior Vice President, Customer Operations. Prior to joining Axcelis, Mr. Aldeborgh served as the Chief Executive Officer and President, and as a Director, of innoPad, Inc., a privately held manufacturer of Chemical Mechanical Planarization pads, since 2006. Mr. Aldeborgh served in various marketing and sales position at Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. from 2002 to 2005, including Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Prior to Varian, Mr. Aldeborgh served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Ebara Technologies, Inc., from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Aldeborgh also held various positions, at Genus, Inc. from 1989 to 1998, including Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. 

&#160; Douglas A. Lawson, 55, has been our Executive Vice President, Corporate Marketing and Strategy since November 2013, having joined Axcelis as Vice President Business Development in 2010, and holding the position of Senior Vice President of Strategic Initiatives beginning in 2011. Mr. Lawson also manages our Information Technology function. Prior to joining the company in 2010, he held the position of General Manager of Luminus Devices from 2009 to 2010. He has over 30 years of 

experience in the technology industry, and has held numerous executive and technical positions at BTU International, PRI Automation, Digital Equipment and Intel. 

