 Item 1. Business &#160; 

American Capital Agency Corp. ("AGNC," the "Company," "we," "us" and "our") was organized on January 7, 2008 and commenced operations on May 20, 2008 following the completion of our initial public offering. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "AGNC." &#160; We are externally managed by American Capital AGNC Management, LLC (our "Manager"), an affiliate of American Capital, Ltd. ("American Capital"). 

We operate so as to qualify to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). As such, we are required to distribute annually 90% &#32;of our taxable net income. As long as we qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal or state corporate taxes on our taxable net income to the extent that we distribute all of our annual taxable net income to our stockholders. It is our intention to distribute 100% of our taxable net income, after application of available tax attributes, within the limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, which may extend into the subsequent taxable year. &#32;&#32; 

We earn income primarily from investing on a leveraged basis in agency mortgage-backed securities ("agency MBS"). These investments consist of residential mortgage pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs") for which the principal and interest payments are guaranteed by a government-sponsored enterprise, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac"), or by a U.S. Government agency, such as the Government National Mortgage Association ("Ginnie Mae") (collectively referred to as "GSEs"). We may also invest in other assets reasonably related to agency securities and up to 10% of our assets in AAA non-agency and commercial mortgage-backed securities (collectively referred to as "AAA non-agency MBS"). 

Our principal objective is to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for distribution to our stockholders through regular monthly dividends from the combination of our net interest income and net realized gains and losses on our investments and hedging activities while preserving our net asset value (also referred to as "net book value," "NAV" and "stockholders' equity"). We fund our investments primarily through short-term borrowings structured as repurchase agreements. 

Our Investment Strategy 

&#160; Our investment strategy is designed to: 

&#8226; 

manage an investment portfolio consisting primarily of agency securities that seeks to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns; &#160; 

&#8226; 

capitalize on discrepancies in the relative valuations in the agency and AAA non-agency securities market; &#160; 

&#8226; 

manage financing, interest rate, prepayment and extension risks; &#160; 

&#8226; 

preserve our net book value; &#160; 

&#8226; 

provide regular monthly distributions to our stockholders; &#160; 

&#8226; 

continue to qualify as a REIT; and &#160; 

&#8226; 

remain exempt from the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). 

Our Targeted Investments 

Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities 

The agency MBS in which we invest consist of agency residential pass-through certificates and collateralized mortgage obligations: &#160; 

&#8226; 

Agency Residential Pass-Through Certificates . Agency residential pass-through certificates are securities representing interests in "pools" of mortgage loans secured by residential real property. Monthly payments of principal and interest made by the individual borrowers on the mortgage loans that underlie the securities, which are guaranteed by a GSE to holders of the securities, are in effect "passed through," net of fees paid to the issuer/guarantor and servicers of the securities, to the holders of the securities. In general, mortgage pass-through certificates distribute cash flows from the underlying collateral on a pro rata basis among the holders of the securities. Holders of the securities also receive guarantor advances of principal and interest for delinquent loans in the mortgage pools. &#160; 

&#8226; 

Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations. Agency CMOs are securities that are structured instruments representing interests in agency residential pass-through certificates. Agency CMOs consist of multiple classes of securities, with 

&#32;2 

each class having specified characteristics, including stated maturity dates, weighted average lives and rules governing principal and interest distribution. Monthly payments of principal and interest, including prepayments, are typically returned to different classes based on rules described in the trust documents. Principal and interest payments may also be divided between holders of different securities in the agency CMO and some securities may only receive interest payments while others may only receive principal payments. 

The agency MBS that we acquire provide funds for mortgage loans made to residential homeowners. These securities generally represent interests in pools of mortgage loans made by mortgage bankers, commercial banks, savings and loan institutions, and other mortgage lenders. These pools of mortgage loans are assembled for sale to investors, such as us, by various government-related or private organizations. 

Agency MBS differ from other forms of traditional debt securities, which normally provide for periodic payments of interest in fixed amounts with principal payments at maturity or on specified call dates. Instead, agency MBS provide for a monthly payment, which may consist of both principal and interest. In addition, &#32; principal may be prepaid, without penalty, at par at any time due to prepayments on the underlying mortgage loans. These differences can result in significantly greater price and yield volatility than is the case with traditional fixed-income securities. &#160; 

Various factors affect the rate at which mortgage prepayments occur, including changes in the level of and directional trends in housing prices, interest rates, general economic conditions, loan age and size, loan-to-value ratio, the location of the property and social and demographic conditions. Additionally, changes to GSE guarantee fees, underwriting practices or other governmental programs could also significantly impact prepayment rates or expectations. Also, the pace at which the loans underlying our securities become seriously delinquent or are modified and the timing of GSE repurchases of such loans from our securities can materially impact the rate of prepayments. Generally, prepayments on agency MBS increase during periods of falling mortgage interest rates and decrease during periods of rising mortgage interest rates. However, this may not always be the case. We may reinvest principal repayments at a yield that is lower or higher than the yield on the repaid investment, thus affecting our net interest income by altering the average yield on our assets. 

When interest rates are declining, the value of agency MBS with prepayment options may not increase as much as other fixed income securities or could even decrease. The rate of prepayments on underlying mortgages affect the price and volatility of agency MBS and may have the effect of shortening or extending the duration of the security beyond what was anticipated at the time of purchase. When interest rates rise, our holdings of agency MBS may experience reduced returns if the owners of the underlying mortgages pay off their mortgages slower than anticipated. This could cause the prices of our mortgage assets to fall more than we anticipated and for our hedge portfolio to underperform relative to the decline in the value of our mortgage assets, thus reducing our net book value. This is generally referred to as "extension risk". &#160; 

Agency MBS are collateralized by pools of either fixed-rate mortgage loans, adjustable-rate mortgage loans ("ARMs") or hybrid ARMs. Hybrid ARMs are mortgage loans that have interest rates that are fixed for an initial period (typically three, five, seven or 10 years) and, thereafter, reset at regular intervals subject to interest rate caps. Our allocation of investments among securities collateralized by fixed-rate mortgage loans, ARMs or hybrid ARMs depends on our assessment of the relative value of the securities, which is based on numerous factors including, but not limited to, expected future prepayment trends, supply and demand, costs of financing, costs of hedging, expected future interest rate volatility and the overall shape of the U.S. Treasury and interest rate swap yield curves. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: 

We primarily invest in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agency MBS. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are stockholder-owned corporations chartered by Congress with a public mission to provide liquidity, stability, and affordability to the U.S. housing market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA"), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("U.S. Treasury") and are currently operating under the conservatorship of FHFA. The U.S. Treasury has agreed to support the continuing operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with any necessary capital contributions while in conservatorship. However, the U.S. government does not guarantee the securities, or other obligations, of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac operate in the secondary mortgage market. They purchase residential mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities from primary mortgage market institutions, such as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, seller/servicers, securities dealers and other investors. Through the mortgage securitization process, they package mortgage loans into guaranteed MBS for sale to investors, such as us, in the form of pass-through certificates and guarantee the payment of principal and interest on the securities, in exchange for guarantee fees. The underlying loans must meet certain underwriting standards established by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (referred to as "conforming loans") and may be fixed or adjustable rate loans with original terms to maturity generally up to 40 years. 

&#32;3 

Ginnie Mae: 

Ginnie Mae is a wholly-owned corporate instrumentality of the United States within HUD. Ginnie Mae guarantees the timely payment of the principal and interest on certificates that represent an interest in a pool of mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration ("FHA"), partially guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs or otherwise eligible for inclusion in mortgage pools underlying Ginnie Mae certificates. Section 306(g) of the Housing Act provides that the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all amounts that may be required to be paid under any guaranty by Ginnie Mae. Ginnie Mae certificates are primarily backed by single-family mortgage loans. 

Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities 

Non-agency mortgage investments in which we may invest consist of investment grade, AAA rated MBS backed by residential or commercial mortgages, for which the payment of principal and interest is not guaranteed by a GSE or government agency. Instead, a private institution such as a commercial bank will package residential or commercial mortgage loans and securitize them through the issuance of MBS. Non-agency MBS backed by residential loans are often referred to as private label MBS and MBS backed by commercial loans as CMBS. Investment grade, AAA rated non-agency MBS benefit from credit enhancements derived from structural elements, such as subordination, overcollateralization or insurance; however, they carry a higher level of credit exposure relative to agency MBS. 

Investment Methods &#160; 

We purchase mortgage securities either in initial offerings or on the secondary market through broker-dealers or similar entities. We may also utilize to-be-announced forward contracts ("TBA securities") in order to invest in agency MBS or to hedge our investments. A TBA security is a forward contract for the purchase or the sale of agency securities at a predetermined price, face amount, issuer, coupon and stated maturity on an agreed-upon future date, but the particular agency securities to be delivered are not identified until shortly before the TBA settlement date. We may also choose, prior to settlement, to move the settlement of these securities out to a later date by entering into an offsetting position (referred to as a "pair off"), net settling the paired off positions for cash, and simultaneously entering into a similar TBA contract for a later settlement date, which is commonly collectively referred to as a "dollar roll" transaction. 

Our Active Portfolio Management Strategy 

Our Manager employs on our behalf an active management strategy to achieve our principal objectives of generating attractive risk-adjusted returns and preservation of our net book value. Our active management strategy primarily involves buying and selling securities in all sectors of the agency securities market, including fixed-rate agency securities, adjustable-rate agency securities, agency CMOs and options on agency securities. We may also invest in other assets reasonably related to agency securities and up to 10% of our investment portfolio in AAA non-agency securities. The specific securities in which we invest are based on our Manager's continual assessment of the relative risk-return profile of these securities and our ability to hedge a portion of our exposure to market risks. Therefore, the composition of our portfolio and hedging strategies will vary as our Manager believes changes to market conditions, risks and valuations warrant. Consequently, we may experience investment gains or losses when we sell securities that our Manager no longer believes will provide attractive risk-adjusted returns or when our Manager believes more attractive alternatives are available elsewhere in the agency or AAA non-agency securities market. We may also experience gains or losses as a result of our hedging strategies. Our leverage may also fluctuate as we pursue our active management strategy, but we generally would expect our leverage to be six to eleven times our stockholders' equity. 

&#160; Investment Committee and Investment Guidelines 

&#160; The investment committee established by our Manager consists of Messrs. Malon Wilkus, John R. Erickson, Samuel A. Flax and Thomas A. McHale, each of whom is an officer of our Manager. The role of the investment committee is to monitor the performance of our Manager with respect to our investment guidelines and investment strategy, to monitor our investment portfolio and to monitor our compliance requirements related to our intention to qualify as a REIT and to remain exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The investment committee meets as frequently as it believes is required to maintain prudent oversight of our investment activities. Our Board of Directors receives an investment report and reviews our investment portfolio and related compliance with the investment guidelines on at least a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors does not review or approve individual investments, but receives notification in the event that we operate outside of our operating policies or investment guidelines. &#160; 

&#32;4 

Our Board of Directors has approved the following investment guidelines: &#160; 

&#8226; 

all of our investments (other than for hedging purposes and investments in approved broker-dealers) shall be in agency securities or in assets reasonably related to agency securities, with up to 10% of our portfolio consisting of AAA non-agency securities; 

&#8226; 

no investment shall be made that would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes; &#160; 

&#8226; 

no investment shall be made that would cause us to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; and &#160; 

&#8226; 

prior to entering into any proposed investment transaction with American Capital or any of its affiliates, a majority of our independent directors must approve the terms of the transaction. &#160; 

The investment committee may change these investment guidelines at any time, including a change that would permit us to invest in other mortgage related investments, with the approval of our Board of Directors (which must include a majority of our independent directors). Changes to our investment guidelines do not require stockholder approval. 

&#160; Our Financing Strategy 

&#160; As part of our investment strategy, we leverage our investment portfolio to increase potential returns to our stockholders. Our primary source of financing is through short-term repurchase agreements. A repurchase transaction acts as a financing arrangement under which we effectively pledge our investment securities as collateral to secure a short-term loan. Our borrowings pursuant to these repurchase transactions generally have maturities that range from 30 days to one year, but may have maturities of fewer than 30 days or up to five or more years. Under our repurchase agreements we typically pay a floating rate based on the one, three or six month London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus or minus a fixed spread. 

Our leverage may vary periodically depending on market conditions, our Manager's assessment of risk and returns and our ability to continue to borrow funds sufficient to fund acquisitions of mortgage securities. We generally would expect our leverage to be within six to eleven times the amount of our stockholders' equity. However, under certain market conditions, we may operate at leverage levels outside of this range for extended periods of time. 

We had master repurchase agreements with 36 &#32;financial institutions as of December 31, 2015 . The terms of the repurchase transaction borrowings under our master repurchase agreements generally conform to the terms in the standard master repurchase agreement as published by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ("SIFMA") as to repayment, margin requirements and the segregation of all securities we have initially sold under the repurchase transaction. In addition, each lender typically requires that we include supplemental terms and conditions to the standard master repurchase agreement. Typical supplemental terms and conditions include changes to the margin maintenance requirements, required "haircuts," purchase price maintenance requirements, requirements that all controversies related to the repurchase agreement be litigated in a particular jurisdiction and cross default provisions. These provisions differ for each of our lenders and certain of these terms are not determined until we engage in a specific repurchase transaction. &#160; 

We may also seek to obtain other sources of financing depending on market conditions. We may finance the acquisition of agency MBS by entering into TBA dollar roll transactions in which we would sell a TBA contract for current month settlement and simultaneously purchase a similar TBA contract for a forward settlement date. Prior to the forward settlement date, we may choose to roll the position out to a later date by entering into an offsetting TBA position, net settling the paired off positions for cash, and simultaneously entering into a similar TBA contract for a later settlement date. In such transactions, the TBA contract purchased for a forward settlement date is priced at a discount to the TBA contract sold for settlement/pair off in the current month. This difference (or discount) is referred to as the "price drop." The price drop is the economic equivalent of net interest carry income on the underlying agency MBS over the roll period (interest income less implied financing cost) and is commonly referred to as "dollar roll income." Consequently, dollar roll transactions represent a form of off-balance sheet financing. In evaluating our overall leverage at risk, we consider both our on-balance and off-balance sheet financing. 

&#32;5 

In April 2015, our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, Old Georgetown Insurance Co., LLC ("OGI"), was approved as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Des Moines. The FHLBs provide a variety of products and services to their members, including short and long-term secured loans, called "advances." FHLB members may use a variety of real estate related assets, including agency MBS and AAA non-agency securities, as collateral for such advances. Membership in the FHLB obligates OGI to purchase membership and activity-based stock in the FHLB, the latter dependent upon the aggregate amount of advances obtained from the FHLB. On January 12, 2016, the FHFA released its final rule on proposed changes to regulations concerning FHLB membership criteria previously issued in September 2014. The final rule terminates OGI's FHLB membership and requires repayment of all advances at the earlier of their contractual maturity dates or one year after the effective date of the final rule (February 2017). 

During 2015, we formed a wholly-owned captive broker-dealer subsidiary, Bethesda Securities, LLC ("BES"). BES is currently in the regulatory application process and expects to be operational in mid-2016. BES intends to become a member of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation ("FICC"), thereby providing us with access to additional repurchase agreement funding and TBA trade clearing capabilities. There can be no assurances that BES will be successful in receiving the regulatory approvals required to become operational or that BES will be successful in becoming a member of the FICC. 

Our Risk Management Strategy &#160; 

We use a variety of strategies to hedge a portion of our exposure to market risks, including interest rate, prepayment and extension risks, to the extent that our Manager believes is prudent, taking into account our investment strategy, the cost of the hedging transactions and our intention to qualify as a REIT. Our hedging strategies are generally not designed to protect our net book value from "spread risk" (also referred to as "basis risk"). Consequently, while we use interest rate swaps and other supplemental hedges to attempt to protect our net book value against moves in interest rates, we may not hedge certain interest rate, prepayment or extension risks if our Manager believes that bearing such risks enhances our return relative to our risk/return profile, or the hedging transaction would negatively impact our REIT status. Furthermore, such instruments typically will not protect our net book value against spread risk and, therefore, the value of our investment securities and our net book value could decline. 

&#8226; 

Interest Rate Risk. &#32;We hedge a portion of our exposure to potential interest rate mismatches between the interest we earn on our longer term investments and the interest we pay on our shorter term borrowings. Because a majority of our funding is in the form of repurchase agreements, our financing costs fluctuate based on short-term interest rate indices, such as LIBOR. Because our investments are assets that primarily have fixed rates of interest and could mature in up to 40 years, the interest we earn on those assets generally does not move in tandem with the interest that we pay on our repurchase agreements; therefore, we may experience reduced income or losses due to adverse rate movements. In order to attempt to mitigate a portion of such risk, we utilize certain hedging techniques to attempt to lock in a portion of the net interest spread between the interest we earn on our assets and the interest we pay on our financing costs. 

Additionally, because prepayments on residential mortgages generally accelerate when interest rates decrease and slow when interest rates increase, mortgage securities typically have "negative convexity." In other words, certain mortgage securities in which we invest may increase in price more slowly than similar duration bonds, or even fall in value, as interest rates decline. Conversely, certain mortgage securities in which we invest may decrease in value more quickly than similar duration bonds as interest rates increase. In order to manage this risk, we monitor, among other things, the "duration gap" between our mortgage assets and our hedge portfolio as well as our convexity exposure. Duration is the estimated percentage change in market value of our mortgage assets or our hedge portfolio that would be caused by a parallel change in short and long-term interest rates. Convexity exposure relates to the way the duration of our mortgage assets or our hedge portfolio changes when the interest rate or prepayment environment changes. 

The value of our mortgage assets may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the shape of the yield curve or by changes in the market's expectation about the volatility of future interest rates. We analyze our exposure to non-parallel changes in interest rates and to changes in the market's expectation of future interest rate volatility and take actions to attempt to mitigate these risks. 

&#8226; 

Prepayment Risk. &#32;Because residential borrowers have the option to prepay their mortgage loans at par at any time, we face the risk that we will experience a return of principal on our investments faster than anticipated. Prepayment risk generally increases when interest rates decline. In this scenario, our financial results may be adversely affected as we may have to invest that principal at potentially lower yields. 

&#8226; 

Extension Risk. Because residential borrowers have the option to make only scheduled payments on their mortgage loans, rather than prepay their mortgage loans, we face the risk that a return of capital on our investment will occur slower 

&#32;6 

than anticipated. Extension risk generally increases when interest rates rise. In this scenario, our financial results may be adversely affected as we may have to finance our investments at potentially higher costs without the ability to reinvest principal into higher yielding securities. &#32; 

&#8226; 

Spread Risk. Because the market spread between the yield on our investments and the yield on benchmark interest rates, such as U.S. Treasury rates and interest rate swap rates, may increase, we are exposed to spread risk. The inherent spread risk associated with our investment securities and the resulting fluctuations in fair value of these securities can occur independent of interest rates and may relate to other factors impacting the mortgage and fixed income markets, such as actual or anticipated monetary policy actions by the Federal Reserve ("Fed"), liquidity, or changes in required rates of return on different assets. 

The principal instruments that we use to hedge a portion of our exposure to interest rate, prepayment and extension risks are interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps ("interest rate swaptions"). We also utilize forward contracts for the purchase or sale of agency MBS securities in the TBA market on a generic pool basis and U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Treasury futures contracts, primarily through short sales. We may also purchase or write put or call options on TBA securities and invest in mortgage and other types of derivative instruments, such as interest and principal-only securities. 

The risk management actions we take may lower our earnings and dividends in the short term to further our objective of maintaining attractive levels of earnings and dividends over the long term. In addition, some of our hedges are intended to provide protection against larger rate moves and as a result may be relatively ineffective for smaller changes in interest rates. There can be no certainty that our Manager's projections of our exposures to interest rates, prepayments, extension or other risks will be accurate or that our hedging activities will be effective and, therefore, actual results could differ materially. 

Income from hedging transactions that we enter into to manage risk may not constitute qualifying gross income under one or both of the gross income tests applicable to REITs (see " Real Estate Investment Trust Requirements" ). Therefore, we may have to limit our use of certain advantageous hedging techniques, which could expose us to greater risks than we would otherwise want to bear, or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). Implementing our hedges through a TRS could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a TRS is subject to tax on income and gains. 

Other Investment Strategies &#160; 

We may enter into other short or long term investment strategies as the opportunities arise. &#160; 

Our Manager 

We are externally managed and advised by our Manager pursuant to the terms of a management agreement. Our Manager is an indirect subsidiary of American Capital Asset Management, LLC, which is a portfolio company of American Capital, Ltd., a publicly-traded private equity firm and global asset manager (NASDAQ: ACAS). American Capital both directly and through its asset management business, originates, underwrites and manages investments in middle market private equity, leveraged finance, real estate, energy &#38; infrastructure and structured products. American Capital, founded in 1986, manages $21 billion of assets, including assets on its balance sheet and fee earning assets under management by affiliated managers, with $73 billion of total assets under management (including levered assets) as of December 31, 2015 . American Capital and its affiliates operate out of seven offices in the United States and Europe. 

On January 7, 2016, American Capital announced that its Board of Directors authorized American Capital to solicit offers to purchase American Capital or its various business lines, in whole or in part. American Capital has issued no further information on the status of the solicitation or the nature of any possible transaction that may result from it. Thus, while it is possible that a transaction could have an impact on us or our Manager, it is impractical to provide information on the nature of any impacts. Moreover, there is no assurance that the solicitation will result in a transaction that will have an impact on us or our Manager. 

The sister company of our Manager is the external manager of American Capital Mortgage Investment Corp. (NASDAQ: MTGE) ("MTGE"), a publicly-traded REIT that invests in agency mortgage investments, non-agency mortgage investments and other mortgage related investments. In connection with our initial public offering, American Capital committed not to sponsor another investment vehicle that invests predominantly in agency securities that represent undivided beneficial interests in a group or pool of one or more mortgages, or whole-pool agency securities, for so long as we are managed by an affiliate of American Capital. Thus, MTGE's investment portfolio is expected to consist of assets that are not predominantly whole-pool agency securities for so long as we are managed by an affiliate of American Capital. &#160; 

Our Manager is responsible for administering our business activities and day-to-day operations, subject to the supervision and oversight of our Board of Directors. All of our officers and the members of our mortgage investment team and other support 

&#32;7 

personnel, other than employees of BES, are employees of either the parent company of our Manager or American Capital. Our Manager has entered into an administrative services agreement with American Capital and the parent company of our Manager, pursuant to which our Manager has access to their employees, infrastructure, business relationships, management expertise, information technologies, capital raising capabilities, legal and compliance functions, and accounting, treasury and investor relations capabilities, to enable our Manager to fulfill all of its responsibilities under the management agreement. We are not a party to the administrative services agreement. 

Malon Wilkus is our Chair and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer of our Manager and its parent company, American Capital Mortgage Management, LLC. Mr. Wilkus is also the Chair and Chief Executive Officer of MTGE and the Chief Executive Officer of its manager, American Capital MTGE Management, LLC. In addition, Mr. Wilkus is the Chair and Chief Executive Officer of American Capital Senior Floating, Ltd. (NASDAQ: ACSF), a publicly traded non-diversified closed-end investment management company. Mr. Wilkus is the founder of American Capital, and has served as its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1986, except for the period from 1997 to 1998 during which he served as Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. He also served as President of American Capital from 2001 to 2008 and from 1986 to 1999. Mr. Wilkus has also been the Chairman of European Capital Limited, a European private equity and mezzanine fund, since its formation in 2005. Additionally, Mr. Wilkus is the Chief Executive Officer and President of American Capital Asset Management, LLC, which is the asset fund management portfolio company of American Capital. He has also served on the board of directors of over a dozen middle-market companies in various industries. 

Gary Kain is the President of our Manager and also serves as our President and Chief Investment Officer, with primary oversight for all of our investments. He is also the President and Chief Investment Officer of MTGE and the President of its manager. Mr. Kain joined American Capital in January 2009 as a Senior Vice President and Managing Director and has served in various other roles with American Capital and its affiliates. Prior to joining American Capital, Mr. Kain served as Senior Vice President of Investments and Capital Markets of Freddie Mac from May 2008 to January 2009. He also served as Senior Vice President of Mortgage Investments &#38; Structuring of Freddie Mac from February 2005 to April 2008, during which time he was responsible for managing all of Freddie Mac's mortgage investment activities for its $700 billion retained portfolio. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Kain served as Vice President of Mortgage Portfolio Strategy at Freddie Mac. From 1995 to 2001, he served as head trader in Freddie Mac&#8217;s Securities Sales &#38; Trading Group, where he was responsible for managing all trading decisions, including REMIC structuring and underwriting, hedging all mortgage positions, income generation, and risk management. Prior to that, he served as a senior trader, responsible for managing the adjustable-rate mortgage and REMIC sectors. 

John R. Erickson is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, and Executive Vice President and Treasurer of our Manager and American Capital Mortgage Management, LLC. Mr. Erickson is also the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and a member of the board of directors of MTGE and the Executive Vice President and Treasurer of its manager, American Capital MTGE Management, LLC. In addition, he is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American Capital Senior Floating, Ltd. and the Executive Vice President and Treasurer of American Capital Asset Management, LLC. Mr. Erickson has also served as President, Structured Finance of American Capital since 2008 and as its Chief Financial Officer since 1998. From 1991 to 1998, Mr. Erickson was the Chief Financial Officer of Storage USA, Inc., a REIT formerly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: SUS). 

Samuel A. Flax is our Executive Vice President and Secretary and a member of our Board of Directors, and Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary of our Manager and American Capital Mortgage Management, LLC. Mr. Flax is also Executive Vice President and Secretary and a member of the board of directors of MTGE and the Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary of its manager, American Capital MTGE Management, LLC. In addition, he is the Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary of American Capital Senior Floating, Ltd. and American Capital Asset Management, LLC. Mr. Flax has also served as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary of American Capital, Ltd. since January 2005. Mr. Flax was a partner in the corporate and securities practice group of the Washington, D.C. law firm of Arnold &#38; Porter LLP from 1990 to January 2005. At Arnold &#38; Porter LLP, he represented American Capital in raising debt and equity capital, advised the company on corporate, securities and other legal matters and represented the company in many of its investment transactions. 

Peter J. Federico is the Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of our Manager and also serves as our Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer. He is also the Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of MTGE and its manager. He is primarily responsible for overseeing risk management activities for us and other funds managed by affiliates of our Manager. Mr. Federico joined the parent company of our Manager in May 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Federico served as Executive Vice President and Treasurer of Freddie Mac from October 2010 through May 2011, where he was primarily responsible for managing the company's investment activities for its retained portfolio and developing, implementing and managing risk mitigation strategies. He was also responsible for managing Freddie Mac's $1.2 trillion interest rate derivative portfolio and short and long-term debt 

&#32;8 

issuance programs. Mr. Federico also served in a number of other capacities at Freddie Mac, including as Senior Vice President, Asset &#38; Liability Management, after he joined the company in 1988. 

Christopher J. Kuehl is a Senior Vice President of our Manager and also serves as our Senior Vice President, Agency Portfolio Investments. He is also the Senior Vice President, Agency Portfolio Investments of MTGE and Senior Vice President of its manager. He is primarily responsible for directing purchases and sales of agency securities for us and other funds managed by affiliates of our Manager. Mr. Kuehl joined the parent Company of our Manager in August 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Kuehl served as Vice President of Mortgage Investments &#38; Structuring of Freddie Mac, where he was primarily responsible for directing Freddie Mac's purchases, sales and structuring activities for all MBS products, including fixed-rate mortgages, ARMs and CMOs. Prior to joining Freddie Mac in 2000, Mr. Kuehl was a Portfolio Manager with TeleBanc/Etrade Bank. 

The Management Agreement &#160; 

We have entered into a management agreement with our Manager with a current term through May 20, 2016, and automatic one-year extension options thereafter. The management agreement may only be terminated by either us or our Manager without cause, as defined in the management agreement, after the completion of the current renewal term or the expiration of any automatic subsequent renewal term, provided that either party provides 180-days prior written notice of non-renewal of the management agreement. If we were not to renew the management agreement without cause, we must pay a termination fee on the last day of the applicable term, equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by our Manager during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the most recently completed month prior to the effective date of termination. We may only not renew the management agreement with or without cause with the consent of a majority of our independent directors. Our Manager is responsible for, among other things, performing all of our day-to-day functions, determining investment criteria in conjunction with our Board of Directors, sourcing, analyzing and executing investments, asset sales and financings and performing asset management duties. &#160; 

We pay our Manager a management fee payable monthly in arrears in an amount equal to one-twelfth of 1.25% of our month-end stockholders' equity, adjusted to exclude the effect of any unrealized gains or losses included in either retained earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income ("OCI") (a separate component of stockholders' equity), each as computed in accordance with GAAP. There is no incentive compensation payable to our Manager pursuant to the management agreement. &#160; 

In addition, we reimburse our Manager for expenses directly related to our operations incurred by our Manager, but excluding employment-related expenses of our Manager's officers and employees and any American Capital employees who provide services to us pursuant to the management agreement. 

Exemption from Regulation under the Investment Company Act &#160; 

We conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, in reliance on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires us to invest at least 55% of our assets in "mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate" or "qualifying real estate interests" and at least 80% of our assets in qualifying real estate interests and "real estate-related assets." In satisfying this 55% requirement, based on pronouncements of the SEC staff, we treat agency MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool ("whole pool" securities) as qualifying real estate interests. We currently treat agency MBS in which we hold less than all of the certificates issued by the pool ("partial pool" securities) as real estate-related assets. We treat CMO securities and AAA non-agency securities as real-estate related assets. 

Real Estate Investment Trust Requirements 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. As long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we annually distribute all of our taxable income to stockholders. We believe that we have been organized and operate in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a REIT. &#160; 

Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends on our ability to meet on a continuing basis various qualification requirements imposed upon REITs by the Internal Revenue Code. Our ability to qualify as a REIT also requires that we satisfy certain asset tests, some of which depend upon the fair market values of assets that we own directly or indirectly. Such values may not be susceptible to precise determination. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the actual results of our operations for any taxable year will satisfy such requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. &#160; 

Taxation of REITs in General &#160; 

Provided that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally be entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and, therefore, will not be subject to federal corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" at the corporate and stockholder levels that generally results from 

&#32;9 

investment in a domestic corporation. In general, the income that we generate is taxed only at the stockholder level upon a distribution of dividends to our stockholders. &#160; 

As a REIT, we will nonetheless be subject to federal tax under certain circumstances including the following: &#160; 

&#8226; 

We will be taxed at regular corporate rates on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains. 

&#8226; 

We may be subject to the "alternative minimum tax" on our items of tax preference, including any deductions of net operating losses. &#160; 

&#8226; 

If we have net income from prohibited transactions, which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure property, such income will be subject to a 100% tax. &#160; 

&#8226; 

If we should fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test, as discussed below, but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because we satisfy other requirements, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount based on the magnitude of the failure, as adjusted to reflect the profit margin associated with our gross income. &#160; 

&#8226; 

If we should violate the asset tests (other than certain &#32;de minimis &#32;violations) or other requirements applicable to REITs, as described below, and yet maintain our qualification as a REIT because there is reasonable cause for the failure and other applicable requirements are met, we may be subject to a penalty tax. In that case, the amount of the penalty tax will be at least $50,000 per failure, and, in the case of certain asset test failures, will be determined as the amount of net income generated by the assets in question multiplied by the highest corporate tax rate (currently 35%) if that amount exceeds $50,000 per failure. &#160; 

&#8226; 

If we should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year, and (c) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of (i) the amounts that we actually distributed, (ii) the amounts we retained and upon which we paid income tax at the corporate level and (iii) any over distributions from prior periods. 

&#8226; 

We may be required to pay monetary penalties to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") in certain circumstances, including if we fail to meet record keeping requirements intended to monitor our compliance with rules relating to the composition of a REIT's stockholders, as described below in "Requirements for Qualification-General." &#160; 

&#8226; 

A 100% tax may be imposed on transactions between us and our TRSs (as described below), that do not reflect arm's-length terms. &#160; 

&#8226; 

If we acquire appreciated assets from a corporation that is not a REIT (i.e., a corporation taxable under subchapter C of the Internal Revenue Code) in a transaction in which the adjusted tax basis of the assets in our hands is determined by reference to the adjusted tax basis of the assets in the hands of the subchapter C corporation, we may be subject to tax on such appreciation at the highest corporate income tax rate then applicable if we subsequently recognize a gain on a disposition of any such assets during the ten-year period following their acquisition from the subchapter C corporation. &#160; 

&#8226; 

The earnings of our subsidiaries, including our TRSs, are subject to federal corporate income tax to the extent that such subsidiaries are subchapter C corporations and are not qualified REIT subsidiaries ("QRS"). &#160; 

Requirements for Qualification-General &#160; 

The Internal Revenue Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: &#160; 

(1) 

that is managed by one or more trustees or directors; &#160; 

(2) 

the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; &#160; 

(3) 

that would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for its election to be subject to tax as a REIT; &#160; 

(4) 

that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code; &#160; 

&#32;10 

(5) 

the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons; &#160; 

(6) 

in which, during the last half of each taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer "individuals" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include specified tax-exempt entities); and &#160; 

(7) 

which meets other tests described below, including with respect to the nature of its income and assets. &#160; 

The Internal Revenue Code provides that conditions (1) through (4) must be met during the entire taxable year, and that condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provides restrictions regarding the ownership and transfers of our stock, which are intended to assist us in satisfying the stock ownership requirements described in conditions (5) and (6) above. &#160; 

To monitor compliance with the stock ownership requirements, we generally are required to maintain records regarding the actual ownership of our stock. To do so, we must demand written statements each year from the record holders of significant percentages of our stock pursuant to which the record holders must disclose the actual owners of the stock (i.e., the persons required to include our dividends in their gross income). We must maintain a list of those persons failing or refusing to comply with this demand as part of our records. We could be subject to monetary penalties if we fail to comply with these record-keeping requirements. If a stockholder fails or refuses to comply with the demands, the stockholder will be required by U.S. Treasury regulations to submit a statement with their tax return disclosing their actual ownership of our stock and other information. &#160; 

The Internal Revenue Code provides relief from violations of the REIT gross income requirements, as described below under "Income Tests," in cases where a violation is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect and other requirements are met, including the payment of a penalty tax that is based upon the magnitude of the violation. In addition, certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code extend similar relief in the case of certain violations of the REIT asset requirements (see "Asset Tests" below) and other REIT requirements, again provided that the violation is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and other conditions are met, including the payment of a penalty tax. If we fail to satisfy any of the various REIT requirements, there can be no assurance that these relief provisions would be available to enable us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, and, if such relief provisions are available, the amount of any resultant penalty tax could be substantial. &#160; 

Effect of Taxable Subsidiaries &#160; 

In general, we may jointly elect with a subsidiary corporation, whether or not wholly-owned, to treat such subsidiary corporation as a taxable REIT subsidiary. We generally may not own more than 10% of the securities of a taxable corporation, as measured by voting power or value, unless we and such taxable corporation elect to treat such corporation as a taxable REIT subsidiary. The separate existence of a taxable REIT subsidiary or other taxable corporation is not ignored for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, such entities generally are subject to corporate income tax on their earnings, which may reduce the cash flow that we and our subsidiaries generate in the aggregate, and may reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. &#160; 

For determining compliance with the "Income Tests" and "Asset Tests" applicable to REITs described below, the gross income and assets of TRSs and other taxable subsidiaries are excluded. Instead, actual dividends paid to the REIT from such taxable subsidiaries, if any, are included in the REIT's gross income tests and the value of the REIT's net investment in such entities is included in the gross asset tests. Because the gross income and assets of a TRS or other taxable subsidiary corporations are excluded in determining compliance with the REIT requirements, we may use such entities to undertake indirectly activities that the REIT rules might otherwise preclude us from doing directly or through pass-through subsidiaries. For example, we may use our TRS or other taxable subsidiary corporations to conduct activities that give rise to certain categories of income or to conduct activities that, if conducted by us directly, could be treated in our hands as non-real estate related or prohibited transactions. 

We jointly elected to treat our wholly-owned subsidiary American Capital Agency TRS, LLC as a TRS. 

The TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. Further, the rules impose a 100% excise tax on transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. We intend that all of our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on an arm's-length basis. 

Disregarded Entities 

Our wholly-owned subsidiaries Bethesda Securities, LLC and Old Georgetown Insurance Co., LLC are disregarded entities for federal income tax purposes. As such, their assets, liabilities and income would generally be treated as our assets, liabilities and income for purposes of each of the below REIT qualification tests. 

&#32;11 

Income Tests 

In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income requirements on an annual basis. 

1. 

At least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year, excluding gross income from sales of inventory or dealer property in "prohibited transactions" and certain hedging transactions, generally must be derived from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including interest income derived from mortgage loans secured by real property (including, generally, agency MBS and certain other types of mortgage-backed securities), "rents from real property," dividends received from other REITs, and gains from the sale of real estate assets (excluding nonqualified debt instruments from publically offered REITs), as well as specified income from temporary investments. 

2. 

At least 95% of our gross income in each taxable year, excluding gross income from prohibited transactions and certain hedging transactions, must be derived from some combination of income that qualifies under the 75% gross income test described above, as well as other dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, which need not have any relation to real property. 

Interest income constitutes qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the 75% gross income test described above to the extent that the obligation upon which such interest is paid is secured by a mortgage on real property. If we receive interest income with respect to a mortgage loan that is secured by both real property and other property that has an aggregate value in excess of 15% of the combined value of the real and other property, and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property on the date that we acquired or originated the mortgage loan, the interest income will be apportioned between the real property and the other collateral, and our income from the arrangement will qualify for purposes of the 75% gross income test only to the extent that the interest is allocable to the real property. Even if a loan is not secured by real property, or is under secured, the income that it generates may nonetheless qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. &#160; 

We treat our investments in agency and AAA non-agency MBS either as interests in a grantor trust or as interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit ("REMIC") for federal income tax purposes and, therefore, treat all interest income from such investments as qualifying income for the 95% gross income test. In the case of agency MBS treated as interests in grantor trusts, we treat these as owning an undivided beneficial ownership interest in the mortgage loans held by the grantor trust. Such mortgage loans generally qualify as real estate assets to the extent that they are secured by real property. The interest on such mortgage loans is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test to the extent that the obligation is secured by real property, as discussed above. In the case of agency and AAA non-agency MBS treated as interests in a REMIC, income derived from REMIC interests is generally treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income tests. If less than 95% of the assets of the REMIC are real estate assets, however, then only a proportionate part of our interest in the REMIC and income derived from the interest qualifies for purposes of the 75% gross income test. In addition, some REMIC securitizations include embedded interest rate swap or cap contracts or other derivative instruments that potentially could produce non-qualifying income for the holder of the related REMIC securities. We expect that substantially all of our income from our agency and AAA non-agency MBS will continue to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. &#160; 

We purchase and sell agency MBS through TBA contracts and recognize income or gains from the disposition of those TBAs, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, and may continue to do so in the future. While there is no direct authority with respect to the qualification of income or gains from dispositions of TBAs as gains from the sale of real property (including interests in real property and interests in mortgages on real property) or other qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we treat income and gains from our TBAs as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, based on an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP substantially to the effect that, for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test, any gain recognized by us in connection with the settlement of our TBA contracts should be treated as gain from the sale or disposition of the underlying agency securities. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS, and no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the conclusions set forth in such opinions. In addition, it must be emphasized that the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP is based on various assumptions relating to our TBAs and is conditioned upon fact-based representations and covenants made by our management regarding our TBAs. No assurance can be given that the IRS would not assert that such income is not qualifying income. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if a sufficient portion of our income consists of income or gains from the disposition of TBAs. 

We may directly or indirectly receive distributions from our TRSs or other corporations that are not REITs or qualified REIT subsidiaries. These distributions generally are treated as dividend income to the extent of the earnings and profits of the distributing corporation. Such distributions will generally constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test, but not for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Any dividends that we receive from a REIT, however, will be qualifying income for purposes of both the 95% and 75% gross income tests. &#160; 

&#32;12 

Any income or gain that we derive from instruments that hedge the risk of changes in interest rates will generally be excluded from both the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income test, provided that specified requirements are met, including the requirement that: the instrument is entered into during the ordinary course of our business; the instrument hedges risks associated with indebtedness issued by us that is incurred to acquire or carry "real estate assets" (as described below under "Asset Tests") or that the instrument is entered into to offset the hedging effect achieved by the original hedge upon a disposition of all or a portion of the real estate indebtedness being hedged; and the instrument is properly identified as a hedge along with the risk that it hedges within prescribed time periods. Income and gain from all other hedging transactions will not be qualifying income for either the 95% or 75% gross income test. 

Under The Housing and Economic Recovery Tax Act of 2008, the Secretary of the Treasury has been given broad authority to determine whether particular items of gain or income recognized after July 30, 2008 qualify or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes. 

Asset Tests &#160; 

At the close of each calendar quarter, we must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets. 

1. 

At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by some combination of "real estate assets," cash, cash items, U.S. Government securities, and, under some circumstances, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments purchased with new capital. For this purpose, real estate assets include some kinds of MBS and mortgage loans, as well as interests in real property, stock of other corporations that qualify as REITs and debt instruments of publically offered REITs (limited to 25% of the value of our total assets). Assets that do not qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test are subject to the additional asset tests described below. 

2. 

The value of any one issuer's securities that we own may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets. 

3. 

We may not own more than 10% of any one issuer's outstanding securities, as measured by either voting power or value. The 5% and 10% asset tests do not apply to securities of TRSs and qualified REIT subsidiaries and the 10% asset test does not apply to "straight debt" having specified characteristics and to certain other securities. 

4. 

For tax years beginning on or before December 31, 2017, the aggregate value of all securities of all TRSs that we hold may not exceed 25% of the value of our total assets. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the aggregate value of all securities of all TRSs that we hold may not exceed 20% of the value of our total assets. 

We enter into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sell certain of our investment securities to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets in exchange for a purchase price that reflects a financing charge. We believe that we would be treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the collateral that is the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that such agreement may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own such collateral during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. 

&#160; As discussed above, we purchase and sell agency MBS through TBAs and may continue to do so in the future. While there is no direct authority with respect to the qualification of TBAs as real estate assets or U.S. Government securities for purposes of the 75% asset test, we treat our TBAs as qualifying assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests, based on an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP substantially to the effect that, for purposes of the REIT asset tests, our ownership of a TBA should be treated as ownership of the underlying agency MBS. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS, and no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the conclusions set forth in such opinions. In addition, it must be emphasized that the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP is based on various assumptions relating to our TBAs and is conditioned upon fact-based representations and covenants made by our management regarding our TBAs. No assurance can be given that the IRS would not assert that such assets are not qualifying assets. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &#38; Flom LLP, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if a sufficient portion of our assets consists of TBAs. &#160; 

No independent appraisals have been obtained to support our conclusions as to the value of our total assets or the value of any particular security or securities. Moreover, values of some assets, including instruments issued in securitization transactions, may not be susceptible to a precise determination, and values are subject to change in the future. Furthermore, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT asset requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in our subsidiaries or in the securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT asset tests. 

&#32;13 

If we should fail to satisfy the asset tests at the end of a calendar quarter, such a failure would not cause us to lose our REIT qualification if we (1) satisfied the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and (2) the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset requirements was not wholly or partly caused by an acquisition of non-qualifying assets, but instead arose from changes in the market value of our assets. If the condition described in (2) were not satisfied, we still could avoid disqualification by eliminating any discrepancy within 30 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which it arose or by making use of relief provisions described under " Failure to Qualify " below. &#160; 

Annual Distribution Requirements &#160; 

In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute dividends, other than capital gain dividends, to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to: &#160; 

(a) the sum of &#160; 

(1) 90% of our "REIT taxable income," computed without regard to our net capital gains and the deduction for dividends paid, and &#160; 

(2) 90% of our net income after tax, if any, from foreclosure property minus &#160; 

(b) the sum of specified items of non-cash income. &#160; 

We generally must make these distributions in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for the year and if paid with or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration. &#160; 

To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our "REIT taxable income," within the period described above, we will be subject to tax at the applicable corporate tax rates on the retained portion. We may elect to retain, rather than distribute, our net long-term capital gains and pay tax on such gains if required. In this case, we could elect for our stockholders to include their proportionate shares of such undistributed long-term capital gains in income, and to receive a corresponding credit for their share of the tax that we paid. Our stockholders would then increase their adjusted basis of their stock by the difference between (a) the amounts of capital gain dividends that we designated and that they include in their taxable income, minus (b) the tax that we paid on their behalf with respect to that income. &#160; 

To the extent that we may have available net operating losses carried forward from prior tax years, such losses may reduce the amount of distributions that we must make in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Such losses, however, will generally not affect the character, in the hands of our stockholders, of any distributions that are actually made as ordinary or capital gain dividends. &#160; 

If we should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year, and (c) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be subject to a non-deductible 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over the sum of (x) the amounts actually distributed, (y) the amounts of income we retained and on which we have paid corporate income tax and (z) any excess distributions over required distributions from prior periods. 

It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash to meet the distribution requirements due to timing differences between our actual receipt of cash and our inclusion of items in income for federal income tax purposes. For example, mortgage-backed securities that are issued at a discount generally require the accrual of taxable economic interest in advance of receipt in cash. &#160; 

Derivatives and Hedging Transactions &#160; 

We maintain a risk management strategy, under which we may use a variety of derivative instruments to hedge some of our exposure to market risks, including interest rate, prepayment and extension risk. To the extent that we enter into a hedging transaction to manage interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to offset the hedging effect achieved by the original hedging transaction, and the instrument is properly identified as a hedge along with the risk it hedges within prescribed time periods, any periodic income from the instrument, or gain from the disposition of such instrument, would be excluded altogether from the 75% and 95% gross income test. &#160; 

To the extent that we hedge in other situations, the resultant income may not qualify under the 75% or the 95% gross income tests. We intend to structure any hedging transactions in a manner that does not jeopardize our status as a REIT. We may conduct some of our hedging activities through our TRS, the income from which would be subject to federal and state income tax, rather than by participating in the arrangements directly. &#160; 

&#32;14 

Failure to Qualify &#160; 

If we should fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, we may still qualify as a REIT if there is reasonable cause for the failure and not due to willful neglect and other applicable requirements are met, including completion of applicable IRS filings. It is not possible to state whether we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions in all circumstances. If these relief provisions are inapplicable to a particular set of circumstances, we will not qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, if we satisfy the relief provisions and maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be still subject to a penalty tax. The amount of the penalty tax will be at least $50,000 per failure, and, in the case of certain asset test failures, will be determined as the amount of net income generated by the assets in question multiplied by the highest corporate tax rate (currently 35%) if that amount exceeds $50,000 per failure, and, in case of income test failures, will be a 100% tax on an amount based on the magnitude of the failure, as adjusted to reflect the profit margin associated with our gross income. &#160; 

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and the relief provisions described above do not apply, we would be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We cannot deduct distributions to stockholders in any year in which we are not a REIT, nor would we be required to make distributions in such a year. In this situation, to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits, distributions to domestic common stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates will generally be taxable as a qualified dividend eligible for the maximum federal tax rate of 20% provided that the shares have been held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date. For certain distributions to preferred stockholders, the relevant holding period is at least 91 days out of the 181 day period beginning 90 days before the ex&#8211;dividend date. In addition, subject to the limitations of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction. Unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we would also be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. It is not possible to state whether, in all circumstances, we would be entitled to this statutory relief. &#160; 

Corporate Information &#160; 

Our executive offices are located at Two Bethesda Metro Center, 14 th &#32;Floor, Bethesda, MD 20814 and our telephone number is (301) 968-9300. &#160; 

We make available all of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports as well as our Code of Ethics and Conduct free of charge on our internet website at www.AGNC.com &#32;as soon as reasonably practical after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These reports are also available on the SEC internet website at www.sec.gov . &#160; 

Competition &#160; 

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage assets, we compete with mortgage REITs, mortgage finance and specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, other lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. These entities and others that may be organized in the future may have similar asset acquisition objectives and increase competition for the available supply of mortgage assets suitable for purchase. Additionally, our investment strategy is dependent on the amount of financing available to us in the repurchase agreement market, which may also be impacted by competing borrowers. Our investment strategy will be adversely impacted if we are not able to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. &#160; 

Employees &#160; 

We are managed by our Manager pursuant to the management agreement between our Manager and us. Prior to the formation of BES, we did not have any employees. As of December 31, 2015, BES had three employees. 

&#32;15 

