 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a women's health specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of new prescription contraceptive products. Our product candidates are designed to provide women with contraceptive options that offer greater convenience and facilitate compliance. We have developed a proprietary transdermal patch technology, called Skinfusion&#174;, which is designed to provide advantages over currently available patches and is intended to optimize patch adherence and stability and patient comfort. Our lead product candidate, Twirla&#174;, also known as AG200-15, is a once-weekly prescription contraceptive patch currently in Phase 3 clinical development. The U.S. hormonal contraceptive market, with total market sales of approximately $5.6 billion in 2015, represents the greatest opportunity for Twirla. Over half of those sales were generated by branded products. Currently, there is only one other contraceptive patch available in the United States and we believe it has limitations due to its dose and physical characteristics. Twirla is designed to address these limitations. We believe there is an unmet market need for a low-dose contraceptive patch, which is designed to increase patient convenience and compliance in a non-invasive fashion. 

Twirla is a combined hormonal contraceptive, or CHC, patch that contains the active ingredients ethinyl estradiol, or EE, which is a synthetic estrogen, and levonorgestrel, or LNG, which is a type of progestin, a synthetic steroid hormone, both of which have an established history of efficacy and safety in currently marketed combination low-dose, oral contraceptives. Twirla is designed using our proprietary Skinfusion technology to consistently deliver both hormones over a seven-day period at levels comparable to currently marketed low-dose oral contraceptives. By delivering these active ingredients over seven days, in a comfortable, convenient and easy-to-use weekly patch, Twirla is designed to promote enhanced patient compliance. The patch is applied once weekly for three weeks, followed by a week without a patch. If approved, Twirla will be packaged with three patches per carton to provide for one 28-day cycle of therapy. 

We have conducted a comprehensive clinical program, with completed Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 trials enrolling over 2,100 women, over 1,500 of whom received Twirla. We are currently conducting an additional Phase 3 trial, the SECURE study, in which we have enrolled over 2,000 women for up to one year of treatment. In Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, we demonstrated that Twirla delivers levels of both EE and LNG to the blood stream that are consistent with current low-dose oral contraceptives. In our two completed Phase 3 clinical trials that enrolled over 1,900 women in the aggregate for up to 12 months, we demonstrated that Twirla generally had comparable efficacy and tolerability to an approved low-dose oral contraceptive. In our completed Phase 3 trials to date, 485 women received Twirla for 12 months. Across all completed clinical trials, Twirla was generally well tolerated and had a favorable safety profile. 

We have filed a Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Application, or NDA, for approval of Twirla by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, which is required before marketing a new drug in the United States. Our 505(b)(2) NDA relies in part on clinical trials that we conducted and in part on the FDA's findings of safety and efficacy from investigations for approved products containing the active ingredients and published scientific literature for which we have not obtained a right of reference. The FDA has indicated in a Complete Response Letter, or CRL, that our NDA was not sufficient for approval as originally submitted. After multiple communications with the FDA, we have received significant guidance as to what additional clinical development and other activities need to be completed prior to approval. In accordance with the FDA's advice and comments, we are conducting an additional Phase 3 clinical trial which was initiated in 2014 and completed subject enrollment in October 2015. Based on the guidance that we received from the FDA, we believe that this additional trial will address all of the clinical issues raised in the CRL. Following completion of this additional 

Phase 3 clinical trial, we will respond to the CRL and supplement our NDA with the results of the trial. 

We intend to commercialize Twirla in the United States, if approved, through a direct sales force. Obstetricians and gynecologists, or ObGyns, contribute 43% of the U.S. contraception prescription volume, and Nurse Practitioners and Physician Assistants, or NP/PAs, who are often affiliated with an ObGyn practice, contribute an additional 27% of the U.S. prescriptions. We believe that we can address this market with a specialty sales force of approximately 70 to 100 representatives. We also intend to augment our sales force through digital marketing and other techniques to market directly to patients. 

Our Skinfusion technology makes Twirla the first patch capable of delivering a contraceptive dose of LNG across the skin, allowing weekly application using a patch that is soft and flexible and is designed to adhere well with low levels of skin irritation. We, along with Corium International, Inc., or Corium, our manufacturing partner, have made a significant investment in a proprietary process to manufacture Twirla. We believe we have developed a robust process to reliably manufacture Twirla on a commercial scale. The materials produced for our clinical trials were manufactured using the same process that we expect will be used for our commercial-scale manufacturing, and we have made a significant investment in equipment for commercial-scale manufacturing if Twirla is approved. We believe that the technical challenges and know-how involved in manufacturing, including proprietary chemistry, production to scale and use of custom equipment and reproducibility, present significant barriers to entry for other pharmaceutical companies who might potentially want to replicate our Skinfusion technology. 

Our intellectual property represents an additional barrier to potential competitors. We have twelve issued U.S. patents, eight of which cover Twirla and that we intend to list in the Orange Book, the last of which expires in 2028, and four that provide additional coverage for other product candidates in our pipeline. The Orange Book lists drug products, including related patent and exclusivity information, approved by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If a patent is listed in the Orange Book, potential competitors seeking approval of drug products under an Abbreviated New Drug Application, which provides for the marketing of a generic drug product that has the same active ingredients, dosage form, strength, route of administration, labeling, performance characteristics and intended use, among other things, of a previously approved product, or a 505(b)(2) application, for which the listed drug is a reference product, must provide a patent certification in their application stating either that (1) no patent information on the drug product has been submitted to the FDA; (2) such patent has expired; (3) the date on which such patent expires; or (4) such patent is invalid or will not be infringed upon by the manufacture, use or sale of the drug product for which the application is submitted. In addition, we continue to prosecute additional patent applications relating to Twirla, as well as our other product candidates, both in the United States and internationally. The intellectual property behind all of our product candidates in the pipeline and our Skinfusion technology consists of patent families developed and wholly-owned by us. There are no royalties or payments owed to third parties on our Skinfusion technology or any of our product candidates. 

In addition to Twirla, we are developing a pipeline of other new transdermal contraceptive products, including AG200-ER, which is a regimen designed to allow a woman to extend the length of her cycle, AG200-SP, which is a regimen designed to provide shorter lighter periods, and AG890, which is a progestin-only contraceptive patch intended for use by women who are unable or unwilling to take estrogen. 

Background 

Hormonal Contraception Overview 

A woman is biologically capable of pregnancy from the time of her first menstrual cycle, at the average age of 12.6 years, to natural menopause, at the average age of 51.3 years. This is nearly half of a typical woman's lifespan and, for the typical woman, the majority of this time frame is spent trying to avoid pregnancy or is characterized by no desire to become pregnant. Nearly half of the pregnancies that occur each year in the United States are unplanned. The United States was the first country to approve a hormonal contraceptive, with the approval of the first contraceptive pill in 1960. The latest data from 2011 to 2013 from the Centers for Disease Control, or CDC, indicate that approximately 28% of women aged 15 to 44 use some form of hormonal contraception, which amounts to approximately 17 million U.S. women. 

Hormonal contraceptives are composed of synthetic estrogens and progestins. Contraceptives containing both estrogen and a progestin are referred to as CHCs, and contraceptives containing only progestin are referred to as P-only. There are three synthetic estrogens approved for use in contraceptive products: EE, mestranol and estradiol valerate. EE has been available for over 40 years and is the estrogen component in nearly all CHCs today. There are 10 different progestins that have been used in contraceptives sold in the United States. The progestin component provides most of the contraceptive effect, while the estrogen component primarily provides cycle control, for example, minimizing bleeding or spotting between cycles. The progestin exerts its contraceptive effect by inhibiting ovulation, or release of an egg from the ovary, and by thickening cervical mucus. Thickening cervical mucus helps to prevent sperm entry into the upper genital tract. The estrogen component, in addition to providing cycle control, makes a small contribution to contraception by decreasing the maturation of the egg in the ovary. 

Hormonal contraceptives are generally well-tolerated and are generally safer than pregnancy. A risk associated with hormonal contraceptives is a rare but serious adverse event called venous thromboembolism, or VTE, which involves the formation of a blood clot in a vein. VTEs can be life-threatening, and typically present as either deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Evidence supports that the increased risk of VTE in CHC users is dependent upon the estrogen dose and duration of use. Estrogen increases formation of clotting factors in the liver and decreases production of elements that promote breakdown of blood clots. Most experts believe that progestins on their own have minimal to no impact on the clotting system, but some progestins, when combined with estrogen, can increase estrogen's effect on the clotting system. 

The likelihood of a woman spontaneously developing a VTE is extremely low and the use of combination oral contraceptives, or COCs, increases the incidence only slightly, and less than pregnancy. Epidemiologic studies evaluated by the FDA have demonstrated the incidence of VTE in women based on pregnancy or use of COCs as follows: 

Incidence of VTE Based on Pregnancy Status or use of COCs Population 

&#160; VTE incidence (cases per 10,000 woman years*) Non-pregnant woman who does not use a COC &#160; 1 to 5 COC users &#160; 3 to 12 Pregnant women &#160; 5 to 20 Postpartum women (in the 12 weeks following delivery) &#160; 40 to 65 

* One woman year is one woman using a contraceptive for one year, which is either 12 months or 13 cycles 

The available progestins are commonly categorized into generations, based on their history of introduction in the United States. The first and second generation progestins, including LNG, have been available in contraceptive formulations in the United States for over 25 years. The third and fourth generation progestins, for example desogestrel and drosperinone, respectively, were introduced to reduce androgenic side effects, such as oily skin and acne. Epidemiologic data suggest that CHCs containing third and fourth generation progestins are associated with an increased risk of VTE as compared to those containing the second generation progestin, LNG. 

Effectiveness of Hormonal Contraceptives 

For the purpose of FDA approval, contraceptive effectiveness is measured by a calculation called the Pearl Index, or PI. The PI is a measure of the rate of pregnancies over a specific period of time in a clinical trial, and is expressed as the number of pregnancies per 100 woman years, or WY, of use. Each cycle lasts 28 days, so there are approximately 13 cycles in one year. According to FDA guidance, the PI calculation includes all pregnancies, but only includes cycles where the woman indicates that she engaged in sexual activity and did not use backup contraception, such as a condom, and where she has completed a study diary. The PI values from clinical trials are affected by several factors, including differences in study design, increased sensitivity of early pregnancy tests, weight and body mass index, or BMI, of the study population, user experience and inconsistent or incorrect use of the contraceptive method. 

The contraceptive failure rates in clinical trials are generally lower than those seen once a CHC is approved and in use by a broad population, referred to as typical use, without the close monitoring of a clinical trial setting. There is a large difference in pregnancy rates under conditions of perfect use, where the method is used following the directions exactly, and typical use. For example, for CHCs, including oral contraceptives, the vaginal ring and the transdermal patch, the percent of women experiencing an unintended pregnancy during the first year of use is 0.3% for perfect use and 9.0% for typical use. 

U.S. Hormonal Contraceptive Market Background 

Contraceptive methods, other than sterilization, can be divided into non-hormonal and hormonal alternatives. Non-hormonal products available in the United States include the diaphragm, male condom and female condom. There are several categories of hormonal contraception products available in the United States, including: 

&#149; oral contraceptive; &#149; vaginal ring; &#149; transdermal patch; &#149; intrauterine contraceptive device, or IUD; &#149; subcutaneous implant; and &#149; injectable. The U.S. hormonal contraceptive market recorded annual sales in 2015 of approximately $5.6 billion, according to IMS Health. The CHC portion of the market, consisting of pills, a transdermal patch and a vaginal ring, generates significantly greater prescription volume and sales compared to the P-only portion of the market, consisting of IUDs, injectables, implants, and P-only pills. In 2015, IMS Health reported total U.S. sales of $4.04 billion for the CHC market and $1.51 billion for the P-only market. Twirla is a CHC and, if approved, we believe it will compete primarily with products in the CHC market. 

The U.S. hormonal contraceptive market is a mature market, with many branded and generic products available. In the past 10 years, the market growth was flat to declining as measured by prescription volume, with the exception of a 4.8% increase in 2013 compared to 2012. The average annual growth rate in dollar sales for the five years ended December 31, 2015 was 3.1% for the total hormonal contraceptive market and 0.6% for the CHC market. Market growth in gross sales is primarily due to price increases amongst branded products. 

We believe there are two possible factors primarily affecting prescription volume growth in the contraceptive market. First, according to U.S. Census Bureau data and projections, the population of women aged 15 to 44 years has been growing at a rate of approximately 0.4% to 0.5% per year since 2011, increasing this population by 250,000 to 300,000 women per year. 

Contraceptive Population (Total women aged 15-44 yrs) 

Source: U.S. Census Bureau, National projections released 2008 based on 2000 census data. Second, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the ACA, was signed into law, which, among other things, requires all health plans, with limited exceptions, to cover certain preventive services for women with no cost-sharing, which means no deductible, no co-insurance and no co-payments by the patient, effective August 1, 2012. These services include those set forth in the Guidelines for Women's Preventive Services, or HRSA Guidelines, and adopted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health Resources and Services Administration. Contraceptive methods and counseling, including all FDA approved contraceptive methods as prescribed, are included in the HRSA Guidelines. Since these new ACA provisions went into effect in August 2012, quarterly prescription volume growth for the CHC market rose from negative growth year-on-year to positive growth between 4.0% and 5.0% for each of the six quarters following implementation. However, this appears to be a temporary phenomenon, as the market volume growth fell to 0.8% in 2014 and &#150;0.9% in 2015. 

Effect of ACA on Market Growth 

Source: IMS National Prescription Audit, IMS Health During the period following enactment of the ACA, generic oral contraceptives have shown the greatest growth, primarily at the expense of branded oral contraceptives. This is likely due to the policies that were implemented by many managed care plans, which generally only provided generic oral contraceptives with no cost-sharing to the patient. The effect on non-oral products is less clear, but prescription volume for the vaginal ring showed a 5.1% decline from 2013 to 2015, while the prescription volume for the patch increased by 15.0% over the same time period. In May 2015, several government agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor, or DOL, and the U.S. Department of Treasury, or Treasury, issued a clarification in the form of an FAQ which clarified the requirements for coverage of contraceptives under the ACA. The FAQ states that plans and issuers must cover without cost-sharing at least one form of contraception in each of the 18 current methods that the FDA has identified for women in its current Birth Control Guide. The patch is identified as a specific method in the FDA Birth Control Guide, and therefore insurers must cover at least one patch product with no cost-sharing to the patient. Because this clarifying guidance will be applied for plan years (or in the individual market, policy years) beginning on or after 60 days from the date of publication of the FAQs, patients will not have the benefit of this clarification until their new plan year, which generally started in January 2016. Therefore, it is too early to determine the full effect of the ACA on our business. We believe the CHC market will maintain a long-term neutral to slightly positive annual growth rate in line with contraceptive population growth. 

In spite of the availability of generic contraceptives for over 25 years, branded products have maintained a significant share of the CHC market, with 59% of dollar sales and 20% of prescriptions for 2015. Branded contraceptives in the CHC market have driven significant increases in the value of branded total prescriptions, or TRx. In the five years ended December 2015, the average annual price increase among the top branded products was 11.2%. The average price per cycle, referred to as the wholesale acquisition cost, or WAC, for a single 28-day cycle of the top branded products was $41.53 in 2006 and rose to $117.18 by December 2015. As of October 2014, the branded CHC transdermal patch (Ortho Evra) has been discontinued, and the generic CHC transdermal patch (Xulane) is currently priced at $105.92 per cycle. The other non-oral form of CHC, the vaginal ring, is currently priced at $111.10 per cycle. We cannot predict whether the manufacturers of branded products will continue to increase prices going forward, but we believe we will be able to set a WAC price for Twirla, if 

approved, that is comparable to other branded CHC products at the time of launch. Based on IMS Health data, we estimate that each percentage point of market share of CHC total prescriptions in the United States currently represents approximately $152 million of annual gross sales potential for Twirla, if approved. 

Contraceptive Pills 

Based on data from the CDC, of women who choose to use a hormonal contraceptive, approximately 64% use the contraceptive pill, vaginal ring or patch, the majority of which use the contraceptive pill. We believe that contraceptive pills are the most popular choice because: 

&#149; patients and physicians are familiar with pills; &#149; pills were the first to market and have been aggressively promoted for a long period of time; &#149; historically, pills have been a covered benefit with good reimbursement in private and public healthcare plans; and &#149; pills are a non-invasive option. However, compliance remains a significant draw-back with pills. Published studies have shown that the average woman who uses oral contraceptives misses approximately two to four pills per month, which increases the potential for unintended pregnancies. We believe that a patch can offer greater convenience than a pill, as it does not require daily administration and, for certain women, could lead to greater compliance and ease of use. 

Contraceptive Patch Market Experience 

The Ortho Evra&#174; contraceptive patch, or Evra, was introduced in early 2002 and was the first FDA-approved contraceptive patch. The initial approved labeling for Evra indicated that it delivered a daily EE dose of 20 micrograms. Evra had rapid uptake in the contraceptive market, and achieved a 10% share of the CHC market by September 2003. Following FDA approval of Evra, users of Evra began to report thrombotic and thromboembolic events to the FDA. Johnson &#38; Johnson, the manufacturer of Evra, revised the Evra labeling in November 2005 to include information that EE exposure with Evra is 60% higher than that of an oral contraceptive containing EE of 35 micrograms, based on area under the curve, a commonly-used metric for measuring EE exposure in contraceptives. This information was ultimately included in a black box warning and bolded warnings unique to the Evra label. The Evra market share declined rapidly following the labeling changes, from a peak share of 11% in 2005, to 4% by the end of 2006, to 1.4% by the end of 2013, where it stabilized, with a 1.5% share of the market based on combined prescriptions for Evra and its generic equivalent in 2014. In 2015, the patch share of the CHC market grew slightly, with a 1.6% TRx share for 2015. 

In April 2014, Mylan Inc. announced the launch of Xulane&#153;, a generic version of Evra. Generic pharmaceutical products are the chemical and pharmaceutical equivalents of the brand or a reference listed drug, or RLD. Generic drugs are bioequivalent to their reference brand name counterparts. Bioequivalence studies compare the bioavailability of the proposed drug product with that of the RLD product containing the same active ingredients. Bioavailability is a measure of the rate and extent to which the active ingredient is absorbed from a drug product and becomes available at the site of action. Under pharmacy dispensing rules governed by state law, depending on the state, if an automatic generic substitute is introduced, the pharmacist may dispense either the prescribed product, or they may replace it with an equivalent generic without being required to inform the patient or healthcare professional. In addition, the FDA offers a 180-day exclusivity period for generic products in specific cases. The first generic applicants to submit a substantially complete Abbreviated New Drug Application containing a paragraph IV certification to a listed patent are protected from competition from other generic versions of the same drug for the 180 days. As of December 2015, no other generic equivalents to Evra have been introduced. 

The FDA has maintained, in spite of the wording in the labeling for Evra and its approved generic, that none of the epidemiologic studies to date provides a definitive answer regarding the relative risk of VTE with Evra compared to combined oral contraceptive use or whether the increased risk that some studies demonstrated is directly attributable to Evra. An advisory committee for the FDA stated that the benefits of Evra outweigh the risks. In its denial of a Citizen's Petition calling for the withdrawal of Evra, the FDA followed the committee's recommendations stating that the increased VTE risk does not warrant removal from the market, and that the labeling revisions to the Evra label provide an update and guidance on the interpretation of the epidemiologic data about the risk of VTE with Evra. In spite of the labeling changes, and Johnson &#38; Johnson ceasing promotion of Evra in 2007, Evra and its generic equivalent generated $165 million in gross sales in 2015. 

We believe that the rapid uptake and acceptance of Evra upon its introduction demonstrates that there is an unmet market need for a transdermal patch as a contraceptive option. Also, the epidemiologic data on VTE risk suggest that there is a need for a contraceptive patch that delivers both a low dose of EE similar to oral contraceptives and a first or second generation progestin. 

Our Product Candidates 

Each of our product candidates utilizes our proprietary Skinfusion technology, which is designed to provide advantages over the currently available patch. Skinfusion is designed to deliver contraceptive levels of hormones to the blood stream through the skin over a seven-day period. It is also designed to optimize patch adherence and stability and patient comfort. Our lead product candidate is Twirla, a prescription CHC patch which contains both EE and LNG and is designed to deliver a low dose of EE and LNG comparable to the total dose delivered with low-dose oral contraceptives. In addition to Twirla, we are developing a pipeline of other new transdermal contraceptive products, including AG200-ER, which is a regimen designed to allow a woman to extend the length of her cycle and AG200-SP, which is a regimen designed to provide shorter, lighter monthly withdrawal bleeding. We are also developing AG890, which is a P-only prescription contraceptive patch intended for use by women who are unable or unwilling to take estrogen. The National Institutes of Health, through a clinical trial agreement with us, conducted a Phase 1/2 trial with AG890. The Phase 1/2 study was a multicenter study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and mechanisms of potential contraceptive efficacy of AG890. The trial is complete and we continue to evaluate the findings. After we complete our evaluation, we may need to perform additional patch development work to determine the optimal formulation and dose to advance to Phase 3. Based upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our available capital resources and feedback from the FDA, we continue to review the clinical path and budgetary requirements for each of AG200-SP, AG200-ER and AG890. 

Our current product candidate pipeline is summarized in the graphic below: 

* Data from trial is under evaluation Twirla Product Overview 

Twirla is a CHC patch which contains both EE and LNG. Twirla is designed to address an unmet medical need for increased compliance and improved ease of use as compared to oral contraceptives. A single Twirla patch delivers the active ingredients LNG and EE over a seven-day dosing interval, and thereby eliminates the need to take a daily pill as is necessary with an oral contraceptive. Twirla uses a traditional 28-day contraceptive regimen, where one patch is applied weekly for three consecutive weeks and then there is a fourth patch-free week in each 28-day time period. Twirla may be applied to the buttock, abdomen or upper torso, but not the breast. In clinical trials reported to date, women most frequently chose the buttock and abdomen for patch placement. The exact patch location needs to be rotated with each patch change. Twirla has demonstrated a therapeutically equivalent pharmacokinetic profile when worn on the buttock, abdomen or upper torso. A drug's pharmacokinetic profile refers to the specific way in which a given drug is handled by the body over time, reflecting the particular patterns of absorption, distribution and elimination of the drug in the body. 

Twirla is designed to be highly appealing to patients as a method of contraception. The patch is round and made of a soft, flexible, silky fabric, designed to flex with the movement of a woman's body. Twirla is a matrix patch consisting of several layers of material that contain the active ingredients EE and LNG, as well as the inactive ingredients Dimethylsulfoxide, Ethyl Lactate, Capric Acid and Lauryl Lactate, which are ingredients to assist in the transport of EE and LNG across the skin, and adhesives that enable adherence to the skin. The final top layer is the one seen on the skin, and consists of a thin, silky material consisting of only adhesive. There is a barrier formed between the inner portion of the patch, which contains the active ingredients, and the outer portion of the patch, which only contains the adhesive. This barrier is intended to prevent the active and inactive ingredients from migrating to the peripheral portion of the patch, and from breaking down the adhesive in that portion of the patch. Twirla is also designed to help prevent seepage of the adhesives from around the edge of the patch where it could collect dirt and leave a sticky black ring on the skin. The six layers of the patch are integrated to create a patch which has a slim profile, and is unobtrusive when applied. The results of multiple clinical trials suggest that Twirla delivers the active ingredients needed for contraception over a seven-day period and that it remains adhered to the skin of most subjects for the full seven-day period, even under conditions of heat, humidity, showering, exposure to water and vigorous exercise. 

Twirla Patch Profile 

The following table compares Twirla with the Evra product and its generic equivalent, Xulane, as stated in their labels, based upon publicly-available information regarding the products and the 

characteristics of Twirla and other Twirla attributes observed in our completed Phase 3 clinical trials. We have not performed a head-to-head comparison of Twirla to Evra. 

Characteristic 

&#160; Twirla &#160; Ortho Evra*/Xulane Form of product &#160; Transdermal patch Round, approximately 28 square centimeters Soft, silky, stretchy fabric &#160; Transdermal patch Square, Evra approximately 20 square centimeters; Xulane approximately 14 square centimeters Smooth, plastic film Active ingredients &#160; EE, LNG &#160; EE, norelgestromin Pharmacokinetic profile of EE per day &#160; ~30 micrograms &#160; 60% higher than that of an oral contraceptive containing 35 micrograms (~56 micrograms)** Regimen &#160; One patch weekly 21 days active / 7 days patch-free &#160; Same as Twirla; Package configurations &#160; 1 box of 3 patches = 1 cycle 1 box with 1 patch = replacement &#160; Evra is same as Twirla; Xulane is 1 box of 3 patches only Top four adverse events/reactions in completed clinical trials &#160; Nausea 3.0% Application site irritation 2.4% Breast tenderness 2.1% Headache 2.0%*** &#160; Breast symptoms 22.4% Headache 21.0% Application site disorders 17.1% Nausea 16.6% 

* Source of Ortho Evra and Xulane data are U.S. prescribing information or package inserts. ** The Ortho Evra and Xulane package inserts indicate a strength of 35 micrograms of EE per day. *** Adverse events deemed definitely, probably or possibly related to Twirla in completed Phase 3 clinical trials. 

Twirla &#160; Evra 

Twirla employs our Skinfusion patch technology, resulting in a unique appearance and feel of the patch. Evra/Xulane does not utilize our Skinfusion technology; its active ingredients and adhesives are dispersed to its edges. One frequent complaint about patches that do not utilize Skinfusion is that they collect dirt and lint and may leave a sticky black ring of residue on the skin which can be difficult to remove. We do not have any direct comparison of the appearance of the patch on the skin at the end of seven days between Twirla and Evra/Xulane, but we believe, based on anecdotal feedback from our clinical trial investigators, as well as based upon the differences in the design of the patches, that Twirla may have an advantage in this regard. 

We have not performed a head-to-head comparison of Twirla to Evra/Xulane, however, a pharmacokinetic study that we conducted with Twirla was similar in design to the pharmacokinetic study conducted with Evra that provided the information regarding the daily amount of EE delivered that is currently in the Evra/Xulane package insert. The figure below combines the results for average EE concentrations from these two studies, and suggests a comparison of the observed blood concentration of EE for Twirla versus Evra versus observed and estimated data for the pill. The lower amount of EE delivered from Twirla as compared to Evra can be observed. If Twirla is approved by the FDA, we will not be able to make direct comparative claims regarding the safety, efficacy or pharmacokinetics of Twirla and Evra/Xulane, since none of our completed clinical trials studied, nor does our contemplated additional Phase 3 clinical trial expect to study, Twirla in a head-to-head comparison with Evra/Xulane. 

EE Concentrations (pg/ml) 

The Evra curve presented in the graphic above was estimated based on the graph provided in the Evra label. In the legend to the figure above, "OC" refers to an oral contraceptive containing 35 micrograms of EE. The OC data prior to Day 21 are estimated steady-state data based on Day 21 EE concentrations observed during our pharmacokinetic study. 

Twirla contains LNG, which is the progestin used as the reference standard when comparing risk of VTE between progestins. Evra/Xulane contains the progestin norelgestromin, which is a prodrug of norgestimate, a second generation progestin that has not demonstrated an increased risk of VTE independent of EE. We do not expect any meaningful clinical differences between Twirla and Evra/Xulane based on the progestin component, but our market research with ObGyns has demonstrated that they perceive LNG to be one of the safest progestins available. 

Twirla Product Profile 

Assuming completion of a successful additional Phase 3 clinical trial and approval of our marketing application by the FDA, we believe the clinical trial data from the ongoing Phase 3 trial (SECURE) for Twirla will support our future marketing of Twirla as follows: 

&#149; Twirla is a weekly contraceptive patch, designed to offer convenience and compliance. &#149; Twirla is designed to meet the contraceptive needs and the busy lifestyle of today's women. &#149; Twirla contains the active ingredients EE and LNG, both of which have been used in contraceptives for over 25 years. &#149; Twirla delivers the low daily dose of EE of approximately 30 micrograms, comparable to low-dose oral contraceptives. &#149; Twirla is designed to demonstrate efficacy comparable to other approved prescription contraceptives. 16 

&#149; Twirla has a favorable safety and tolerability profile. &#149; Twirla was designed with Skinfusion technology, which has demonstrated adhesion over the seven-day wear period, even under conditions of heat, humidity, showering, exposure to water and vigorous exercise. &#149; Because Twirla contains the progestin LNG, we believe that the final approved label for Twirla will be consistent with the class labeling for other contraceptives containing EE and LNG, including the class black box warning. Twirla Clinical Development Program 

Completed Clinical Trials 

Our clinical program includes three Phase 1 studies, one Phase 2 study, and three Phase 3 studies, as well as other supporting studies. We are currently conducting the third Phase 3 study in response to FDA comments and guidance. In Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, we demonstrated that Twirla delivers levels of both EE and LNG to the blood stream that are consistent with currently marketed low-dose oral contraceptives. In our completed Phase 3 clinical trials, we demonstrated that Twirla was comparable to an approved low-dose oral contraceptive in two randomized studies, one that enrolled over 1,500 women over 12 months and the other that enrolled over 400 women over six months. Across all completed clinical trials, Twirla was generally well-tolerated and had a favorable safety profile. Because we relied, in part, on the FDA's findings of safety and efficacy from investigations for approved products containing EE and LNG and published scientific literature for which we have not obtained a right of reference, we were not required to conduct preclinical studies. In the pharmacokinetic study comparing Twirla to an approved low-dose oral contraceptive, results demonstrated that Twirla delivers a daily dose of EE that results in estrogen exposure similar to low-dose oral contraceptives containing approximately 30 micrograms. 

Our two completed Phase 3 trials enrolled over 1,900 subjects to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Twirla. Each of these studies included an active comparator arm with an approved low-dose oral contraceptive. The results of these studies demonstrated that Twirla was generally well-tolerated, with levels of adverse events generally comparable to those of low-dose oral contraceptives. In these studies, subjects had a higher rate of self-reported compliance when using the patch as compared with the group using oral contraceptives. However, as discussed further below, the FDA issued a CRL in response to our marketing application for Twirla and requested an additional Phase 3 study and additional chemistry manufacturing and control, or CMC, information. The results of the larger of our Phase 3 clinical trials demonstrated that approximately only 3% of patches became completely detached from the skin of subjects during the seven-day period, and that the patch generally remained adhered to the skin even when exposed to normal daily activities and conditions such as showering, swimming and other forms of exercise, heat and humidity. 

More specifically, our safety population included subjects who received at least one dose of Twirla or COC. In the combined safety population of our completed Phase 3 trials, there were a total of 22 serious adverse events, or SAEs, of which 16 were from the Twirla cohort, which had approximately 2.3 times as many subjects as the oral contraceptive comparator cohort. Three of these SAEs (0.2% of the overall Twirla safety population) were considered to be possibly related to the study drug and included one drug overdose with Benadryl&#174;, one case of uncontrollable nausea and vomiting and one instance of deep vein thrombosis. In addition to the SAEs described above, some subjects taking Twirla experienced non-serious adverse events, such as nausea, headache, application site irritation and breast tenderness. Subjects receiving the oral contraceptive comparator also generally experienced similar non-serious adverse events such as nausea, headache, and breast tenderness, though at different rates. We believe that Twirla will have a label consistent with all marketed low-dose CHC products, which include class labeling that warns of risks of certain serious conditions, including venous and arterial 

blood clots, such as heart attacks, thromboembolism and stroke, as well as liver tumors, gallbladder disease and hypertension, and a black box warning regarding risks of smoking and CHC use and particularly in women over 35 years old that smoke. 

In our Phase 3 trials, the primary measure of efficacy is the Pearl Index, or PI, which is calculated based on the number of observed on-treatment pregnancies and total number of on-treatment cycles during the study. Specifically, the PI is expressed as the number of pregnancies per 100 WY of use. The pooled PI value in the completed Phase 3 trials for the Twirla patch was 5.76 and for the combined oral contraceptive control arms was 6.72, which were higher than the range of 1.34 to 3.19 in pivotal studies conducted on products approved by the FDA in the previous ten years. In addition, the upper bound of the associated confidence intervals were higher than seen in clinical trials used for registration of other approved hormonal contraceptives. 

We believe that the results for both the patch and oral contraceptive control arms in the two completed Phase 3 trials were affected primarily by issues with study conduct at several study sites, including rapid enrollment which led to inability to manage the study population, poor subject compliance, and high rates of loss to follow-up. In the larger of our completed Phase 3 clinical trials, 96 sites enrolled subjects, 60 of which had no on-treatment pregnancies. Nineteen percent of the on-treatment pregnancies reported during this trial came from one site. This site represented approximately 8% of the randomized subject population. Thirty six percent of on-treatment pregnancies were reported at four of the 96 sites. These four sites represented approximately 15% of the randomized subject population. 

Experts agree that the characteristic most likely to impact contraceptive failure and pregnancy rates is the subject's likelihood of using a method inconsistently or incorrectly. Consistent with expert opinions, our analyses have suggested that the results for both the patch and oral contraceptive control arms in the two completed Phase 3 trials were also affected in part by the study population, which comprised a disproportionately high number of new users and minority subjects, known to be at higher risk of noncompliance and pregnancy, as compared to the majority of other recent CHC clinical trials which have gained approval in the United States. 

Individuals who immediately switch from one hormonal contraception method to another, referred to as current users, or who have recently used another method of hormonal contraception, are less likely to experience contraceptive failure than a new user because they are less likely to have inconsistent or incorrect use. These experienced subjects are often selected for trial participation because their inclusion will lower failure rates. Indeed, many contraceptive trials have enrolled a high proportion of these subjects. Direct comparisons across multiple trials are limited by differences in study design and population, as well as differences in definitions of user status; however, as shown in the table below, some comparisons are possible. For example, when compared against trials that captured current hormonal contraceptive use, in the larger of our two completed Phase 3 trials, we had a lower proportion of subjects randomized to receive Twirla that were current users, only 17.8%, reflecting a population with less experience using hormonal contraception, compared to two recently approved hormonal contraceptives. When compared against trials that categorized subject experience more broadly by their use of hormonal contraception within the 6 months prior to enrollment, our trial also had a lower proportion of experienced subjects, only 44%. In both the COC and Twirla groups, new users had approximately three times the rate of noncompliance compared to experienced users, as verified through blood tests revealing non-detectable blood levels of EE and LNG. Similarly, the pooled PI values from our completed Phase 3 clinical trials were more than twice as high among new users compared to experienced users, and in the primary efficacy analysis population there were no pregnancies observed in current users of other hormonal contraception who immediately switched to the patch upon entry into the trial. 

In addition, our two completed Phase 3 clinical trials also included a higher proportion of black and Hispanic subjects than most recent hormonal contraceptive trials. Although the underlying reasons are not well-understood, several articles in medical journals, such as Contraception and the American Journal of Obstetrics &#38; Gynecology , and in at least one report by HHS, state that contraceptive failure rates are highest in black and Hispanic subjects. In our two completed Phase 3 trials, rates of laboratory-verified noncompliance were substantially higher in blacks and Hispanics compared to non-Hispanic white subjects in the larger of our Phase 3 trials, and as shown in the table below, there were substantially higher PI values in the black and Hispanic subpopulations than in non-Hispanic white subjects. Additionally, as shown in the table the observed PI values were more dramatically increased for new users who were also black or Hispanic. 

Study Population Demographics in Selected Contraception Trials 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Contraceptive Product (Year of Approval) % of subjects in category* &#160; Parameter 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Twirla &#160; Seasonique (2006) &#160; Yaz (2006) &#160; Lo- Seasonique (2008) &#160; Natazia (2010) &#160; Quartette (2013) &#160; Hormonal contraception use &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Current Users &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 18 (a) &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 60 (b) &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 59 (c) &#160; &#151; &#160; Within 6m of enrollment &#160; Yes(d) &#160; &#160; 44 &#160; &#160; 68 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 61 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 44 &#160; &#160; No(e) &#160; &#160; 56 &#160; &#160; 32 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 39 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 56 &#160; Race/ethnicity &#160; Hispanic &#160; &#160; 15 &#160; &#160; 5 &#160; &#160; 5 &#160; &#160; 10 &#160; &#160; 13 &#160; &#160; 11 &#160; &#160; Black &#160; &#160; 22 &#160; &#160; 11 &#160; &#160; 4 &#160; &#160; 12 &#160; &#160; 7 &#160; &#160; 18 &#160; 

* Table includes subjects randomized to Twirla in our larger Phase 3 clinical trial. The data pertaining to the approved drug products were derived from multiple studies, with differing study designs, as reported in the FDA medical review documents for each product. Current user definitions (extrapolated for approved products): 

(a) Used a hormonal contraceptive within 7 days of enrollment. (b) Using an oral contraceptive at screening, just prior to study start. (c) Using oral contraceptives prior to study start. Use within 6 months of enrollment definitions: 

(d) Twirla: recent and current users; Quartette/Seasonique/Lo-Seasonique: continuous users. (e) Twirla: new users; Seasonique/LoSeasonique: fresh start and prior users; Quartette: new start and prior user. 

Twirla Pearl Indices Stratified By New Users and Minority Subjects 

Parameter 

&#160; Demographic &#160; Pearl Index* &#160; Race/ethnicity &#160; White (not Hispanic) &#160; &#160; 3.6 &#160; &#160; Hispanic &#160; &#160; 5.0 &#160; &#160; Black &#160; &#160; 15.1 &#160; Previous contraceptive use status &#160; New users(a) &#160; &#160; 8.7 &#160; &#160; Experienced users(b) &#160; &#160; 3.0 &#160; &#160; Current users(c) &#160; &#160; 0.0 &#160; Race/ethnicity and Previous contraceptive use status &#160; Hispanic subjects who were new users &#160; &#160; 7.5 &#160; &#160; Black subjects who were new users &#160; &#160; 16.0 &#160; 

* Table includes the pooled PI values for subjects in the primary efficacy analysis population randomized to Twirla. (a) New users = never used hormonal contraception or had not used hormonal contraception in the 6 months prior to enrollment. (b) Experienced users = recent (used a hormonal contraceptive within 6 months of enrollment) and current users. (c) Current users = subjects who used a hormonal contraceptive within seven days of enrollment. 

CRL and FDA Interactions 

In February 2013, we received a CRL from the FDA indicating that the results from our two completed Phase 3 trials would not be sufficient for approval, and the FDA proposed that we conduct an additional Phase 3 trial. Among the comments expressed in the letter were some regarding the PI values seen in the studies. Specifically, the FDA indicated that the PI values and the upper bound of the associated confidence intervals in the studies, in both the subjects using the Twirla patch and the control arm using oral contraceptives, were higher than seen in clinical trials used for registration of other approved hormonal contraceptives. The confidence interval is a range around a measurement that conveys how precise a measurement is. The FDA recommended that we conduct an additional Phase 3 trial with a simplified clinical trial design and improved study conduct, including site monitoring and data collection procedures. The FDA also required additional information relating to the laser etching of label information on each patch and required that the patch used in the new trial utilize the same etching as will be used for the commercial product, in order to demonstrate that it does not adversely affect the performance of the patch. Furthermore, the FDA also requested in the CRL additional information on controls and release specifications related to the patch, and manufacturing and control information related to the Drug Master File of one of the raw materials in Twirla. 

In October 2013, we met with the FDA and received further guidance on requirements for our planned Phase 3 trial. In addition, we had a follow-up written interaction with the FDA in February 2014 and have received substantial written comments from the FDA in subsequent interactions. We enrolled the first subject in the SECURE study in the third quarter of 2014, and completed enrollment in October 2015. The patches being studied in the SECURE study are laser etched using the same process as we anticipate for commercialization of Twirla, if approved. We will continue additional supportive testing in order to respond to the FDA's CMC questions. 

The SECURE study, our third Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

Our third Phase 3 clinical trial is intended to address a number of issues identified in the CRL, including but not limited to, a simplified trial design, study conduct, recruitment of study population and compliance. We have designed and are conducting the SECURE study as follows: 

&#149; Single-arm study; &#149; Over 2,000 female subjects will receive Twirla for up to one year; &#149; Approximately 100 sites located in the United States with experience in conducting contraceptive studies; &#149; The subjects are using an electronic diary to record the data that are critical to the calculation of the PI, such as sexual activity, back-up contraception use, and patch usage and adhesion; and &#149; We will assess patch adhesion based on a quantifiable daily subject assessment of percent adherence of the patch to the skin. By not having a comparator, we will increase the number of cycles collected for the primary efficacy analysis. The single-arm design will also substantially reduce the complexity of statistical analyses required to interpret the results of the trial and will reduce uncertainty around interpretation of any unexpected differences in observed PI values between Twirla and a comparator arm that could occur. Importantly, the simplified protocol design should also be easier for clinical sites to understand and implement. In addition, we believe that having no oral contraceptive comparator will attract subjects who are interested in participating in the transdermal method as opposed to subjects who may be at higher risk for early discontinuation from the study if randomized to the patch. We believe this phenomenon occurred in the larger of our completed Phase 3 clinical trials and may have contributed to the early observed discontinuation rate. 

We have engaged Parexel International Corporation, or Parexel, a CRO with substantial experience in contraception studies and excellent site monitoring capabilities, as the CRO for the SECURE study. We actively participated in site selection and in monitoring subject recruitment, and actively participate in site monitoring and oversight of Parexel's activities, and will continue to do so throughout the length of the trial. Our CRO was selected based not only on the above criteria, but on a clear track record of responding to trends and information through early intervention in order to assure compliance with trial procedures at both the subject and site levels. 

The SECURE study is employing several measures designed to improve upon one aspect of prior study conduct: loss to follow-up. First, the SECURE study is being conducted in approximately 100 sites in the United States that have experience conducting contraceptive trials and experienced study coordinators. Study sites have been evaluated extensively for their prior hormonal birth control trial experience through a data-driven approach assessing performance on previous clinical studies, staffing of experienced study coordinators with longevity at the site, demographics of potential study subjects, and audit history. Technology employed by our contract research organization, or CRO, in coordination with our clinical team will enable more focused oversight of participating sites and facilitate more individualized attention to enrolled study subjects, as compared to our previous Phase 3 study. Training of study coordinators at the investigator meeting, at study initiation visits, at coordinator's meetings, and through ongoing communication should also reduce loss to follow-up. In addition, study sites that are showing early trends toward higher rates of loss to follow-up or overall poor study management will be re-trained and, if necessary, discontinued. Upon subject enrollment, sites will also ask for multiple methods of contact for each subject, and will obtain permission to contact family members and utilize public records to locate subjects who are lost to follow-up. 

After site selection, recruitment of the study population is the next crucial step toward achievement of a population that will provide reliable and generalizable data in the SECURE study. 

We have trained our sites to provide individualized attention to recruitment of subjects who are most likely to adhere to the study protocol with respect to compliance, including correct patch application, timing of patch removal and replacement, electronic diary, or e-diary, completion and study visits. Potential subjects are carefully screened for ability, motivation and willingness to comply with all of the study visits and other requirements. Study coordinators and investigators have received in-depth training on selection of appropriate subjects prior to beginning subject enrollment, and these criteria have been reviewed throughout the study enrollment period. Subjects are also advised through the informed consent process that noncompliance with study procedures may lead to discontinuation from the trial. In addition, each site provided real-time recruitment information to the CRO throughout the recruitment process, which facilitated enrollment of the appropriate subject population. Enrollment of the SECURE study was completed in October 2015. The demographics of the subjects recruited into the SECURE study are consistent with our goals of a broadly representative patient population, and fewer than 20% of subjects are naive to hormonal contraception. 

A number of measures have been put in place in order to facilitate compliance with study procedures. To ensure subjects are adequately educated regarding their responsibilities during the trial, a detailed subject teaching plan has been developed and implemented, and subject education regarding the importance of compliance, including videos, brochures and one-to-one education with study coordinators, is provided at repeated intervals throughout the study. In addition, following completion of enrollment, we have held live meetings with groups of study coordinators to reinforce study procedures to facilitate compliance. A number of measures have been put in place to support and monitor compliance through the study. One key measure is the use of e-diary and text message technology, which provides personalized reminders to subjects for patch application, diary completion and study visits, measures we believe will improve overall subject compliance. Phone contact with subjects between visits is part of the study protocol, which will increase the frequency of contact with subjects throughout the study. 

The electronic diary platform being utilized in the SECURE study is PHT's LogPad&#174; system, a handheld device specifically designed for subject-entered data capture. In addition to contributing to improved compliance, the use of e-diary technology may also contribute to improved data quality and completeness in the SECURE study. Subjects use their e-diaries to record the data that are critical to the calculation of the PI, including sexual activity and use of back-up contraception. Subjects also record their bleeding patterns and patch adherence using a new, more precise scale. During the study screening period, subjects received comprehensive training on use of the e-diaries and were required to demonstrate both appropriate use and ability to comply with the study protocol during a two-week run-in period in order to be enrolled in the study. The diaries are designed to be simple and easy-to-use, and to enhance data quality, and have built-in prompts to avoid subject error in data entry. As the subjects enter data into the e-diaries, information is transmitted to the vendor database and is available for real-time review by the Agile team, the CRO and our study monitors. The CRO and our study monitors analyze individual subject and site data and can immediately implement additional training or intervention with study site coordinators and subjects as needed, including potentially discontinuing noncompliant sites or subjects. Real-time e-diary and study visit data also potentially minimize the number of subjects lost to follow-up. By selecting an appropriate subject population and implementing the compliance measures described above, we anticipate that the number of pregnancies will be reduced as compared to the previous Phase 3 studies. None of these real-time measures were utilized in our previous clinical trials. We believe we have designed and are implementing a clinical trial that addresses the feedback provided by the FDA in the CRL and additional guidance we have received in subsequent interactions with the FDA. 

An independent Pregnancy Review Committee comprised of experts has been selected to review all pregnancies and determine on or off-treatment status, which will affect the numerator of the PI calculation. Accurate and timely pregnancy adjudication is critically important in order to reduce the 

likelihood that pregnancies which occur off treatment will be included by the FDA during the review process. In order to avoid pre- or post-treatment pregnancies being included, every pregnancy will be assessed via ultrasound as soon as possible and full data will be collected regarding the relationship of the pregnancy to the subject's use of Twirla. Based on the observations regarding the clustering of pregnancies at a few sites during our completed Phase 3 trials, we believe that focused attention to ensuring full implementation of the compliance measures at every site will substantially reduce the overall incidence of pregnancies during the SECURE study. We did not have an independent Pregnancy Review Committee for our previous clinical trials. 

The observed PI values will not only be impacted by the number of pregnancies that occur in the study, but also by the number of cycles that are included in the analysis, which affects the denominator of the PI calculation. Cycles in which a subject is not sexually active, has incomplete diary information or uses a back-up method of contraception will not be counted toward the number of cycles included in the calculation of the PI. Indicators of subjects who are likely to exhibit the behaviors listed above were carefully assessed during the recruitment process so as to reduce the number of cycles discarded from the analysis. 

Assuming successful completion of the SECURE study in the fourth quarter of 2016, we plan to submit a complete response that includes the additional clinical trial results to the FDA in the first half of 2017. 

Twirla Line Extensions and Other Product Candidates 

In addition to Twirla, our product pipeline consists of two classes of product candidates: Twirla line extensions and other transdermal contraceptive product candidates. These product candidates are designed to address market needs and offer additional non-daily contraceptive options. Based on the results of our market research on line extension regimen concepts, we believe that our line extension product candidates are commercially viable and could garner a share of the contraceptive market. 

The hormonal contraceptive market has a long history of manufacturers successfully using line extensions to extend the lifecycle of a brand, often by gaining additional exclusivity periods for the product extension under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act or with additional patents. Our lifecycle strategy with Twirla is to introduce line extensions that will have exclusivity for some time period, either due to our intellectual property estate, or due to Hatch-Waxman exclusivity. The line extensions in our pipeline include using our Skinfusion technology to allow a 28-day regimen where women will experience shorter, lighter withdrawal bleeding, as well as extending the cycle beyond the typical 28-day regimen to allow women to experience fewer withdrawal bleeds each year. In addition, the line extension product candidates in our pipeline will utilize a unique aspect in the regimen, where a smaller patch, or SmP, that delivers a lower dose of both EE and LNG will be worn during the final seven days of each cycle, rather than having a patch-free week, to allow for withdrawal bleed while minimizing hormonal fluctuations and potentially the side effects that accompany changes in hormone levels. These regimens are protected by patents issued to us in 2015. A study to examine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the SmP will be required prior to advancing the line extension product candidates through clinical development. 

Our Twirla line extensions include the following: 

&#149; AG200-ER is an extended cycle regimen utilizing our current patch product and the SmP designed to allow a woman to extend the time between her episodes of withdrawal bleeding. There are several currently approved oral contraceptives that provide an 84 or 91-day extended cycle regimen. However, there is no approved contraceptive patch product offering an extended cycle regimen. AG200-ER is a contraceptive patch which is designed to address the limitations of the currently approved extended regimen oral contraceptives by providing a more convenient, weekly dosing schedule. By adjusting the length of the cycle, AG200-ER is designed to 23 

potentially minimize breakthrough bleeding and spotting, which is a commonly-reported concern with patients using an extended regimen contraceptive product. AG200-ER utilizes the same drug product as Twirla during the active phase of the cycle and will utilize the SmP during the final week of the cycle. AG200-ER requires additional patch development work on the SmP prior to potentially conducting a pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetic study. We are currently evaluating the optimal cycle length to advance into Phase 3 clinical development. 

&#149; AG200-SP is a 28-day regimen designed to provide users with shorter, lighter withdrawal bleeds and potentially improve contraceptive efficacy. AG200-SP may also provide benefit in patients with sensitivity to abrupt changes in hormone levels. Oral contraceptives that use a shortened hormone-free interval, or SHFI, by delivering hormones beyond 21 days currently comprise 42% of U.S. branded TRx volume, demonstrating high acceptability among patients and providers. AG200-SP is designed to provide a simplified 28-day regimen through use of the same drug product as Twirla for the first three weeks of the cycle, and the SmP in the fourth week, which will allow patients to continuously apply patches without interruption. AG200-SP requires additional patch development work on the SmP prior to potentially conducting a pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetic study. Our other product candidate is a P-only contraceptive patch described below: 

&#149; AG890 is an LNG-only contraceptive patch, intended for use by women who are unable or unwilling to take estrogen, including those who are breastfeeding or who are at greater risk of VTE, such as women who smoke, are over 35 years of age, or who are obese. Currently, the P-only market consists of pills and several non-oral options, including IUDs, implants and injections. AG890 is intended to fulfill an unmet medical need for a non-daily, easily reversible form of contraception in the P-only market. We have conducted a Phase 1 clinical trial with AG890. In addition, the National Institutes of Health, through a clinical trial agreement with us, conducted a Phase 1/2 trial with AG890. The Phase 1/2 study was a multicenter study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and mechanisms of potential contraceptive efficacy of AG890. The trial is complete and continue to evaluate the findings. Once we have completed our analysis of the data, it is possible that additional patch development work for dose selection may be required, including additional Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies to determine the optimal formulation and dose to advance to Phase 3. We do not expect to be required to conduct preclinical studies for any of these product candidates. Based upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our available capital resources and feedback from the FDA, we continue to review the clinical path and the budgetary requirements for each of these three product candidates. 

Sales and Marketing 

Twirla Commercialization Strategy 

We expect to build a sales and marketing infrastructure in the United States to support the launch of Twirla for contraception, if approved. We anticipate that a targeted sales force focused initially on ObGyns, NPs, PAs and primary care providers who comprise the top prescribers of contraceptives will be highly effective. Outside the United States, in the future we may decide to commercialize Twirla, if approved, by entering into third-party collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical partners. 

Twirla Promotion Strategy 

We have employed several key strategies during the development of Twirla to prepare us for the launch of Twirla. These include: 

&#149; Seeking advice and input from key opinion leaders, or KOLs, in women's health and contraception; &#149; Sponsoring continuing medical education, or CME, programs at key congresses and symposia around the country; &#149; Establishing relationships with women's health advocacy groups; &#149; Conducting extensive market research to better understand the market dynamics and identify product positioning and messages for Twirla with prescribers and consumers; &#149; Assuring that data from our clinical trials are presented in a timely manner at clinical congresses and published in appropriate peer-reviewed medical journals; and &#149; Developing and registering the trademark Twirla and developing key branding elements, including packaging design for submission with the NDA. Prescribing in the CHC category is primarily driven by ObGyns, who write 43% of the total prescriptions. In addition, NPs and PAs, who are often affiliated with an ObGyn practice but can also be in a primary care setting, write 27% of all CHC prescriptions. The ObGyns, NPs and PAs combine to write nearly 71% of total CHC prescriptions. In addition, 34% of all prescriptions written by ObGyns are for contraceptives. We plan to focus the promotion of Twirla on these key prescribers and other key customer groups, including consumers and commercial managed care plans. We believe that we can deploy a focused sales force effort targeting the approximately 22,000 prescribers responsible for 80% of branded CHC prescriptions. We believe that this universe of branded prescribers can be covered adequately by a specialty sales force of between 70 and 100 total representatives. In areas of the country where it is not efficient to deploy a sales representative, remote promotion can be used to reach these prescribers. 

We plan to deploy patient promotion at the launch of Twirla, both in the physician's office, and through targeted media campaigns. We plan to use both branded and unbranded campaigns to create awareness of Twirla among consumers. We believe there are cost-effective means to reach our target demographic of females aged 18 to 34 years, the so-called Millennials, who are more likely to seek health information online and through social networks. Traditional mass-market direct-to-consumer advertising on television may not be required to reach these consumers. Marketing tactics aimed at today's female consumer need to be optimized for mobile technology, because smartphones and text messaging are the preferred means of communication. Millennials also engage in online activities to a high degree. For example, approximately 80% use a social network and approximately 40% read blogs. We believe that a focused consumer promotion plan that uses digital media and other mass-market advertising vehicles will generate consumer awareness and demand for Twirla if approved. 

Managed care plans have traditionally used differential co-pays to attempt to drive patients to use either generic products or products for which they have a contract with the manufacturer. Many plans encourage patients to obtain their branded contraceptives through mail-order, incentivizing them with a 90-day co-pay that is often less on a per-month basis than that for a 30-day supply. Most manufacturers of contraceptive brands offer a coupon to patients covered by non-governmental payors to offset the difference in co-pay between a generic and Tier 2 or Tier 3 for their promoted brands. These co-pay coupons are a useful tactic to overcome barriers to initiating therapy in such patients. When used in conjunction with product samples given out by the physician, a co-pay coupon often allows the patient to then fill their first prescription for free or at a steep discount, and limits the out of pocket expenditure for the patient for several months. This co-pay assistance creates brand loyalty, particularly 

for a brand where there is no generic alternative. We believe that we will be able to use free product samples and co-pay coupons or vouchers at the time of Twirla's launch to gain use of the product by patients covered by non-governmental payors while we are negotiating contracts with select commercial health plans and awaiting formulary review. In addition, we believe the enactment of the ACA, and specifically the requirements for contraceptive coverage required by the ACA, provides a favorable managed care environment for Twirla. The ACA requires all insurers to provide at least one product in each of the 18 methods referenced in the FDA Birth Control Guide with no cost-sharing to the patient, including no co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. The FDA Birth Control Guide lists "Patch" as a unique method, therefore insurers must provide access to at least one contraceptive patch product with no cost-sharing to the patient. Currently, there is only one other patch product available on the market, Xulane (the generic version of Ortho Evra), and we believe the safety and tolerability profile of Twirla, if approved, will be superior to that of Xulane. Therefore, we believe Twirla will be well-positioned to be the no-cost patch option on formulary, either based on its clinical profile, or based upon negotiated rebates and discounts. In addition, we expect to be able to provide co-pay assistance in the form of a coupon for patients on plans where Twirla requires a co-pay. 

Market Research 

We have conducted market research with healthcare professionals, consumers and managed care decision-makers to determine market drivers, unmet needs and the reaction to the Twirla product profile. A total of nearly 650 healthcare professionals and over 3,000 consumers have participated in our market research on Twirla and the contraceptive market. The main findings of the market research are discussed below. 

Topline Summary of Our ObGyn/NP Market Research: 

&#149; Compliance is a substantial problem with oral contraceptives, and many women are not comfortable with the "invasiveness" of a vaginal ring, IUD or implant. &#149; The daily dose of estrogen delivered is the most important information requested by ObGyns and NPs in order for them to prescribe Twirla, if approved. &#149; Prescribers need assurance that what happened with Evra will not occur with Twirla, although they are generally unable to state the actual EE dose delivered by Evra. &#149; ObGyns are not familiar with the PI calculation, and generally assume all FDA-approved contraceptives are about equally effective. Two of our market research studies have included an allocation exercise to estimate the potential uptake of Twirla and peak market share. In both of these studies, ObGyns and NPs indicated their allocation of contraceptive prescriptions before and after reviewing a product profile like Twirla. In the first study, ObGyns estimated use of a product like Twirla in 17% of their CHC patients and in the second study, ObGyns and NPs estimated use of a product like Twirla in 18% of their contraceptive patients. A proprietary calibration model developed by Kantar Health was applied to the peak share estimate, to adjust for physician overstatement, resulting in an estimated peak market share of 9% of the CHC market. We believe a peak CHC market share of 9% can be achieved with Twirla within seven years of launch, allowing us time to establish a presence in the CHC market and to overcome any perceptions or barriers among prescribers due to the past history of Evra. 

Topline Summary of Our Consumer Market Research: 

&#149; The most important benefit to consumers is the ability for Twirla to "make their life easier" and "take birth control off their minds." 26 

&#149; All women are "busy" and most women admit to missing at least one or more birth control pills every month. &#149; There is little to no awareness of Evra among consumers, and no pre-existing safety hangover to overcome. &#149; The fact that Twirla may minimize the 'black ring' effect is important. &#149; Among women who are currently considering starting prescription contraception, nearly half would be interested in using Twirla, and over 90% of those interested said they would discuss Twirla with their doctor. Topline Summary of Our Managed Care Market Research: 

The managed care research summarized below was conducted prior to the implementation of the contraceptive mandate in the ACA, and prior to the clarification issued by HHS in May 2015, which requires coverage of at least one form in each method of birth control with no cost-sharing to the patient. We plan to conduct further market research with managed care payers as Twirla gets closer to approval and commercialization. 

&#149; Contraceptives are not among the top categories affecting health plan budgets. New contraceptives will likely be subject to 'hands off' management by payors. &#149; Prior to formulary review, most commercial plans will add Twirla, if approved, to their system and reimburse the product as a non-preferred agent. &#149; Contracting is a critical driver to gain preferred formulary placement. Competition 

The industry for contraceptive products is characterized by intense competition and strong promotion of proprietary products. While we believe that our Skinfusion technology provides us with a competitive advantage, we face potential competition from many different sources, including large pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, and medical device companies. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing products and new products that may become available in the future. 

We face competition from a variety of non-permanent birth control products. There are non-hormonal barrier methods, such as the contraceptive sponge, diaphragm, cervical cap or shield and condoms. Then, there are hormonal methods, which is the category for our product candidates, such as oral contraceptives, injections, implants, IUDs and vaginal ring and transdermal contraceptive products. 

The following table compares the effectiveness of birth control methods. We adapted the table from the World Health Organization, 2011 Family Planning Wall Chart. 

Although there are over 200 CHC products, including brands and generics, available on the market today, 55% of the total market sales, or $2.2 billion in 2015, consisted of sales of just eight branded products. Our potential competitors include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies, and specialty pharmaceutical sales and marketing companies. The product with the highest dollar sales in the CHC market for the 12 months ending December 2015 was Nuvaring&#174;, marketed by Merck, the only contraceptive vaginal ring available on the market, with over $720 million in sales for 2015. The Loestrin&#174; franchise, marketed by Allergan (formerly known as Actavis), consisting of two oral contraceptives, Minastrin&#174; 24 and LoLoestrin&#174;, totaled over $750 million in sales in 2015. Other competing products include: Gianvi&#174; and Quartette&#174;, marketed by Teva, Beyaz&#174; and Yaz&#174;, which totaled over $150 million in sales in 2015, and Mirena&#174;, marketed by Bayer. Although not a branded product, Xulane, the generic to Ortho Evra and the only patch currently available on the market, generated $165 million in sales in 2015 for Mylan. Additionally, several generics manufacturers currently market and continue to introduce new generic contraceptives, including Sandoz, Glenmark, Lupin, Amneal and Mylan. Ortho Tri-Cyclen&#174; Lo, also an oral contraceptive, had $503 million in sales in 2015, in spite of no promotion by Johnson &#38; Johnson. Based on the market experience of other non-oral CHC dosage forms, including Evra and Nuvaring, we believe there is a continuing demand for an innovative transdermal contraceptive patch that can provide convenience in a low-dose transdermal format. 

There are other contraceptive products in development that, if approved, will compete with Twirla and our other product candidates. Companies that have new contraceptive products in various stages of development include Bayer, with a contraceptive patch, an oral contraceptive and a P-only vaginal ring, 

each in Phase 3 development. Allergan has a vaginal ring in development, which is a generic equivalent to Nuvaring, a P-only patch for which they received a CRL from the FDA, and an oral contraceptive and an additional vaginal ring in Phase 2 development which is a 12-month vaginal ring that was developed by the Population Council for use in the developing world. In the past few years, some of the large pharmaceutical companies such as Johnson &#38; Johnson and Pfizer have dissolved their women's health specialty marketing and sales teams, and Bayer has shifted their focus away from their CHC products to their IUD franchise. 

We are aware of only one other CHC transdermal patch in development. This patch is being developed by Bayer, and contains the active ingredients EE and gestodene, a third generation progestin. Bayer has stated that their gestodene patch is small, round, and transparent, and delivers a daily EE dose comparable to a 20 microgram EE oral contraceptive. Phase 3 studies of the Bayer gestodene patch began in 2004, and they completed a Phase 3 efficacy trial in the United States in December 2010. Bayer also completed Phase 3 efficacy trials in the European Union, or E.U., and Latin America in September 2011, submitted a marketing application to the E.U. in September 2012, and received approval to market the gestodene patch in the E.U. in February 2014. At the time of the E.U. submission, Bayer reported that they were in talks with the FDA regarding a U.S. submission, but there has been no further public information regarding a U.S. submission or approval, and the most recent Bayer pipeline information does not list the gestodene patch. 

To date, there are no contraceptives containing gestodene available in the United States. We are aware that Wyeth was developing oral contraceptives containing gestodene in the late 1980s, with an NDA filed for an oral contraceptive containing gestodene and EE in 1988, and Wyeth planned filing an NDA for a second oral contraceptive containing gestodene in 1991. These products were never approved, and in a Wyeth pipeline report from 1996, there was no mention of any gestodene-containing product candidates among its contraceptives in development. Although not available in the United States, gestodene has been widely used outside the United States for a number of years. As with other third generation progestins, epidemiologic studies have reported a two-fold increase in risk of VTE with contraceptives containing gestodene compared to those containing LNG. We believe that if Bayer were to obtain FDA approval for the gestodene patch, the approved labeling may contain the same language that products containing third generation progestins have, which states that these contraceptives have a two-fold increase in risk of VTE as compared with contraceptives containing second generation progestins. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a third party for the manufacture of our product candidates for clinical trials, as well as for commercial manufacture if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval. In 2006, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Corium International, Inc., or Corium, to develop Twirla using our Skinfusion technology, and also for AG890, which is a P-only contraceptive patch in Phase 1/2 of clinical development. Our Corium agreement is an exclusive arrangement until Corium has commercially produced a significant, agreed-upon quantity of patches, currently projected to occur no earlier than five years following commercial launch of Twirla. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement, Corium is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain sufficient manufacturing capabilities to supply the quantities of Twirla required for its initial commercial launch and commercial sales thereafter. We believe that our current manufacturing capacity at Corium should be able to meet all of the current Phase 3 clinical trial (the SECURE study) needs. Corium needs to conduct the equipment and facility validation and expansion of its manufacturing capabilities in order to be capable of supplying projected commercial quantities of Twirla, if approved. We expect the validation and expansion to be completed in coordination with our planned commercialization activities. Corium is responsible for all aspects of Twirla manufacturing. 

Strategic Agreements 

Agreement with Corium 

Pursuant to our manufacturing agreement, Corium's exclusive right to manufacture Twirla and AG890 extends until Corium has commercially produced a significant, agreed-upon quantity of patches, currently projected to occur no earlier than five years following commercial launch of Twirla, at which point the agreement will expire. Under the terms of our agreement, we will pay Corium a defined price per finished patch, whether used for samples or commercial sale. We will owe no royalties to Corium in connection with the production of finished patches. The contract may be terminated by either party for the other party's uncured material breach. Following the end of the exclusivity period, if we were to seek a second source of supply, we would be required to obtain FDA approval through an NDA supplement for an additional manufacturing sites. The process of acquiring a second source of supply and obtaining FDA approval generally takes two years or more, and would require us to make substantial investments in new facilities and equipment. 

Under our agreement, Corium has performed process development and manufacturing of Twirla for each of our clinical trials. For the development work performed, we paid Corium for time and materials related to the achievement of certain development goals. To date, we have made approximately $1.7 million of milestone payments to Corium, all of which were paid between the years 2006 and 2009. Corium is not eligible for any milestone payments in the future. During 2012, we paid Corium an aggregate of $3.5 million towards leasehold improvements incurred by Corium to its facilities to provide for adequate manufacturing space for our product candidates. 

In order to accommodate our anticipated commercial launch of Twirla, if approved, Corium has completed a substantial build-out of its facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and it has installed over $10.0 million of equipment we purchased. This additional equipment and these facilities may require FDA pre-notification, pre-approval or inspection; however, we believe we can accomplish this expansion through an Annual Report filing to the Twirla NDA. 

Reimbursement 

Managed care plans have traditionally used differential co-pays to attempt to drive patients to use either generic products or products for which they have a contract with the manufacturer. Typically, a managed care plan's formulary is organized into between three and six tiers. Each tier is then associated with a set range of co-pay amounts, with products in the lower tiers having a lower co-pay. Many plans encourage patients to obtain their branded contraceptives through mail-order, incentivizing them with a 90-day co-pay that may be less on a per-month basis than that for a 30-day supply. Contraceptive brands are generally placed on Tier 2 only if there is a contract with the plan, although there are a few plans that place several branded products on Tier 2. 

Prior to May 2015, managed care plans have individually interpreted the requirement for coverage of contraceptives under the ACA. Some plans have designated that all contraceptives containing the same progestin are equivalent, and therefore only cover a select few products containing each progestin, usually the least expensive generics, with no co-pay. Other plans have defined contraceptive methods into categories such as "hormonal", "emergency contraception", and "barrier methods", and they cover just one product for each method with no co-pay. In May 2015, a clarification in the form of an FAQ was issued by the applicable government agencies (HHS, DOL, and Treasury) which clarified the requirements for coverage of contraceptives under the ACA. The FAQ states that plans and issuers must cover without cost-sharing at least one form of contraception in each of the 18 methods the FDA has identified for women in its current Birth Control Guide. The patch is identified as a specific method in the FDA Birth Control Guide, and therefore insurers must cover at least one patch product with no cost-sharing to the patient. Because this clarifying guidance will be applied for plan years (or in the individual market, policy years) beginning on or after 60 days from the date of publication of the 

FAQs, patients will not have the benefit of this clarification until their new plan year, which generally started in January 2016. Therefore, it is too early to determine the full effect of the ACA on our business. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

FDA Regulation 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA's refusal to approve pending NDAs, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold or termination, issuance of Warning, Untitled, or Cyber Letters, requests for product recalls, product seizures or detention, total or partial suspension or restriction of production, marketing or distribution, injunctions, fines, debarment, refusal to allow the import or export of product, adverse publicity, modification of promotional materials or labeling, refusals of government contracts, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, restitution, disgorgement, imprisonment, consent decrees and corporate integrity agreements, or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#149; Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, regulations; &#149; Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; Approval by an independent Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#149; Performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well- controlled clinical trials, in accordance with cGCPs to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#149; Submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#149; Satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#149; Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug's identity, strength, quality and purity, as well as the potential for completion of an FDA inspection of selected clinical sites to determine cGCP compliance; and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA. 31 

Preclinical Studies and IND Submission 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of drug substance chemistry, pharmacology, toxicity and drug product formulation, as well as animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests and preclinical literature, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND, unless the sponsor is relying on prior FDA findings of safety or efficacy of the drug product, in which case, some of the above information may be omitted. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trials involve the administration of an investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with cGCP requirements, which includes the requirements that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial, and the review and approval of the study by an IRB. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the trial procedures, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated and a statistical analysis plan. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB for each clinical trial site participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences, and the IRB must continue to oversee the clinical trial while it is being conducted, including any changes. Information about certain clinical trials, including a description of the study and study results, must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In Phase 1, the drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or subjects with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an initial indication of its effectiveness. In Phase 2, the drug typically is administered through controlled studies to a limited subject population with the target disease or condition to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. In Phase 3, the drug is administered to an expanded subject population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in two adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product candidate for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product candidate and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product candidate. In the case of a 505(b)(2) NDA, which is a marketing application in which sponsors may rely on investigations that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted, some of the above-described studies and preclinical studies may not be required or may be abbreviated. Bridging studies may be needed, however, to demonstrate the applicability of the studies that were previously conducted by other sponsors to the drug that is the subject of the marketing application. 

The manufacture of investigational drugs for the conduct of human clinical trials is subject to cGMP requirements. Investigational drugs and active pharmaceutical ingredients imported into the United States are also subject to regulation by the FDA relating to their labeling and distribution. 

Further, the export of investigational drug products outside of the United States is subject to regulatory requirements of the receiving country as well as U.S. export requirements under the FDCA. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and the IRB and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Information about certain clinical trials, including a description of the study and study results, must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. Marketing application applicants must also report certain investigator financial interests to FDA. 

Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group regularly reviews accumulated data and advises the study sponsor regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects, potential trial subjects, and the continuing validity and scientific merit of the clinical trial. We may also suspend or terminate a clinical trial based on evolving business objectives or competitive climate. 

U.S. Marketing Approval 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product's chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. These user fees must be filed at the time of the first submission of the application, even if the application is being submitted on a rolling basis. A user fee for the Twirla contraceptive patch was submitted with the original NDA. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has agreed to certain performance goals regarding the timing of its review of an application. The FDA's standard review goal is to act on 90% of all Non-New Molecular Entity applications within ten months of FDA receipt of the application. This time period may be extended by FDA should an applicant submit new information to the agency during the course of FDA's review of the marketing application. The time period is also only a goal and may not be met by FDA. We expect that our products, if and when approved, will be subject to a standard review goal. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, an NDA or supplement to an NDA for a new active ingredient, indication, dosage form, dosage regimen or route of administration must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. We believe that we may be able to obtain a waiver from the conduct of a PREA study as, historically, waivers have been granted for other contraceptive applicants. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. 

In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held, as well as the manufacturing processes and controls, meet standards designed to ensure the product's continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA may refer a marketing application to an external advisory committee for questions pertaining to issues such as clinical trial design, safety and efficacy, and public health questions. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it typically follows such recommendations and considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured, referred to as a Pre-Approval Inspection. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications by the manufacturer and all of its subcontractors and contract manufacturers. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with cGCP. Also, as part of its regulatory review, the FDA verifies the data contained in the NDA. 

The testing and approval process for an NDA requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and may take several years to complete. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval of an NDA on a timely basis, or at all. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a CRL. A CRL indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application is not ready for approval. A CRL generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing, or other information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. We received a CRL for Twirla. We expect the FDA's CRL review timeline for Twirla to be approximately six months after submission of our response to the existing CRL. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA's satisfaction, the FDA may issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. 

Even if the FDA approves a product candidate, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product candidate and require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, including a black box warning. The FDA also may not approve the inclusion of labeling claims necessary for successful marketing. Moreover, the FDA may require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug's safety and efficacy after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms. For example, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, as a condition of approval or following approval to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks and ensure safe use of the drug. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization tools. A REMS could materially affect the potential market and 

profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements, FDA notification, and FDA review and approval. Further, should new safety information arise, additional testing, product labeling or FDA notification may be required. 

Hatch-Waxman Act 

Section 505 of the FDCA describes three types of marketing applications that may be submitted to the FDA to request marketing authorization for a new drug. A Section 505(b)(1) NDA is an application that contains full reports of investigations of safety and efficacy. A 505(b)(2) NDA is an application that contains full reports of investigations of safety and efficacy but where at least some of the information required for approval comes from investigations that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted. This regulatory pathway enables the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA's prior findings of safety and efficacy for an existing product, or published literature, in support of its application. Section 505(j) establishes an abbreviated approval process for a generic version of approved drug products through the submission of an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a generic drug product that has the same active ingredients, dosage form, strength, route of administration, labeling, performance characteristics and intended use, among other things, to a previously approved product. ANDAs are termed "abbreviated" because they are generally not required to include preclinical (animal) and clinical (human) data to establish safety and efficacy. Instead, generic applicants must scientifically demonstrate that their product is bioequivalent to, or performs in the same manner as, the innovator drug through in vitro , in vivo , or other testing. The generic version must deliver the same amount of active ingredients into a subject's bloodstream in the same amount of time as the innovator drug and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the reference listed drug. In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant's drug or a method of using the drug. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA. 

Upon submission of an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA, an applicant must certify to the FDA that (1) no patent information on the drug product that is the subject of the application has been submitted to the FDA; (2) such patent has expired; (3) the date on which such patent expires; or (4) such patent is invalid or will not be infringed upon by the manufacture, use or sale of the drug product for which the application is submitted. Generally, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA cannot be approved until all listed patents have expired, except where the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant challenges a listed patent through the last type of certification, also known as a paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicates that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA application will not be approved until all of the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the paragraph IV certification. If the paragraph IV certification is challenged by an NDA holder or the patent owner(s) asserts a patent challenge to the paragraph IV certification, the FDA may not make an approval effective until the 

earlier of 30 months from the receipt of the notice of the paragraph IV certification, the expiration of the patent, when the infringement case concerning each such patent was favorably decided in the applicant's favor or settled, or such shorter or longer period as may be ordered by a court. This prohibition is generally referred to as the 30-month stay. In instances where an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant files a paragraph IV certification, the NDA holder or patent owner(s) regularly take action to trigger the 30-month stay, recognizing that the related patent litigation may take many months or years to resolve. Thus, approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA could be delayed for a significant period of time depending on the patent certification the applicant makes and the reference drug sponsor's decision to initiate patent litigation. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act establishes periods of regulatory exclusivity for certain approved drug products, during which the FDA cannot approve (or in some cases accept) an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application that relies on the branded reference drug. For example, the holder of an NDA, including a 505(b)(2) NDA, may obtain five years of exclusivity upon approval of a new drug containing new chemical entities, or NCEs, that have not been previously approved by the FDA. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the therapeutic activity of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company that contains the previously approved active moiety. However, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity to the holder of an NDA (including a 505(b)(2) NDA) for a particular condition of approval, or change to a marketed product, such as a new formulation for a previously approved product, if one or more new clinical studies (other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies) was essential to the approval of the application and was conducted/sponsored by the applicant. This three-year exclusivity period protects against FDA approval of ANDAs and 505(b)(2) NDAs for the condition of the new drug's approval. As a general matter, the three year exclusivity does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs for generic versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and efficacy. 

Our NDA for Twirla was submitted under Section 505(b)(2), and we expect that some of our other drug candidates will utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. Even though several of our drug products utilize active drug ingredients that are commercially marketed in the United States in other dosage forms, we need to establish safety and efficacy of those active ingredients in the formulation and dosage forms that we are developing. All approved products, both innovator and generic, are listed in the FDA's Orange Book. 

U.S. Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to manufacturing recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion, reporting of adverse experiences with the product and drug shortages, and compliance with any post-approval requirements imposed as a condition of approval, such as Phase 4 clinical trials, REMS and surveillance to assess safety and efficacy after commercialization. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any approved products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data other than bioavailability or 

bioequivalence studies. In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, list drugs manufactured at their facilities with the FDA, and are subject to periodic announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented, or FDA notification. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#149; Restrictions on the marketing, distribution or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or requests for product recalls; &#149; Fines, or Untitled, Cyber or Warning Letters or holds on or termination of post-approval clinical trials; &#149; Refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#149; Product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; &#149; Injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties including disgorgement, restitution, fines and imprisonment; &#149; Consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements or exclusion from federal healthcare programs; &#149; Debarment; &#149; Mandated modification of promotional materials and labeling and the issuance of corrective information; or &#149; The FDA or other regulatory authorities may issue safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases or other communications containing warnings or other safety information about the product. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies are prohibited from marketing or promoting their drug products for uses outside the approved label, a practice known as off-label promotion. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including criminal and civil penalties under the FDCA and False Claims Act, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, mandatory compliance programs under corporate integrity agreements, debarment and refusal of government contracts. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products, including samples, is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. 

Moreover, the Drug Quality and Security Act imposes obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products related to product tracking and tracing. Among the requirements of this legislation, manufacturers are required to provide certain information regarding the drug product to individuals and entities to which product ownership is transferred, will be required to label drug product with a product identifier and are required to keep certain records regarding the drug product. The transfer of information to subsequent product owners by manufacturers will eventually be required to be done electronically. Manufacturers must also verify that purchasers of the manufacturers' products are appropriately licensed. Further, under this legislation, manufactures have drug product investigation, quarantine, disposition, and FDA and trading partner notification responsibilities related to counterfeit, diverted, stolen and intentionally adulterated products, as well as products that are the subject of fraudulent transactions or which are otherwise unfit for distribution such that they would be reasonably likely to result in serious health consequences or death. 

U.S. Fraud and Abuse, Data Privacy and Security and Transparency Laws and Regulations 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, federal and state fraud and abuse laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. These laws include, among other things, anti-kickback, physician payment transparency and false claims laws and regulations as well as data privacy and security laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term "remuneration" has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value. Additionally, the intent standard under the Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes was also amended by the ACA to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the ACA provided that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. 

The federal civil False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes "any request or demand" for money or property presented to the U.S. government. The civil False Claims Act has been used to assert liability on the basis of kickbacks and other improper referrals, 

improperly reported government pricing metrics such as Best Price or Average Manufacturer Price, improper promotion of off-label uses not expressly approved by the FDA in a drug's label, and allegations as to misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered. Additionally, the civil monetary penalties statute, which, among other things, imposes fines against any person who is determined to have presented, or caused to be presented, claims to a federal healthcare program that the person knows, or should know, is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, also created federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, that apply regardless of the payor. 

In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, including the final omnibus rule published on January 25, 2013, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes security standards and certain privacy standards directly applicable to business associates. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys' fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws may govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Additionally, federal physician payment transparency laws, including the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act created under Section 6002 of the ACA and its implementing regulations, require that manufacturers of drugs for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program, with certain exceptions, report annually to the government information related to payments or other "transfers of value" made or distributed to physicians, which is defined to include doctors of medicine, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors, generally, with some exceptions, and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, physicians and teaching hospitals. Additionally, applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations are required to report annually to the government certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. , Manufacturers must submit reports by the 90th day of each calendar year. Disclosure of such information is made on a publicly available website. 

There are also an increasing number of analogous state laws that require manufacturers to file reports with states on pricing and marketing information, and to track and report gifts, compensation, other remuneration and items of value provided to healthcare professionals and healthcare entities. Many of these laws contain ambiguities as to what is required in order to comply with such laws. For example, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to, among other things, establish and implement commercial compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, or register their sales representatives. Certain state laws also regulate manufacturers' use of 

prescriber-identifiable data. These laws may affect our future sales, marketing and other promotional activities by imposing administrative and compliance burdens. In addition, given the lack of clarity with respect to these laws and their implementation, our reporting actions once we commercialize could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state and federal authorities. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws or regulations described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to a variety of penalties, depending upon the law found to have been violated, potentially including criminal and significant civil monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, corporate integrity agreements, refusal of government contracts, contract debarment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

Coverage and Reimbursement Generally 

The commercial success of our product candidates and our ability to commercialize any approved product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental payor programs at the federal and state levels, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payors provide coverage for and establish adequate coverage of and reimbursement levels for our product candidates. Government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels for healthcare. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third-party payors often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government provides reimbursement through the Medicare or Medicaid programs for such products and services. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which often has resulted in average selling prices lower than they would otherwise be. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and utilization, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. Patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Sales of our product candidates will therefore depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance organizations, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payors. 

Third-party payors are increasingly imposing additional requirements and restrictions on coverage and limiting reimbursement levels for medical products, including pharmaceuticals. For example, federal and state governments reimburse covered prescription drugs at varying rates generally below average wholesale price. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Third-party payors are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, 

or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drug products for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. Moreover, a payor's decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in drug development for a product candidate. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product candidates. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain and maintain third-party coverage or adequate reimbursement for our product candidates in whole or in part. 

Healthcare Reform 

Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government healthcare programs may result in lower reimbursement for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our ability to profitably sell our product candidates, if approved. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. 

In March 2010, the ACA was enacted, which included provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extended the initiatives of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which provided $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of healthcare treatments. This funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. The ACA also appropriated additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. Although Congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of healthcare, it remains unclear how the research will impact current Medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. 

It is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor's product could adversely affect the sales of our product candidates. If third-party payors do not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our product candidates, once approved, as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a profitable basis. 

In addition, in August 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will stay in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In November 2015, the Bipartisan Budget Act was enacted into law, which, among 

other things, extended sequestration through 2025. These and other healthcare reform initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could further limit the prices we are able to charge, or the amounts of reimbursement available, for our product candidates if they are approved. 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. Activities that violate the FCPA, even if they occur wholly outside the United States, can result in criminal and civil fines, imprisonment, disgorgement, oversight and debarment from government contracts. 

Foreign Regulation 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. For example, in the European Union, we must obtain authorization of a clinical trial application, or CTA, in each member state in which we intend to conduct a clinical trial. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Research and Development 

Conducting research and development is central to our business model. We have invested and expect to continue to invest significant time and capital in our research and development operations. Our research and development expenses were $25.6 million, $13.4 million, and $9.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 respectively. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial for Twirla and subsequently advance the development of our other product candidates. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patent protection intended to cover our Skinfusion technology, its methods of use, related technologies and other inventions that are important to our business. As more fully described below, our patents and patent applications are directed to our Skinfusion technology or aspects thereof including certain transdermal delivery systems having an active adhesive matrix and 

methods of using such transdermal delivery systems for controlling fertility. We also rely on manufacturing trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain new patents and maintain existing patents and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. 

A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights, which are important or necessary to the development of our product candidates. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our product candidates, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. If we were not able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. 

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property estate by filing patent applications directed to novel and nonobvious transdermal contraceptive products. The active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, in our product candidates are generic and therefore our patents do not include claims directed solely to the API. We anticipate seeking additional patent protection in the United States and internationally for additional transdermal delivery systems and their methods of use. 

The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and the patent's scope can be modified after issuance. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our product candidates will remain protected by enforceable and valid patents. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. 

Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions generally are maintained in secrecy for 18 months, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of our entitlement to patent rights in the inventions covered in our issued patents and pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, USPTO, to determine priority of invention, or in post-grant challenge proceedings in the USPTO or foreign patent offices such as oppositions, reexamination, inter-partes review, post grant review, or a derivation proceeding, that challenge our entitlement to an invention or the patentability of one or more claims in our patent applications or issued patents. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. 

More specifically, Twirla is a transdermal contraceptive hormone delivery system. The system is a patch for application to the skin and contains two API, the hormones levonorgestrel, or LNG, which is a synthetic progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, a synthetic estrogen. The API are formulated with a combination of skin penetration enhancers, which promote penetration through the dermis and into the bloodstream, such that effective blood levels of the active agents are achieved to suppress ovulation and thereby prevent pregnancy. One of our other product candidates, AG890, is similar to Twirla, except that it contains only a single API, LNG. 

In both our Twirla product candidate line and in AG890, the active adhesive system consists of the active ingredients in a polyacrylate adhesive polymer matrix comprising the permeation enhancers dimethylsulfoxide, ethyl lactate, capric acid and lauryl lactate. The active blend is coated onto a release 

liner, and a backing layer is added on top of the active blend. The peripheral adhesive system, also called the overlay, comprising three layers is added onto the backing layer. The overlay comprises a polyisobutylene adhesive layer, an acrylic adhesive layer, and an overlay covering. The overlay covering is a commercially available silk-like polyester fabric. The adhesive components of the overlay, in addition to their adhesive function, create an in situ seal with the disposable release liner, trapping evaporable solvents in the active blend, thereby extending the usable shelf life of the product candidate and contributing to the comfort and effectiveness of the transdermal system during use. Prior to use of any of our product candidates, the release liner is removed by the user and discarded. The patch is then applied to the skin. 

Eight U.S. patents, issuing from three patent families, have been submitted to the FDA for listing in the Orange Book upon approval of Twirla. These patents include claims directed to transdermal delivery systems having an active adhesive matrix and claims directed to methods of controlling fertility by applying such transdermal delivery systems, and in all cases including a skin permeation enhancer. One of our eight issued U.S. patents will expire November 22, 2020. Four will expire March 14, 2021. Two will expire July 10, 2028. The eighth will expire August 26, 2028. 

U.S. Patent No. 7,045,145 is directed to the adhesive matrix of the transdermal delivery system used in Twirla and expires in March 2021; product-by-process claims cover patches manufactured by drying wet formulations of the active adhesive matrix. U.S. Patent No. 7,384,650, U.S. Patent No. 8,221,784, and U.S. Patent No. 8,221,785 are all directed to the dry final product formulation of the transdermal delivery system used in Twirla, and expires in March 2021. U.S. Patent No. 8,221,784 covers both Twirla and AG890. Foreign counterparts to these patents have been granted in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, South Africa and Taiwan and are pending in other countries. U.S. Patent No. 8,883,196 is directed to a method of controlling fertility by applying Twirla or AG890 once each week for three weeks followed by a one week rest interval, or in an extended regimen without a rest interval for a selected number of weeks, and expires November 22, 2020. 

U.S. Patent Nos. 8,246,978, 8,747,888, and 9,050,348 are directed to structural features of the transdermal delivery system used in Twirla and AG890 patch design for transdermal delivery of hormones or of other drugs. As such, these patents protect a platform technology for delivery of LNG, EE, other hormones, and other drugs. These patents expire in July and August 2028. Foreign counterparts are granted in Australia, Japan, Russia and New Zealand and are pending elsewhere. 

U.S. Patent Nos. 9,198,876, 9,192,614, 9,198,919 and 9,198,920 are directed to various novel dosing regimens, each of which employs transdermal delivery of contraceptive doses of ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel during a "treatment interval" and transdermal delivery of low dose ethinyl estradiol and low dose levonorgestrel during a "withdrawal interval". We expect these patents will be relevant to two of the products in our pipeline, AG200-SP and AG200-ER, as well as other new potential regimens. 

In addition, we own 43 granted patents in jurisdictions other than the United States, including patents in New Zealand, Australia, Canada, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Indonesia, Israel, India, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Norway, the Philippines, Taiwan and South Africa. These issued foreign patents include claims directed to transdermal delivery systems having an active adhesive matrix and claims directed to methods of controlling fertility by applying such transdermal delivery systems, and in all cases including a skin permeation enhancer. In addition, we have 36 pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions for Twirla and AG890, and for unique patch dosage regimens intended to align with future label expansions and line extensions, such as AG200-ER and AG200-SP, including an anti-oxidant formulation and a desogestrel patch. 

Regulatory Exclusivity 

Our NDA for Twirla was submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Even though Twirla utilizes API that were previously approved in the United States, Twirla utilizes LNG in a new dosage form, specifically a transdermal patch, and we provided new clinical data essential to approval in our NDA to establish the safety and efficacy of Twirla. Therefore, if approved by the FDA, we expect to receive three years of U.S. marketing exclusivity for Twirla. The exclusivity will prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs and 505(b)(2) NDAs for the conditions of the Twirla approval. We will consider whether we are going to pursue patent term restoration, however, we do not expect to receive patent term restoration because, as explained above, Twirla will not be the first approval of the API. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 16 full time employees, including nine in research and development and seven in general and administrative roles. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced a work stoppage and consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in December 1997. Our offices are located at 101 Poor Farm Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, and our telephone number is (609) 683-1880. 

Available Information 

Our corporate website address is www.agiletherapeutics.com. Information contained on or accessible through our website are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K, and the inclusion of our website address in this annual report is an inactive textual reference only. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. 

We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the prior March 31 st , and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. 

