 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

In this annual report on Form 10-K, &#8220;Applied&#8221; refers to Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., an Ohio corporation. References to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; and &#8220;the Company&#8221; refer to Applied and its subsidiaries. 

We are a leading industrial distributor in North America, Australia, and New Zealand, serving MRO (maintenance, repair, and operations) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) customers in virtually every industry. In addition, the Company provides engineering, design, and systems integration for industrial and fluid power applications, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and fluid power shop services. 

We add value for our customers by providing product-related technical application support and solutions to help customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs. 

Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in this business since 1923. Applied reincorporated in Ohio in 1988. 

Our Internet address is www.applied.com . The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from the investor relations area of our website: 

&#8226; 

Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider beneficial stock ownership reports - these documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission 

&#8226; 

Applied's Code of Business Ethics 

&#8226; 

Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices 

&#8226; 

Applied's Director Independence Standards 

&#8226; 

Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization &#38; Compensation Committees of Applied's Board of Directors 

The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. 

(a) General Development of Business. 

Information regarding developments in our business can be found in Item 7 under the caption &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; This information is incorporated here by reference. 

(b) Financial Information about Segments. 

We have identified two reportable segments, service center-based distribution and fluid power businesses. 

The service center-based distribution segment provides customers with a wide range of industrial products primarily through a network of service centers. The fluid power businesses segment consists of specialized regional companies that distribute fluid power components, design and assemble fluid power &#32; systems and perform equipment &#32; repair. The fluid power businesses primarily sell products and services directly to customers rather than through the service centers. 

Segment financial information can be found in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 under the caption &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; That information is incorporated here by reference. 

(c) Narrative Description of Business. 

Overview. &#32;&#32;Our field operating structure is built on two platforms - service center-based distribution and fluid power businesses: 

&#159; 

Service Center-Based Distribution. &#32;&#32;We distribute a wide range of industrial products through service centers across North America, Australia, and New Zealand. Customers primarily purchase our products for scheduled maintenance of their machinery and equipment and for emergency repairs. 

The service center-based distribution business accounts for a substantial majority of our field operations and 82.8% &#32;of our 2016 sales dollars. 

The service center-based distribution segment includes operations specialized in serving customers in the upstream oil and gas industry; the Applied Maintenance Supplies &#38; Solutions service offering; regional fabricated rubber shops, which modify and repair conveyor belts and make hose assemblies in accordance with customer requirements; and rubber service field crews, which install and repair conveyor belts and rubber linings at customer locations. 

&#159; 

Fluid Power Businesses . &#32;&#32;Our specialized fluid power businesses primarily market products and services to customers within the businesses' geographic regions. In the United States, the businesses also market products and services through our service center network. In addition to distributing fluid power components, the businesses design and assemble hydraulic and electro-hydraulic power units and control systems, pneumatic and electro-pneumatic panels and sub-assemblies, fabricated aluminum assemblies, lubrication systems, hydraulic manifolds, and custom-machined metal parts. They also perform equipment repair and offer technical advice to customers. Customers include firms purchasing for maintenance, repair, and operational needs, as well as for original equipment manufacturing applications. 

Products . &#32;&#32; We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission components, fluid power components and systems, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies. Fluid power products include hydraulic, electro-hydraulic, pneumatic, electro-pneumatic, lubrication, and filtration components and systems. 

These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor. The suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support. Authorizations to represent particular suppliers and product lines may vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power businesses. We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades. The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our business. 

Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large original equipment manufacturers. The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor. 

Net sales by product category for the most recent three fiscal years is detailed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 under the caption &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; That information is incorporated here by reference. 

Services . &#32; &#32; Our employees advise and assist customers in selecting and applying products, and in managing inventory. We consider this advice and assistance to be an integral part of our product sales efforts. Beyond logistical distribution services, we offer product and process solutions involving multiple technologies. These solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs. By providing high levels of service, product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships. 

Our service center sales employees include customer sales and service representatives and account managers, as well as product and industry specialists. Customer sales and service representatives receive, process, and expedite customer orders, provide product information, and assist account managers in serving customers. Account managers make on-site calls to customers to provide product information, identify customer requirements, make recommendations, and assist in implementing equipment maintenance and storeroom management programs, as well as automated supplies dispensing systems. Account managers also measure and document the value of the cost savings and increased productivity we help generate. Product and industry specialists assist with applications in their areas of expertise. 

We maintain product inventory levels at each service center tailored to the local market. These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items specific to local customer demand. Distribution centers replenish service center inventories and also may ship products directly to customers. Having product in stock helps us satisfy customers' immediate needs. 

Timely delivery of products is an integral part of our service, particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs. Service centers and distribution centers use the most effective method of transportation available to meet customer needs. These methods include our own delivery vehicles, dedicated third-party transportation providers, as well as surface and air common carrier and courier services. Customers can also pick up items at our service centers. 

Our information systems enhance our customer service. Customers can turn to our website at www.applied.com &#32;to search for products in a comprehensive electronic catalog, research product attributes, view prices, check inventory levels, place orders, and track order status. We also use electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems. 

In addition to our electronic capabilities, we provide customers our paper catalog, a comprehensive purchasing tool and resource guide for industrial and maintenance products (also available in a mobile-friendly digital version). 

The Applied Maintenance Supplies &#38; Solutions service offering provides traditional vendor managed inventory (VMI) services, at customer sites, for industrial and maintenance supplies, including fasteners, cutting tools, paints and chemicals, fluid flow, safety, and janitorial products. 

In addition to distributing products, we offer shop services in select geographic areas. Our fabricated rubber shops modify and repair conveyor belts and provide hose assemblies (also available at select service centers and distribution centers) in accordance with customer requirements. Field crews install and repair conveyor belts and rubber lining, primarily at customer locations. Among the other services we offer, either performed by us directly or by third party providers, are the rebuilding or assembly of speed reducers, pumps, valves, cylinders, and electric and hydraulic motors, and custom machining. 

Our specialized fluid power businesses generally operate independently of the service centers, but as product distributors, share the same focus on customer service. Product and application recommendations, inventory availability, and delivery speed are all important to the businesses' success. 

The fluid power businesses distinguish themselves from most component distributors by offering engineering, design, system fabrication, installation, and repair services for fluid power systems. Our capabilities extend to the following specialties: fluid power system integration; manifold design, machining, and assembly; and the integration of hydraulic and pneumatic equipment with electronics for complete machine design. 

Each business has account managers with technical knowledge, who handle sophisticated projects, including original equipment manufacturing applications. The businesses also provide technical support to our service centers and their customers. 

Markets . &#32;&#32; We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, automotive, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities. Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones. We are not significantly dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 3% of our net sales. 

Competition . &#32;&#32; We consider our business to be highly competitive. In addition, our markets present few economic or technological barriers to entry, contributing to a high fragmentation of market share. Longstanding supplier and customer relationships, geographic coverage, name recognition, and our employees' knowledge and experience do, however, support our competitive position. Competition is based generally on breadth and quality of product and service offerings, product availability, price, ease of product selection and ordering, e-commerce capabilities, catalogs, and having a local presence. In the fluid power businesses, product manufacturer authorizations are often more selective and can be a more significant competitive factor, along with market reputation and product application knowledge. 

Our principal competitors are other bearing, power transmission, industrial rubber, fluid power, linear motion, tools, and safety product distributors, as well as specialized oilfield supply distributors and distributors of other industrial and maintenance supplies and catalog companies. These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations. We also compete with original equipment manufacturers and their distributors in the sale 

of maintenance and replacement components. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we do. The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve. 

Although we are one of the leading distributors in North America, Australia, and New Zealand for the primary categories of products we provide in those areas, our market share for those products in a given geographic market may be relatively small compared to the portion of the market served by original equipment manufacturers and other distributors . 

Backlog Orders and Seasonality. &#32;&#32; Because of the type of industrial distribution we provide, backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid power businesses. Our business has exhibited minor seasonality - in particular, sales per day during the first half of our fiscal year have tended in the past to be slightly lower compared with the second half due, in part, to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays. 

Patents, Trademarks, Trade Names, and Licenses. &#32;&#32; Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies &#174; , Applied &#174; , and AIT &#174; , is an important contributing factor to our sales. Patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business. 

Raw Materials and General Business Conditions. &#32; Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions. We would be adversely affected by the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers, or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on key customer industries. 

Number of Employees. &#32;&#32; At June 30, 2016, we had 5,569 &#32;employees. 

Working Capital. &#32;&#32; Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; This information is incorporated here by reference. 

We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories. Significant amounts of inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements. We generally require payments for sales on account within 30 days. Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements. We believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry. 

Environmental Laws. &#32;&#32; We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. 

(d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas. 

Information regarding our foreign operations, including information about revenues and long-lived assets, is included in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 under the caption &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; as well as in Item 7A under the caption &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.&#8221; That information is incorporated here by reference. 

