 Item 1. Business 

The Company 

Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. Aimco is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT. AIMCO Properties, L.P., or the Aimco Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership formed on May 16, 1994, to conduct our business, which is focused on the ownership, management, redevelopment and limited development of quality apartment communities located in the largest coastal and job growth markets of the United States. 

Aimco, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and AIMCO-LP Trust, owns a majority of the ownership interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership. Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other than Aimco are referred to as &#8220;OP Units.&#8221; OP Units include common partnership units, high performance partnership units and partnership preferred units, which we refer to as common OP Units, HPUs and preferred OP Units, respectively. We also refer to HPUs as common partnership unit equivalents. At December 31, 2015 , after eliminations for units held by consolidated entities, the Aimco Operating Partnership had 164,179,533 &#32;common partnership units and equivalents outstanding. At December 31, 2015 , Aimco owned 156,326,416 &#32;of the common partnership units ( 95.2% &#32;of the outstanding common partnership units and equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership) and Aimco had outstanding an equal number of shares of its Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as Common Stock. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our real estate portfolio consisted of 196 &#32;apartment communities with 49,149 &#32;apartment homes. 

Business Overview 

Our business activities are defined by a commitment to our core values of integrity, respect, collaboration, performance and a focus on our customers. These values and our corporate mission, &#8220;to consistently provide quality apartment homes in a respectful environment delivered by a team of people who care,&#8221; shape our culture. In all of our interactions with residents, team members, business partners, lenders and equity holders, we aim to be the best owner and operator of apartment communities and an outstanding corporate citizen. 

Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and attractive returns to our equity holders, as measured by growth in Economic Income and Adjusted Funds From Operations (each defined under the Non-GAAP Performance and Liquidity Measures heading in Item 7). Our business plan to achieve this objective is to: 

&#8226; 

operate our portfolio of desirable apartment homes with valued amenities, with a high level of focus on customer selection and customer satisfaction, and in an efficient manner that realizes the benefits of our corporate systems and local management expertise; 

&#8226; 

improve our geographically diversified portfolio of apartment communities, which average &#8220;B/B+&#8221; in quality (defined under the Portfolio Management heading below) by selling lower rated apartment communities and investing the proceeds from such sales through property upgrades, redevelopment, development and acquisition of higher-quality apartment communities; 

&#8226; 

provide financial leverage primarily by the use of non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate property debt and perpetual preferred equity, a combination which reduces our refunding and re-pricing risk and which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates; and 

&#8226; 

emphasize a collaborative, respectful, and performance-oriented culture while maintaining high morale and team engagement. 

Our long-standing business is organized around our strategic areas of focus: excellence in property operations; adding value through redevelopment and limited development; upgrading our portfolio through disciplined portfolio management; maintaining a safe and liquid balance sheet; and fostering a performance culture. Our strategic areas of focus are described in more detail below. Recent accomplishments in the execution of such strategies are discussed in the Executive Overview in Item 7. 

Property Operations 

We own and operate a diversified portfolio of conventional apartment communities. We also operate a portfolio of affordable apartment communities, which consists of apartments with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part, by a government agency. As the tax credit delivery or compliance periods for our affordable apartment communities expire, between 2016 and 2023, we expect to sell these apartment communities and reinvest the proceeds in our conventional portfolio. Our conventional and affordable portfolios comprise our reportable segments. 

Our property operations are organized into two geographic areas, the East and West. To manage our portfolio more efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local management expertise, we give direct responsibility for operations within each area to area operations leaders with regular senior management reviews. To enable the area operations leaders to focus on sales and service, as well as to improve financial control and budgeting, we have dedicated area financial officers who support the operations leaders. Additionally, with the exception of routine maintenance and purchases and installation of equipment and other capital assets, we have specialized teams that manage capital spending related to larger capital and construction projects, thus reducing the need for the area operations leaders to spend time on oversight of such projects. 

We seek to improve our property operations by: employing service-oriented, well-trained employees; upgrading systems; standardizing business processes, operational measurements and internal reporting; and enhancing financial controls over field operations. We focus on the following areas: 

&#8226; 

Customer Satisfaction. Our operating culture is focused on our residents and we regularly monitor and evaluate our performance through a customer satisfaction tracking system. Our goal is to provide our residents with a high level of service in clean, safe and attractive communities. We have automated certain aspects of our on-site operations to enable our current and future residents to interact with us using methods that are efficient and effective for them, such as making on-line requests for service work, taking self-guided apartment community tours and executing leases and lease renewals on-line. In addition, we emphasize the quality of our on-site employees through recruiting, training and retention programs, which we believe contributes to improved customer service and leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced operational performance. 

&#8226; 

Resident Selection and Retention. In apartment communities, neighbors are a meaningful part of the value provided, together with the location of the community and the physical quality of the apartment homes. Part of our property operations strategy is to focus on attracting and retaining credit-worthy residents who are also good neighbors. We have structured goals and coaching for all of our sales personnel, a tracking system for inquiries and a standardized renewal communication program. We have standardized residential financial stability requirements and have policies and monitoring practices to maintain our resident quality. 

&#8226; 

Revenue Management and Ancillary Services. For our conventional apartment communities, we have a centralized revenue management system that leverages people, processes and technology to work in partnership with our area operational management teams to develop rental rate pricing. We seek to increase revenue, net operating income and free cash flow by optimizing the balance between rental and occupancy rates, as well as taking into consideration the cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident. We are also focused on careful measurements of on-site operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of apartment community performance and resident profile data will enable us to maximize revenue through better property management and leasing decisions. We maximize rental revenue with timely data and analysis of new and renewal pricing for each apartment home, thereby enabling us to respond quickly to changes in supply and demand. We also generate incremental revenue by providing services to our residents, including, at certain apartment communities, telecommunications services, appliance rental, carport, premier parking, garage and storage space rental. 

&#8226; 

Controlling Expenses. Cost controls are accomplished by local focus at the area level; taking advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level; and through electronic procurement. Refer to the Results of Operations discussion within Item 7 for further information regarding our cost controls. 

&#8226; 

Maintaining and Improving Apartment Community Quality. We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our apartment communities are important factors in our ability to maintain and increase rental rates. We invest in the maintenance and improvement of our apartment communities primarily through: Capital Improvements, which are non-redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its condition at the date of our purchase; Capital Replacements, which are capital additions made to replace capital assets consumed during our ownership; and Property Upgrades, which may include kitchen and bath remodeling, energy conservation projects, and investments in longer-lived materials designed to reduce turnover costs, such as simulated wood flooring and granite countertops. 

Redevelopment and Development 

We invest in the redevelopment of certain apartment communities in superior locations, when we believe the investment will yield risk-adjusted returns in excess of those from apartment communities sold in paired trades or in excess of the cost of equity issued to fund the equity component of the redevelopments. We have historically undertaken a range of redevelopment projects: from those in which buildings or exteriors are renovated without the need to vacate apartment homes; to those in which significant renovation of apartment homes may be accomplished upon lease expiration; and to those in which an entire building or community is wholly vacated. We primarily execute our redevelopment projects using a phased approach, where we renovate portions of an apartment community in stages, which allows additional flexibility in project costs and the ability to tailor our product offerings to customer response and rent achievement. Redevelopment and development work may include seeking entitlements from local governments, which, for redevelopments, enhance the value of our existing portfolio by increasing density, that is, the right to add apartment homes to a site. We have a specialized Redevelopment and Construction Services team which oversees these projects and uses third party contractors with expertise in the local markets. 

On a more limited basis, we may undertake ground-up development, either directly in connection with the redevelopment of an existing apartment community or at a new location. In the very limited instances where we elect to complete ground-up development in a new location (such as our One Canal development in Boston, Massachusetts), we have done so with a third party development partner with expertise in the local market and where such partner has accepted or substantially mitigated entitlement and construction risks. 

Portfolio Management 

Portfolio management involves the ongoing allocation of investment capital to meet our geographic and product type goals. We target geographic diversification in our portfolio in order to optimize risk-adjusted returns and to avoid the risk of undue concentration in any particular market. We seek to balance the portfolio by owning communities that offer apartment homes with a range of prices so as to diversify our exposure to economic downturns and to competitive new building supply. We also seek to own properties with the potential for profitable redevelopment. 

Our portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of &#8220;A,&#8221; &#8220;B&#8221; and &#8220;C+&#8221; quality conventional apartment communities, averaging &#8220;B/B+&#8221; in quality, and diversified among the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States, 

as measured by total apartment value. We measure conventional apartment community quality by comparing the average rents of our apartment homes to local market average rents as reported by a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance and analysis. Under this rating system, we classify as &#8220;A&#8221; quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than 125% of the local market average, as &#8220;B&#8221; quality apartment communities those earning rents between 90% and 125% of the local market average; &#8220;C+&#8221; quality assets are those with rents greater than $1,100 per month, but lower than 90% of local market average; and &#8220;C&#8221; quality assets are those with rents less than $1,100 per month and lower than 90% of local market average. We classify as &#8220;B/B+&#8221; quality a portfolio that on average earns rents between 100% and 125% of the local market average rents where the portfolio is located. Although some companies and analysts within the multifamily real estate industry use apartment community class ratings of &#8220;A,&#8221; &#8220;B&#8221; and &#8220;C,&#8221; some of which are tied to local market rent averages, the metrics used to classify apartment community quality as well as the timing for which local markets rents are calculated may vary from company to company. Accordingly, our rating system for measuring apartment community quality is neither broadly nor consistently used in the multifamily real estate industry. 

Our portfolio strategy is to sell each year the 5% to 10% of our portfolio with lower projected returns, lower operating margins, and lower expected future rent growth, and reinvest the sale proceeds in apartment communities already in our portfolio, through property upgrades and redevelopment, or through the purchase of other apartment communities and, in limited situations, the development of apartment communities. We execute our strategy through paired trades when the investment will yield risk-adjusted returns in excess of those of the apartment community sold and when portfolio quality is enhanced. Whenever possible, we structure transactions in a tax-efficient manner to preserve our invested capital. 

Balance Sheet and Liquidity 

Our leverage strategy seeks to increase financial returns while using leverage with appropriate caution. We target the ratio of Debt plus Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to be below 7.0x and we target the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest and Preferred Dividends to be greater than 2.5x. We also focus on the ratios of Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest. 

The majority of our leverage, approximately 93% &#32;at December 31, 2015 , consists of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated debt, and 6% &#32;at December 31, 2015 , consists of perpetual preferred equity, a combination which reduces our refunding and re-pricing risk. The majority of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation. Although our primary sources of leverage are property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing debt and perpetual preferred equity, we also have a revolving credit arrangement which we use for working capital and other short-term purposes. 

Culture 

Our culture is the key to our success. Our emphasis on a collaborative, respectful, and performance-oriented culture is what enables the continuing transformation of the Aimco business. In 2015, Aimco was recognized by the Denver Post as a Top Work Place for the third consecutive year. 

Competition 

In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our apartment communities we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our apartment communities compete directly with other rental apartments as well as condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our apartment communities are located. Principal factors of competition include rent or price charged, attractiveness of the location and apartment community and quality and breadth of services. The number of competitive apartment communities relative to demand in a particular area has a material effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our communities and on the rents we charge. In certain markets there exists an oversupply of single-family homes and condominiums relative to consumer demand, which affect the pricing and occupancy of our rental apartments. 

We also compete with other real estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies in acquiring, redeveloping, managing, obtaining financing for and disposing of apartment communities. This competition affects our ability to acquire apartment communities we want to add to our portfolio and the price that we pay in such acquisitions; our ability to finance or refinance communities in our portfolio and the cost of such financing; and our ability to dispose of communities we no longer desire to retain in our portfolio and the timing and price for which we dispose of such communities. 

Taxation 

Aimco 

Aimco has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, and intends to continue to operate in such a manner. Aimco&#8217;s current and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on its ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income. If Aimco continues to qualify for taxation as a REIT, Aimco will generally not be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax on its taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the &#8220;double taxation&#8221; (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation. 

Even if Aimco continues to qualify as a REIT, Aimco may be subject to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on its undistributed income. Aimco also will be required to pay a 100% tax on any net income on non-arm&#8217;s length transactions between Aimco and a taxable REIT subsidiary (described below) and on any net income from sales of apartment communities that were held for sale to customers in the ordinary course. In addition, Aimco could also be subject to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on items of tax preference. State and local tax laws may not conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment, and Aimco may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which Aimco transacts business. Any taxes imposed on Aimco reduce our operating cash flow and net income. 

Certain of Aimco&#8217;s operations or a portion thereof, including property management, asset management and risk management are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a subsidiary C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents and investment partners that cannot be offered directly by a REIT. We also use TRS entities to hold investments in certain apartment communities. 

The Aimco Operating Partnership 

The Aimco Operating Partnership is treated as a &#8220;pass-through&#8221; entity for United States Federal income tax purposes and is not subject to United States Federal income taxation. Each of its partners, however, is subject to tax on his or her allocable share of partnership tax items, including partnership income, gains, losses, deductions and credits, or Partnership Tax Items, for each taxable year during which he or she is a partner, regardless of whether he or she receives any actual distributions of cash or other property from the Aimco Operating Partnership during the taxable year. Generally, the characterization of any particular partnership tax item is determined by us, rather than at the partner level, and the amount of a partner&#8217;s allocable share of such item is governed by the terms of the Aimco Operating Partnership&#8217;s Partnership Agreement. AIMCO-GP, Inc., the general partner, is our &#8220;tax matters partner&#8221; for United States Federal income tax purposes. The tax matters partner is authorized, but not required, to take certain actions on behalf of the Aimco Operating Partnership with respect to tax matters. The Aimco Operating Partnership is subject to tax in certain states. 

Regulation 

General 

Apartment communities and their owners are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on apartment communities or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, such as legislation that has been considered in New York and certain cities in California, or other laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets. 

Environmental 

Various Federal, state and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present at an apartment community. These materials may include lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based fuels. Such laws often impose liability without regard to fault or whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of apartment communities, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our current apartment communities, communities we acquire or manage in 

the future, or communities we previously owned or operated in the past. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Insurance 

Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general liability, and workers&#8217; compensation. We believe that our insurance coverages adequately insure our apartment communities against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, terrorism and other perils, and adequately insure us against other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles, retentions and limits that are customary in the industry. We have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims handling and litigation management procedures to manage our exposure. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 1,591 &#32;employees, of which 1,108 &#32;were at the apartment community level, performing various on-site functions, with the balance managing corporate and area operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal, financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human resources and other support functions. As of December 31, 2015 , unions represented 89 &#32;of our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. 

Available Information 

Our combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through Aimco&#8217;s website at www.aimco.com . The information contained on Aimco&#8217;s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Aimco&#8217;s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;AIV.&#8221; In 2015 , Aimco&#8217;s chief executive officer submitted his annual corporate governance listing standards certification to the New York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified. 

