 Item 1. 

Business. 

Albemarle Corporation was incorporated in Virginia in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms &#8220;Albemarle,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or &#8220;the Company&#8221; mean Albemarle Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries. 

On January 12, 2015 (the &#8220;Acquisition Closing Date&#8221;), we completed the acquisition (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;) of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;Rockwood&#8221;) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;) for a purchase price of approximately $5.7 billion. As a result, Rockwood became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Albemarle. For additional information about the Merger, see &#8220;Recent Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Divestitures&#8221; beginning on page 10, and also Note 2, &#8220;Acquisitions,&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

We are a leading global developer, manufacturer and marketer of highly-engineered specialty chemicals that meets customer needs across a diverse range of end markets. The end markets we serve include petroleum refining, consumer electronics, energy storage, construction, automotive, steel and aerospace, lubricants, pharmaceuticals, crop protection, household appliances, heating, ventilation, aluminum finishing, food safety and custom chemistry services. We believe that our commercial and geographic diversity, technical expertise, innovative capability, flexible, low-cost global manufacturing base, experienced management team and strategic focus on our core base technologies will enable us to maintain leading market positions in those areas of the specialty chemicals industry in which we operate. 

We and our joint ventures currently operate 51 production and research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) facilities, as well as a number of administrative and sales offices, in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Australia. As of December 31, 2015 , we served approximately 30,000 &#32;customers in approximately 100 &#32;countries. For information regarding our unconsolidated joint ventures see Note 10, &#8220;Investments,&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Business Segments 

During 2015, our operations were managed and reported under three reportable segments: Performance Chemicals, Refining Solutions and Chemetall &#174; &#32;Surface Treatment. Financial results and discussion about our segments included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are organized according to these categories except where noted. 

For financial information regarding our reportable segments, including revenues generated for each of the last three fiscal years from each of the product categories included in our reportable segments, and geographic area information, see Note 25, &#32; &#8220;Segment and Geographic Area Information,&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

On October 26, 2015, we announced that effective January 1, 2016, Performance Chemicals will be split into two separate reportable segments: (1) Bromine Specialties, and (2) Lithium and Advanced Materials, which will include Lithium, Performance Catalyst Solutions and Curatives. Each unit will have a dedicated team of sales, product management, research &#38; development, process technology, manufacturing, sourcing, sales and operations planning and customer service groups and will have full accountability for improving execution through greater asset and market focus, agility and responsiveness. We expect this change to provide further clarity into the performance of each business. 

Performance Chemicals Segment 

As of December 31, 2015, our Performance Chemicals segment consisted of three product categories: Lithium, Performance Catalyst Solutions, and Bromine. 

Lithium. &#32;Our Lithium business develops advanced materials for a wide range of industries and end markets. We believe that our Lithium business is a low-cost producer of the most diverse product portfolio of lithium derivatives in the industry. 

We develop and manufacture a broad range of basic lithium compounds, including lithium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, lithium chloride, and value-added lithium specialties and reagents, including butyllithium and lithium aluminum hydride. Lithium is a key component in products and processes used in a variety of applications and industries, which include lithium batteries used in consumer electronics and automobiles, high performance greases, thermoplastic elastomers for car tires, rubber soles and plastic bottles, catalysts for chemical reactions, organic synthesis processes in the areas of steroid chemistry and vitamins, various life science applications, as well as intermediates in the pharmaceutical industry, among other applications. We also develop and manufacture cesium products for the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and zirconium, barium and titanium products for various pyrotechnical applications, including airbag igniters. 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

In addition to developing and supplying lithium compounds, we provide technical services, including the handling and use of reactive lithium products. We also offer our customers recycling services for lithium containing by-products resulting from synthesis with organolithium products, lithium metal and other reagents. We plan to continue to focus on the development of new products and applications. 

Lithium &#8212; Customers 

Our most significant customers include Panasonic Corporation, Syngenta AG, Umicore S.A., Samsung SDI Co. Ltd. and Royal DSM N.V. 

Lithium &#8212; Competition 

The global lithium market consists of producers located in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and, to a lesser extent, Africa. We believe that we are a leading global provider of lithium compounds. Major competitors include FMC Corporation, Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile S.A., SichuanTianqi Lithium, and Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium. Competition in this part of the business is based on product quality, reliability of supply and customer service. In the metal-based specialty chemicals business, key competitors include Cabot Corporation and Sigma-Aldrich Corporation. Competition in this part of the business is based on product quality and product diversity. 

Lithium &#8212; Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts 

We obtain lithium through solar evaporation of our ponds at the Salar de Atacama, in Chile, and in Silver Peak, Nevada. After we obtain the lithium brine from the Salar de Atacama, we process it into lithium carbonate and lithium chloride at a plant in nearby La Negra, Chile. The lithium brine from our Silver Peak site is processed into lithium carbonate at our plant in Silver Peak. Subsequently, in other locations in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;), Germany, France and Taiwan, we further process the materials into various derivatives, depending on the markets we serve. 

Our mineral rights with respect to the Salar de Atacama in Chile consist exclusively of our right to access lithium brine pursuant to a long-term contract with the Chilean government, originally entered into in January 1975 by one of our predecessors and subsequently amended and restated. Our contract with the Chilean government will remain in effect until the date on which we have produced and sold 200,000 metric tons of lithium in any of its forms from the Salar de Atacama. As of December 31, 2015 , the remaining amount of lithium we were permitted to sell under the contract equaled approximately 115,000 metric tons of total lithium. In February 2016 we announced that we were granted approval by the Environmental Assessment Commission of the Antofagasta Region to increase our currently authorized lithium brine removal rate in the Salar de Atacama. The size of the area at the Salar de Atacama covered by our claims is approximately 16,700 hectares. We currently own the land on which we operate our facility at the Salar de Atacama and our processing facility in La Negra. However, the ownership of the land at the Salar de Atacama will revert to the Chilean government once we have sold all amounts of lithium remaining under our contract with the Chilean government (the ownership of the land and fixed assets in La Negra will remain unchanged). In February 2016, we also announced that we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Chilean government that provides sufficient lithium to support the production of 70,000 metric tons annually of technical and battery grade lithium carbonate and 6,000 metric tons annually of lithium chloride in La Negra, over a 27-year period, beginning January 1, 2017. 

Our mineral rights in Silver Peak, Nevada consist exclusively of our right to access lithium brine pursuant to a settlement agreement with the U.S. government, originally entered into in June 1991 by one of our predecessors. Pursuant to this agreement, we have rights to all of the lithium that we can remove economically. We or our predecessors have been operating at the Silver Peak site since 1966. Our Silver Peak site covers a surface of approximately 15,301 acres, 10,826 acres of which we own through a subsidiary. The remaining acres are owned by the U.S. government from whom we lease the land pursuant to a lease agreement which is renewed annually. Based on our 2015 production levels, we believe that the amount of lithium brine we can economically obtain from our Silver Peak, Nevada site pursuant to our contract with the U.S. government could support the current levels of lithium carbonate production for approximately 20 years. Assuming certain operating conditions are satisfied, our annual lithium carbonate production capacity is estimated to be approximately 6,000 metric tons at our Silver Peak facility. However, no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of production of lithium carbonate at either Silver Peak or La Negra will be realized. 

We also own a 49% interest in Windfield Holdings Pty Ltd, which directly owns 100% of the equity of Talison Lithium Pty Ltd, a company incorporated in Australia (&#8220;Talison&#8221;). Talison, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns and operates a lithium mine in Greenbushes, Western Australia and mines lithium ore, which is then milled and processed to separate lithium concentrate from the rest of the ore. Talison currently sells the lithium concentrate to its shareholders. Talison has a leading position in two categories of lithium concentrates: (i) technical-grade lithium concentrates which have low iron content for use in the manufacture of glass, ceramics and heat-proof cookware; and (ii) a high-yielding chemical-grade lithium concentrate, 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

which is used to produce lithium chemicals which form the basis for manufacture of lithium-ion batteries for laptop computers, mobile phones, electric bicycles and electric vehicles. Assuming certain operating conditions are satisfied, the annual lithium concentrate production capacity at the Talison facility is estimated to be approximately 575,000 metric tons. However, no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of production of lithium concentrate at Talison will be realized. 

Performance Catalyst Solutions (&#8220;PCS&#8221;). &#32;We have four product lines in our PCS division: polymer catalysts, curatives, organometallics and electronic materials. We manufacture organometallic co-catalysts (e.g., aluminum, magnesium and zinc alkyls) as well as metallocene components and co-catalysts (e.g., methylaluminumoxane, organoborons, metallocene compounds, and finished polymerization catalysts comprising these products). We also offer finished single-site catalysts with or without our proprietary ActivCat &#174; &#32;activation technology and a line of proprietary Ziegler-Natta catalysts under the Advantage &#8482; &#32;brand. Our co-catalysts and finished catalysts are used in our customers&#8217; production of polyolefin polymers. Such polymers are commodity (i.e., Ziegler-Natta polymerization technology-based) and specialty (i.e., Single Site polymerization technology-based) plastics serving a wide variety of end markets including packaging, non-packaging, films and injection molding. Some of our organometallic products are also used in the manufacture of alpha-olefins (i.e., hexene, octene, decene). In electronic materials, we manufacture and sell high purity metal organic products into electronic applications such as the production of light-emitting diodes (&#8220;LEDs&#8221;) for displays and general lighting, as well as other products used in the production of solar cells. Our curatives include a range of curing agents used in polyurethanes, epoxies and other engineered resins. 

PCS &#8212; Customers 

Our PCS business customers include multinational corporations such as ExxonMobil Corporation, Chevron Corporation, Total Petrochemicals, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and Ineos Group Holdings S.A. There are thousands of polyolefin and elastomer units worldwide which require a constant supply of co-catalysts and finished catalysts. 

PCS&#8212;Competition 

Our PCS business serves the global market including the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Our major competitors in the PCS market include AkzoNobel, Chemtura Corporation and W.R. Grace &#38; Co. in the polyolefin catalyts and co-catalysts areas. Lonza is our main competitor in the curatives market. 

PCS &#8212; Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts 

The major raw materials we use in our PCS operations include aluminum, ethylene, alpha-olefins, isobutylene and toluene, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. These raw materials may nevertheless be subject to significant volatility despite our mitigating efforts. Our profitability may be affected if we are unable to recover significant raw material costs from our customers. 

Bromine. &#32;Our bromine and bromine-based business includes products used in fire safety solutions and other specialty chemicals applications. Our fire safety technology enables the use of plastics in high performance, high heat applications by enhancing the flame resistant properties of these materials. Some of the end market products that benefit from our fire safety technology include plastic enclosures for consumer electronics, printed circuit boards, wire and cable, electrical connectors, textiles and foam insulation. Our bromine based business also includes specialty chemicals products such as elemental bromine, alkyl bromides, inorganic bromides, brominated powdered activated carbon and a number of bromine fine chemicals. Our products are used in chemical synthesis, oil and gas well drilling and completion fluids, mercury control, water purification, beef and poultry processing and various other industrial applications. Other specialty chemicals that we produce include tertiary amines for surfactants, biocides, and disinfectants and sanitizers. 

Bromine &#8212; Customers 

Our bromine business offers more than 40 &#32;products to a variety of end markets. We sell our products mostly to chemical manufacturers and processors, such as polymer resin suppliers, drilling and oil service companies, beef and poultry processors, water treatment and photographic companies, energy producers and other specialty chemical companies. 

Sales of bromine and brominated derivatives in Asia are expected to grow long-term due to the underlying growth in consumer demand and the shift of the production of consumer electronics from the U.S. and Europe to Asia. In response to this development, we have established a sales and marketing network in China, Japan, Korea and Singapore with products sourced from the U.S., Europe, China and the Middle East. 

A number of customers of our bromine business operate in cyclical industries, including the consumer electronics and oil field industries. As a result, demand from our customers in such industries is also cyclical. 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

Bromine&#8212;Competition 

Our bromine business serves the following geographic markets: the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our most significant competitors are Chemtura Corporation and Israel Chemicals Ltd. 

Bromine &#8212; Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts 

The bromine we use is sourced from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our bromine production operations in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We estimate that, at current production levels, we will be able to produce bromine in Arkansas for more than 50 &#32;years. In addition, through our 50% interest in Jordan Bromine Company Limited (&#8220;JBC&#8221;), a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we source bromine from the Dead Sea, which is believed to have indefinite quantities of brine. In addition, we have a joint venture with Weifang Sinobrom Import and Export Company, Ltd. (&#8220;Sinobrom&#8221;) in China that allows us the option to source bromine directly from China&#8217;s Shandong Province brine fields. 

Refining Solutions Segment 

Our two main product lines in this segment are (i) Clean Fuels Technologies, which is primarily composed of hydroprocessing catalysts (&#8220;HPC&#8221;), and (ii) Heavy Oil Upgrading (&#8220;HOU&#8221;), which is primarily composed of fluidized catalytic cracking (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) catalysts and additives. HPC products are widely applied throughout the refining industry. Their application enables the upgrading of oil fractions to clean fuels and other usable oil feedstocks and products by removing sulfur, nitrogen and other impurities from the feedstock. In addition, they improve product properties by adding hydrogen and in some cases improve the performance of downstream catalysts and processes. We continuously seek to add more value to refinery operations by offering HPC products that meet our customers&#8217; requirements for profitability and performance in the very demanding refining market. FCC catalysts assist in the high yield cracking of less desired refinery petroleum streams into derivative, higher-value products such as transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks like propylene. Our FCC additives are used to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in FCC units and to increase liquefied petroleum gas olefins yield, such as propylene, and to boost octane in gasoline. Albemarle offers unique refinery catalysts to crack and treat the lightest to the heaviest feedstocks while meeting refinery yield and product needs. We offer a wide range of HPC products and approximately 60 &#32;different FCC catalysts and additives products to our customers. 

Customers 

Our Refining Solutions segment customers include multinational corporations such as ExxonMobil Corporation, Chevron Corporation, TOTAL S.A., Saudi Aramco and its joint ventures, and INEOS Group Holdings S.A.; independent petroleum refining companies such as Valero Energy Corporation, SK Energy Holdings, Reliance Industries and Marathon Petroleum; national petroleum refining companies such as Petr&#243;leo Brasileiro S.A., Petr&#243;leos Mexicanos, PetroVietnam, Kuwait National Petroleum Company, Abu Dhabi National Oil Company and Indian Oil Corp. 

In 2015 the total number of refineries world wide was reduced from 643 to 634 and we see this trend continuing with smaller refineries shutting down and being replaced by mega refineries, with growth concentrated in the Middle East. Oil refining has once again increased after minor declines in the last two years. 

We estimate that there are currently approximately 500 &#32;FCC units being operated globally, each of which requires a constant supply of FCC catalysts. In addition, we estimate that there are approximately 3,000 &#32;HPC units being operated globally, or a capacity of approximately 44 million barrels per day, each of which typically requires replacement HPC catalysts once every one to four years. 

Competition 

Our Refining Solutions segment serves the global market including the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. 

Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and the maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the Catalysts marketplace. Through our research and development programs, we strive to differentiate our business by developing value-added products and products based on proprietary technologies. 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

Our major competitors in the HPC catalysts market include Criterion Catalysts and Technologies, Advanced Refining Technologies and Haldor Topsoe. Our major competitors in the FCC catalysts market include W.R. Grace &#38; Co., BASF Corporation and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec). 

Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts 

The major raw materials we use in our Refining Solutions operations include sodium silicate, sodium aluminate, kaolin, rare earths and metals such as molybdenum, nickel and cobalt, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. These raw materials may nevertheless be subject to significant volatility despite our mitigating efforts. Our profitability may be affected if we are unable to recover significant raw material costs from our customers. 

Chemetall Surface Treatment Segment 

Our Chemetall Surface Treatment segment operates under the Chemetall &#174; &#32;brand name and is a leading global supplier of applied surface treatments and services for metal, plastic and glass substrates in a wide range of industries and end markets. Chemetall Surface Treatment&#8217;s products are used for a variety of applications and serve the automotive, aerospace, aluminum finishing, coil, cold forming, glass and general industrial markets, including metal fabrication. We also provide process control and on-site support at our customers&#8217; facilities with local representation worldwide. Our systems are designed to ensure that the final requirements of our customers&#8217; treated products are met in terms of proper surface treatment prior to painting, corrosion protection and preservation of mechanical properties. 

Chemetall Surface Treatment competes in markets characterized by proprietary manufacturing technologies and know-how, demanding product-handling requirements, rigorous product quality and performance specifications, all accompanied by longstanding customer relationships. In order to remain competitive, we are focused on developing innovative products, improving process technologies, expanding our customer base, and broadening our technology capabilities in existing and new markets through internal research and development and bolt-on acquisitions. 

Customers 

Chemetall Surface Treatment serves customers globally in a wide variety of industries with a diverse product portfolio. Our customer base ranges from local, small and mid-size companies to global, multinational Fortune 500 companies such as Airbus Group, Arcelor Mittal, Caterpillar, Daimler, Ford, Renault-Nissan, Novelis, PSA Peugeot Citroen and Hyundai/KIA, among many others. 

Competition 

We believe we are a global leader in the surface treatment market. Our global competitors include Henkel, Nihon Parkerizing, PPG Industries and Nippon Paint. Competition in this market is based primarily on customer service, product innovation and quality, and technological capabilities. 

Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts 

The major raw materials used in our Chemetall Surface Treatment segment include phosphoric acid and phosphates, as well as non-ferrous metals such as zinc and nickel. The raw materials used in our operations are purchased from various suppliers at prices that we believe are competitive. We secure our supply of phosphoric acid, which is used in our conversion coating process, through quarterly supply contracts with fixed prices. Phosphoric acid is produced from phosphate rock, and the majority of global phosphate rock reserves are located in Northern Africa, China, the Middle East, U.S. and Russia. Even though we do not expect a shortage of phosphate rock and phosphoric acid in the near term, we employ a global procurement strategy to mitigate the risk of supply disruptions. Non-ferrous metal products are traded on exchanges such as the London Metal Exchange (LME). We believe that zinc and nickel will be available in sufficient quantities for the foreseeable future. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We have an international strategic account program that uses cross-functional teams to serve large global customers. This program emphasizes creative strategies to improve and strengthen strategic customer relationships with emphasis on creating value for customers and promoting post-sale service. Complementing this program are regional Albemarle sales personnel around the world who serve numerous additional customers within North America, Europe, the Middle East, India, Asia Pacific, Russia, Africa and Latin America. We also utilize commissioned sales representatives and specialists in specific market areas, some of which are affiliated with subsidiaries of large chemical companies. 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

Research and Development 

We believe that in order to generate revenue growth, maintain our margins and remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, product and process improvements and specialized customer services. Through research and development, we continue to seek increased margins by introducing value-added products and proprietary processes and innovative green chemistry technologies. Our green chemistry efforts focus on the development of products that benefit society in a manner that minimizes waste and the use of raw materials and energy, avoids the use of toxic reagents and solvents and is produced in safe, environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. Green chemistry is encouraged with our researchers through periodic focus group discussions and special rewards and recognition for outstanding new green developments. 

Our research and development efforts support each of our business segments. As of December 31, 2015 , the focus of research in Performance Chemicals is divided among new and improved flame retardants, new uses for bromine and bromine-based products, curing agents and the development of efficient processes for the manufacture of chemical intermediates and actives for the pharmaceutical and agrichemical industries. Fire safety solutions research is focused primarily on developing new flame retardants which not only meet the higher performance requirements required by today&#8217;s polymer producers, formulators and original equipment manufacturers but which also have superior toxicological and environmental profiles. Another area of research is the development of bromine-based products for use as biocides in industrial water treatment and food safety applications and as additives used to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. Curatives research is focused primarily on improving and extending our line of curing agents and formulations. The objective of the Lithium research and development effort is to develop innovative chemistries and technologies with applications relevant within targeted key markets. Research and development efforts are generally focused on both process development (e.g., pilot plant for the recycling of lithium ion batteries) as well as new product development (e.g., for lithium ion battery applications). PCS research efforts are focused on catalyst performance as well as process improvements. 

Our Refining Solutions research is focused on the needs of our refinery catalysts customers. Refinery catalysts research is focused primarily on the development of more effective catalysts and related additives to produce clean fuels and to maximize the production of the highest value refined products through hydrotreating catalyst technologies. With regard to HOU, we focus our efforts on the production of more and better fuels from more complex and lower accessible/convertible feedstock through the use of novel FCC technologies. 

Chemetall Surface Treatment&#8217;s research and development activities are focused on the development of products to meet customer demands that are also in accordance with regional environmental requirements. Our goal is to help solve our customers&#8217; complex manufacturing challenges by developing proprietary formulations utilizing industry knowledge, expertise and a forward-looking team of individuals with manufacturing know-how. Our commitment to research and development and product portfolio enhancements are an important aspect of our business that characterizes Chemetall as a supplier of choice that creates value for our customers. 

We have incurred research and development expenses of $102.9 million , $88.3 million &#32;and $82.2 million &#32;during 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses and trade names, is an important component of our business. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 3,000 &#32;active and approximately 1,500 &#32;pending patent applications in key strategic markets worldwide. We also have acquired rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses, and we license certain patents and inventions to third parties. 

Regulation 

Our business is subject to a broad array of employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. We also are subject to similar state laws and regulations as well as local laws and regulations for our non-U.S. operations. We devote significant resources and have developed and implemented comprehensive programs to promote the health and safety of our employees and we maintain an active health, safety and environmental program. We finished 2015 &#32;with an occupational injury and illness rate of 0.60 &#32;for Albemarle employees and nested contractors, compared to 0.327 &#32;in 2014 . 

Our business and our customers also may be subject to significant requirements under the European Community Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (&#8220;REACH&#8221;). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern&#8212;such as Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic (&#8220;CMRs&#8221;); Persistent, 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

Bioaccumulative and Toxic (&#8220;PBTs&#8221;); very Persistent, very Bioaccumulative (&#8220;vPvB&#8221;); and endocrine disruptors&#8212;will be subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. The REACH regulations impose significant additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will require us to incur significant additional compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products that are not regulated by REACH, which could also result in a decrease in the demand of certain of our products subject to the REACH regulations. 

Historically, there has been scrutiny of certain brominated flame retardants by regulatory authorities, legislative bodies and environmental interest groups in various countries. We manufacture a broad range of brominated flame retardant products, which are used in a variety of applications. Concern about the impact of some of our products on human health or the environment may lead to regulation, or reaction in our markets independent of regulation. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us. Key aspects of our operations are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition, we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our efforts to comply with them. 

Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities also may be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. We are subject to such laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as CERCLA or Superfund, in the U.S., and similar foreign and state laws. We may have liability as a potentially responsible party (&#8220;PRP&#8221;) with respect to active off-site locations under CERCLA or state equivalents. We have sought to resolve our liability as a PRP at these sites through indemnification by third parties and settlements, which would provide for payment of our allocable share of remediation costs. Because the cleanup costs are estimates and are subject to revision as more information becomes available about the extent of remediation required, and in some cases we have asserted a defense to any liability, our estimates could change. Moreover, liability under CERCLA and equivalent state statutes may be joint and several, meaning that we could be required to pay in excess of our pro rata share of remediation costs. Our understanding of the financial strength of other PRPs has been considered, where appropriate, in estimating our liabilities. Accruals for these matters are included in the environmental reserve discussed below. Our management is actively involved in evaluating environmental matters and, based on information currently available to us, we have concluded that our outstanding environmental liabilities for unresolved waste sites currently known to us should not have a material effect on our operations. 

We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and may become subject to claims for personal injury and/or property damage relating to the release of such substances into the environment. In addition, some of our current properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes, which could contain currently unknown contamination that could expose us to governmental requirements or claims relating to environmental remediation, personal injury and/or property damage. While we conduct our operations so as to minimize the risk of incurring such losses, the nature of our business and the types of operations in which we engage create a potential for such losses to occur. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of production, pollution and other environmental damages. Depending on the frequency and severity of such incidents, it is possible that the Company&#8217;s operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators could be impaired. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our product if they view our safety record as unacceptable. This could also cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. However, we believe that the likelihood of an environmental-related catastrophic occurrence or a series of occurrences that could materially affect the Company&#8217;s financial position or competitiveness is low. 

We record accruals for environmental matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that new information or future developments could require us to reassess our potential exposure related to environmental matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in order to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that other developments, such as increasingly strict 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

environmental laws, regulations and orders of regulatory agencies, as well as claims for damages to property and the environment or injuries to employees and other persons resulting from our current or past operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities in the future. As this information becomes available, or other relevant developments occur, we will adjust our accrual amounts accordingly. While there are still uncertainties related to the ultimate costs we may incur, based upon our evaluation and experience to date, we believe our reserves are adequate. We cannot assure you that, as a result of former, current or future operations, there will not be some future impact on us relating to new regulations or additional environmental remediation or restoration liabilities. See &#8220;Safety and Environmental Matters&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 53. 

Climate Change 

The growing concerns about climate change and the related imposition by governments of more stringent regulations may provide us with new or expanded business opportunities. The Company seeks to capitalize on the &#8220;green revolution&#8221; by providing solutions to companies pursuing alternative fuel products and technologies (such as renewable fuels, gas-to-liquids and others), emission control technologies (including mercury emissions), alternative transportation vehicles and energy storage technologies and other similar solutions. As demand for, and legislation mandating or incentivizing the use of alternative fuel technologies that limit or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions increase, we continue to monitor the market and offer solutions where we have appropriate technology and believe we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise if new legislation is enacted. 

Recent Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Divestitures 

Over the last three years, we have devoted resources to acquisitions and joint ventures, including the subsequent integration of acquired businesses. These acquisitions and joint ventures have expanded our base business, provided our customers with a wider array of products and presented new alternatives for discovery through additional chemistries. Following is a summary of our acquisitions and joint ventures during recent years. 

On January 12, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Rockwood for a purchase price of approximately $5.7 billion, with Rockwood becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Albemarle. Through the acquisition of Rockwood, we became a leading integrated and low cost global producer of lithium and lithium compounds used in lithium-ion batteries for electronic devices, alternative transportation vehicles and energy storage technologies, meeting the significant growth in global demand for these products. We are also now one of the largest global producers of surface treatments and coatings for metal processing, servicing the automotive, aerospace and general industrial markets. The acquisition of Rockwood reflects our commitment to drive sustainable growth. 

On February 19, 2015, our Chemetall Surface Treatment segment completed the acquisition of all remaining shares of its Shanghai Chemetall joint venture for a purchase price of $57.6 million, and is now the sole owner of the entity. 

On May 1, 2015, our Chemetall Surface Treatment segment completed the acquisition of the aluminum finishing business of Chemal GmbH &#38; Co. KG (&#8220;Chemal GmbH&#8221;), based in Hamm, Germany. Cash paid in connection with this acquisition was approximately $2.2 million. 

On December 23, 2015, we paid approximately $4.8 million in connection with the acquisition of the remaining noncontrolling interests&#8217; share of Nanjing Chemetall Surface Technologies Co., Ltd. 

In 2015, we announced our intention to pursue strategic alternatives, including divestitures, related to certain businesses which include minerals-based flame retardants and specialty chemicals, fine chemistry services and metal sulfides. On January 4, 2016, we completed the sale of our Tribotecc metal sulfides business to Treibacher Industrie AG for net proceeds of approximately $137 million. Included in the transaction were sites in Vienna and Arnoldstein, Austria, and Tribotecc&#8217;s proprietary sulfide synthesis process. On February 1, 2016, we completed the sale of our minerals-based flame retardants and specialty chemicals businesses to Huber Engineered Materials, a division of J.M. Huber Corporation, for net proceeds of approximately $187 million. The transaction includes Albemarle&#8217;s Martinswerk GmbH subsidiary and manufacturing facility located in Bergheim, Germany, and Albemarle&#8217;s 50% ownership interest in Magnifin Magnesiaprodukte GmbH, a joint-venture with Radex Heraklith Industriebeteiligung AG at Breitenau, Austria. 

On September 1, 2014, we closed the sale of our antioxidant, ibuprofen and propofol businesses and assets to SI Group, Inc. and received net proceeds of $104.7 million. Included in the transaction were Albemarle&#8217;s manufacturing sites in Orangeburg, South Carolina and Jinshan, China, along with Albemarle&#8217;s antioxidant product lines manufactured in Ningbo, China. 

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries 

&#160; 

In 2014, the Company and ICL Industrial Products (&#8220;ICL&#8221;) announced entering into an agreement to establish a manufacturing joint venture for the production of ICL&#8217;s FR-122P polymeric flame retardant and Albemarle&#8217;s GreenCrest&#8482; polymeric flame retardant. In 2015, the parties terminated their agreement due to the likelihood that, for purposes of competition law approvals, the duration of the proposed joint venture would need to be shortened to such an extent that the return on investment would no longer be attractive. In lieu of the joint venture, the parties have signed a long-term supply arrangement pursuant to which ICL would supply the GreenCrest&#8482; polymeric flame retardant to the Company. 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2016, we had 6,963 &#32;employees of whom 2,990 , or 43% , are employed in the U.S. and Latin America; 2,740 , or 39% , are employed in Europe; 894 , or 13% , are employed in Asia and 339 , or 5% , are employed in the Middle East. Certain of these employees are represented by unions or works councils. We believe that we generally have a good relationship with our employees, and with the unions and works councils that represent certain employees. 

Available Information 

Our internet website address is http://www.albemarle.com . We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as well as reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Albemarle. 

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit and Finance, Health, Safety and Environment, Executive Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are also available on our website and are available in print to any shareholder upon request by writing to Investor Relations, 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801, or by calling (225) 388-8011. 

