 Item 1. Business 

General 

Unless otherwise indicated, references to &#147;Astro-Med,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; and &#147;us&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Astro-Med, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Astro-Med designs, develops, manufactures and distributes a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems, including both hardware and software, which incorporate advanced technologies in order to acquire, store, analyze, and present data in multiple formats. Target markets for hardware and software products of the Company include aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemicals, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation. 

The Company&#146;s products are distributed through its own sales force and authorized dealers in the United States. We sell to customers outside of the United States primarily through our branch offices in Canada, Europe and Asia as well as through independent dealers and representatives. Approximately 30% of the Company&#146;s sales in fiscal 2016 were to customers located outside the United States. 

Astro-Med operates its business through two operating segments, QuickLabel and Astro-Med Test &#38; Measurement (T&#38;M). Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 

On June 19, 2015, Astro-Med completed the asset purchase of the aerospace printer product line from Rugged Information Technology Equipment Corporation (RITEC) and on January 22, 2014, Astro-Med completed the acquisition of the aerospace printer product line from Miltope Corporation. Astro-Med&#146;s aerospace printer product line is part of the T&#38;M product group and is reported as part of the T&#38;M segment. The results of Miltope&#146;s aerospace printer product line operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company for all periods presented. The Company began shipment of the RITEC products in the third quarter of the current fiscal year. Refer to Note 2, &#147;Acquisition,&#148; in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 

On September 25, 2015, the Company announced it would immediately begin doing business as AstroNova on a worldwide basis. The name change is part of the plan to modernize the Company and effectively communicate our strategy. The AstroNova name and brand emphasizes our traditional strengths in aerospace and acknowledges our expanding presence in test &#38; measurement, product identification and other new areas where we can apply our data visualization technology. Astro-Med&#146;s aerospace products and T&#38;M business will adopt the AstroNova brand. QuickLabel products will continue to go to market under the QuickLabel brand. 

&#160; 

The Company has filed for trademark protection of the AstroNova name and logo in the United States and other countries. 

Unless and until the Company formally changes its name, the Company&#146;s common stock will continue to trade on the NASDAQ Global Market stock exchange under its name, Astro-Med, Inc., using its present ticker symbol, ALOT. 

The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations&#148; on pages 16 through 23 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Description of Business 

Product Overview 

Astro-Med leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, manufacture, and market specialty printing systems, test and measurement systems and related services for select growing markets on a global basis. The business consists of two segments, specialty printing systems and test and measurement systems, sold under the brand names QuickLabel &#174; and Astro-Med &#174; Test &#38; Measurement (T&#38;M). 

Products sold under the QuickLabel brand are used in industrial and commercial product packaging and automatic identification applications to digitally print custom labels and other visual identification marks on demand. Products sold under the Astro-Med T&#38;M brand acquire and record visual and electronic signal data from local and networked data streams and sensors. The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats. In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution airborne printers. 

QuickLabel brand products include digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems as well as a full line of consumables including labels, tags, inks, toner, and thermal transfer ribbons. In addition, QuickLabel sells special software used to design labels and other identification marks for a wide variety of applications especially in the field of packaging. QuickLabel provides training and support on a worldwide basis via highly trained service technicians. 

In the color label market, QuickLabel offers a broad range of entry-level, mid-range, and high-performance digital label printers, providing customers a continuous path to upgrade to new labeling products. QuickLabel products are primarily sold to manufacturers, processors, and retailers who label products on a short-run basis. Users can benefit from the time and cost-savings of digitally printing their own labels on-demand. Industries that commonly benefit from short-run label printing include apparel, chemicals, cosmetics, food and beverage, medical products, and pharmaceuticals, among many other packaged goods. 

Current QuickLabel models include the Kiaro! family of high-speed inkjet color label printers and the QLS-4100 Xe color thermal transfer label printer. QuickLabel also sells and supports its Pronto! family of barcode printers which utilize single color-thermal transfer label printing technology as well as an array of custom designed OEM printers. 

Products sold under the Astro-Med T&#38;M brand acquire and record visual and electronic signal data from local and networked data streams and sensors. The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats. The Company supplies a range of products and services that include hardware, software and consumables to customers who are in a variety of industries. 

Astro-Med T&#38;M products include the Daxus &#174; portable data acquisition system, TMX&#153; high-speed data acquisition system, Dash &#174; 8HF-HS data recorders, Everest &#174; telemetry recorders, ToughWriter &#174; , Miltope-brand and RITEC-brand airborne printers and ToughSwitch &#174; ruggedized Ethernet switches. 

Astro-Med&#146;s airborne printers are used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger 

&#160; 

data, and various air traffic control data. ToughSwitch Ethernet switches are used in military aircraft and military vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devices. The airborne printers and Ethernet switches are ruggedized to comply with rigorous military and commercial flightworthiness standards for operation under extreme environmental conditions. The Company is currently furnishing ToughWriter airborne printers for numerous aircraft made by Airbus, Boeing, Embraer, Bombardier, Lockheed, Gulfstream and others. 

The Company&#146;s family of portable data recorders is used in research and development (R&#38;D) and maintenance applications in aerospace and defense, energy discovery and production operations, rapid rail, automotive, and a variety of other transportation and industrial applications. The TMX&#153; data acquisition system is designed for data capture of long-term testing where the ability to monitor high channel counts and view a wide variety of input signals, including time-stamped and synchronized video capture data and audio notation is important. 

Everest telemetry recorders are used widely in the aerospace industry to monitor and track space vehicles, aircraft, missiles and other systems in flight. 

Technology 

The core technologies of Astro-Med are data visualization technologies that relate to (1) acquiring data, (2) conditioning the data, (3) displaying the data on hard copy, monitor or electronic storage media, and (4) analyzing the data. 

Patents and Copyrights 

Astro-Med holds a number of product patents in the United States and in foreign countries. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our technology and brand name. While we consider our intellectual property to be important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on the Company&#146;s business taken as a whole. 

Manufacturing and Supplies 

Astro-Med manufactures most of the products that it designs and sells. Raw materials and supplies are typically available from a wide variety of sources. Astro-Med manufactures most of the sub-assemblies and parts in-house including printed circuit board assemblies, harnesses, machined parts, and general final assembly. Many parts are standard electronic items available from multiple sources. Other parts are designed by us and manufactured by outside vendors. There are a few parts that are sole source, but these parts could be sourced elsewhere with appropriate changes in the design of our product. 

Product Development 

Astro-Med maintains an active program of product research and development. During fiscal 2016 and 2015, we spent $6,945,000 and $5,802,000, respectively, on Company-sponsored product development. We are committed to continuous product development as essential to our organic growth and expect to continue our focus on research and development efforts in fiscal 2017 and beyond. 

Marketing and Competition 

The Company competes worldwide in multiple markets. In the specialty printing field, we believe we are a market leader in bench-top color label printing technology and in aerospace printers. In the data acquisition area, we believe that we are one of the leaders in portable high speed data acquisition systems. 

We retain a leadership position by virtue of proprietary technology, product reputation, delivery, technical assistance, and service to customers. The number of competitors varies by product line. Our management 

&#160; 

believes that we have a market leadership position in many of the markets we serve. Key competitive factors vary among our product lines, but include technology, quality, service and support, distribution network, and breadth of product and service offerings. 

Our products are sold by direct field salespersons as well as independent dealers and representatives. In the United States, the Company has factory-trained direct field salespeople located in major cities from coast to coast specializing in either QuickLabel or Astro-Med T&#38;M products. Additionally, we have direct field sales or service centers in Canada, China, France, Germany, Mexico, Southeast Asia and the United Kingdom staffed by our own employees. In the rest of the world, Astro-Med utilizes approximately 90 independent dealers and representatives selling and marketing our products in 64 countries. 

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in either of the last two fiscal years. 

International Sales 

In fiscal 2016 and 2015, net sales to customers in various geographic areas outside the United States, primarily in Canada and Western Europe, amounted to $26,342,000 and $26,853,000, respectively. 

Order Backlog 

Astro-Med&#146;s backlog fluctuates regularly. It consists of a blend of orders for end user customers as well as original equipment manufacturer customers. Manufacturing is geared to forecasted demands and applies a rapid turn cycle to meet customer expectations. Accordingly, the amount of order backlog may not indicate future sales trends. Backlog at January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $16,630,000 and $12,061,000, respectively. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, Astro-Med employed 329 people. We are generally able to satisfy our employment requirements. No employees are represented by a union. We believe that employee relations are good. 

Other Information 

The Company&#146;s business is not seasonal in nature. However, our sales are impacted by the size of certain individual transactions, which can cause fluctuations in sales from quarter to quarter. 

Available Information 

We make available on our website (www.astronovainc.com) the Company&#146;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also accessible on the SEC&#146;s website at http://www.sec.gov. 

