 Item 1. Business. 

Altex Industries, Inc. (or the "Registrant" or the "Company," each of which terms, when used herein, refer to Altex Industries, Inc. and/or its subsidiary) is a holding company with one full-time employee and one part-time employee that was incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Through its operating subsidiary, AOC, the Company currently owns interests, including working interests, in productive onshore oil and gas properties, has bought and sold producing oil and gas properties, and, to a lesser extent, has participated in the drilling of exploratory and development wells, and in recompletions of existing wells.

All of AOC's interests are in properties operated by others. An interest owner in a property not operated by that interest owner must rely on information regarding the property provided by the operator, even though there can be no assurance that such information is complete, accurate, or current. In addition, an owner of a working interest in a property is potentially responsible for 100% of all liabilities associated with that property, regardless of the size of the working interest actually owned.

The operators of producing properties in which AOC has an interest sell produced oil and gas to refiners, pipeline operators, and processing plants. If a refinery, pipeline, or processing plant that purchases such production were taken out of service, the operator could be forced to halt the production that is purchased by such refinery, pipeline, or plant.

Although many entities produce oil and gas, competitive factors play a material role in AOC's production operations only to the extent that such factors affect demand for and prices of oil and gas and demand for, supply of, and prices of oilfield services. The sale of oil and gas is regulated by Federal, state, and local agencies, and AOC is also subject to Federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the environment. These laws and regulations generally provide for control of pollutants released into the environment and require responsible parties to undertake remediation. AOC regularly assesses its exposure to environmental liability and to reclamation, restoration, and dismantlement expense ("RR&#38;D"), which activities are covered by Federal, state, and local regulation. AOC does not believe that it currently has any material exposure to environmental liability or to RR&#38;D, net of salvage value, although this cannot be assured. (See Management's Discussion and Analysis below.)

