 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

American National Bankshares Inc. is a one-bank holding company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1984. On September 1, 1984, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of American National Bank and Trust Company, a national banking association chartered in 1909 under the laws of the United States. American National Bank and Trust Company is the only banking subsidiary of the Company. 

On July 1, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of MidCarolina Financial Corporation ("MidCarolina") pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated December 15, 2010, between the Company and MidCarolina. MidCarolina was headquartered in Burlington, North Carolina, and engaged in banking operations through its subsidiary bank, MidCarolina Bank. The transaction has expanded the Company's footprint in North Carolina, adding eight branches in Alamance and Guilford Counties . 

On January 1, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of MainStreet BankShares, Inc. ("MainStreet") pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of August 24, 2014, between the Company and MainStreet. Immediately after the merger of MainStreet into the Company, Franklin Community Bank, N.A. ("Franklin Bank"), MainStreet's wholly-owned bank subsidiary, merged with and into the Bank. 

Pursuant to the MainStreet Merger Agreement, the former holders of shares of MainStreet common stock received $3.46 in cash and 0.482 shares of the Company's common stock for each share of MainStreet common stock held immediately prior to the effective date of the merger, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. Each option to purchase shares of MainStreet common stock that was outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the merger vested upon the merger and was converted into an option to purchase shares of the Company's common stock, adjusted based on a 0.643 exchange ratio. Each share of the Company's common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger remained outstanding and was unaffected by the merger. The cash portion of the merger consideration was funded through a cash dividend of $6,000,000 from the Bank to the Company, and no borrowing was incurred by the Company or the Bank in connection with the merger. 

MainStreet was the holding company for Franklin Bank. Immediately prior to the Company's acquisition of MainStreet on January 1, 2015, MainStreet had total net loans of approximately $122,000,000, total assets of approximately $164,000,000, and total deposits of approximately $137,000,000. Franklin Bank provided banking services to its customers from three banking offices located in Rocky Mount, Hardy, and Union Hall, Virginia, which are now branch offices of the Bank. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the operations of the Company are conducted at twenty-five banking offices and two loan production offices in Roanoke, Virginia and Raleigh, North Carolina. The Bank provides a full array of financial products and services, including commercial, mortgage, and consumer banking; trust and investment services; and insurance. Services are also provided through thirty-three Automated Teller Machines ("ATMs"), "Online Banking," and "Telephone Banking." 

The Company has two reportable segments, (i) community banking and (ii) trust and investment services. For more financial data and other information about each of the Company&#8217;s operating segments, refer to &#8220;Note 21 - Segment and Related Information&#8221; of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Competition and Markets 

Vigorous competition exists in the Company's service areas. The Company competes not only with national, regional, and community banks, but also with other types of financial institutions including savings banks, finance companies, mutual and money market fund providers, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, and mortgage companies. 

The Company has the largest deposit market share in the City of Danville, Virginia. The Company had a deposit market share in the Danville Micropolitan Statistical Area of 32.8% at June 30, 2015, based on Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") data. The Company has the second largest deposit market share in Pittsylvania County, Virginia. The Company had a deposit market share in Pittsylvania County of 21.1% at June 30, 2015, based on FDIC data. 

The Southern Virginia market, in which the Company has a significant presence, continues to experience slow economic growth, like much of the country. The region's economic base continues to be weighted toward the manufacturing sector. Although the region was negatively impacted by the elimination of many textile plant closings over several decades, the area has experienced some new manufacturing plant openings as well as job growth in the technology area. Other important industries include farming, tobacco processing and sales, food processing, and packaging tape production. 

The Company's market areas in North Carolina are Alamance County and Guilford County, North Carolina, where there is strong competition in attracting deposits and making loans. Its most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings institutions and credit unions located in the market area, including large financial institutions that have greater financial and marketing resources available to them. The Company had a deposit market share in Alamance County of 13.6% at June 30, 2015, based on FDIC data, which was the second largest of any FDIC-insured institution. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Company and the Bank are extensively regulated under federal and state law. The following information describes certain aspects of that regulation applicable to the Company and the Bank and does not purport to be complete. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in U.S. Congress, in state legislatures, and before the various bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have on the Company and the Bank are impossible to determine with any certainty. A change in applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material impact on the business, operations, and earnings of the Company and the Bank. 

American National Bankshares Inc. 

American National Bankshares Inc. is qualified as a bank holding company ("BHC") within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB"). As a bank holding company, American National Bankshares Inc. is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the FRB and is required to file various reports and additional information with the FRB. American National Bankshares Inc. is also registered under the bank holding company laws of Virginia and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Virginia State Corporation Commission (the "SCC"). 

Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, a BHC may elect to become a financial holding company and thereby engage in a broader range of financial and other activities than are permissible for traditional BHC's. In order to qualify for the election, all of the depository institution subsidiaries of the BHC must be well capitalized, well managed, and have achieved a rating of "satisfactory" or better under the Community Reinvestment Act (the "CRA"). Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in activities that are "financial in nature" or incidental or complementary thereto as determined by the FRB. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act identifies several activities as "financial in nature," including insurance underwriting and sales, investment advisory services, merchant banking and underwriting, and dealing or making a market in securities. American National Bankshares Inc. has not elected to become a financial holding company, and has no plans to become a financial holding company. 

American National Bank and Trust Company 

American National Bank and Trust Company is a federally chartered national bank and is a member of the Federal Reserve System. It is subject to federal regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"), the FRB, and the FDIC. 

Depository institutions, including the Bank, are subject to extensive federal and state regulations that significantly affect their business and activities. Regulatory bodies have broad authority to implement standards and initiate proceedings designed to prohibit depository institutions from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure, and capital. The bank regulatory agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 

As with other financial institutions, the earnings of the Bank are affected by general economic conditions and by the monetary policies of the FRB. The FRB exerts a substantial influence on interest rates and credit conditions, primarily through open market operations in U.S. Government securities, setting the reserve requirements of member banks, and establishing the discount rate on member bank borrowings. The policies of the FRB have a direct impact on loan and deposit growth and the interest rates charged and paid thereon. They also impact the source, cost of funds, and the rates of return on investments. Changes in the FRB's monetary policies have had a significant impact on the operating results of the Bank and other financial institutions and are expected to continue to do so in the future; however, the exact impact of such conditions and policies upon the future business and earnings cannot accurately be predicted. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). The Dodd-Frank Act significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States and has a broad impact on the financial services industry as a result of the significant regulatory and compliance changes required under the act. While significant rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act has occurred, certain of the act's provisions require additional rulemaking by the federal bank regulatory agencies, a process which will take years to fully implement. The Company believes that short- and long-term compliance costs for the Company will be greater because of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

A summary of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act is set forth below: 

Increased Capital Standards . The federal banking agencies are required to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies. See "Capital Requirements" below. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for newer and stronger standards. 

Deposit Insurance . The Dodd-Frank Act makes permanent the $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act also revise the assessment base against which an insured depository institution's deposit insurance premiums paid to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the "DIF") will be calculated. Under the amendments, the assessment base will no longer be the institution's deposit base, but rather its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity during the assessment period. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act makes changes to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that depository institutions may pay interest on demand deposits. 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") . The CFPB is charged with establishing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. 

Compensation Practices . The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the appropriate federal regulators must establish standards prohibiting as an unsafe and unsound practice any compensation plan of a bank holding company or bank that provides an insider or other employee with "excessive compensation" or could lead to a material financial loss to such firm. In June 2010, prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal bank regulatory agencies promulgated the Interagency Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies , which requires that financial institutions establish metrics for measuring the impact of activities to achieve incentive compensation with the related risk to the financial institution of such behavior. 

Although a significant number of the rules and regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized, certain of the act's requirements have yet to be implemented. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the federal bank regulatory agencies in the future, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on the operations of the Company and the Bank is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may affect the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more 

stringent regulatory requirements or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial condition of the Company and the Bank. These changes may also require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. 

Deposit Insurance 

The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. On April 1, 2011, the deposit insurance assessment base changed from total deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, pursuant to a rule issued by the FDIC as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA"), as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to set a ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits of at least 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank's capital level and supervisory rating. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC introduced three possible adjustments to an institution's initial base assessment rate: (i) a decrease of up to five basis points for long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt (other than debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program) and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (ii) an increase not to exceed 50% of an institution's assessment rate before the increase for secured liabilities in excess of 25% of domestic deposits; and (iii) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase not to exceed 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits. In 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the Company paid only the base assessment rate for "well capitalized" institutions, which totaled $750,000 and $647,000, respectively, in regular deposit insurance assessments. 

In addition, all FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately one basis point of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019. 

Capital Requirements &#160; 

The FRB, the OCC and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to all banks and bank holding companies. In addition, those regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. Under the risk-based capital requirements of these federal bank regulatory agencies that were effective through December 31, 2015 , American National Bankshares Inc. and American National Bank were required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet activities, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, were multiplied by a risk-weight factor assigned by the capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. 

On June 7, 2012, the FRB issued a series of proposed rules intended to revise and strengthen its risk-based and leverage capital requirements and its method for calculating risk-weighted assets. The rules were proposed to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved certain revisions to the proposals and finalized new capital requirements for banking organizations. 

Effective January 1, 2015, the final rules required the Company and the Bank to comply with the following new minimum capital ratios: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% of risk-weighted assets (increased from the prior requirement of 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% of risk-weighted assets (unchanged from the prior requirement); and (iv) a leverage ratio of 4% of total assets (unchanged from the prior requirement). These are the initial capital requirements, which will be phased in over a four-year period. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the rules will require the Company and the Bank to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% "capital conservation buffer" (which is added to the 4.5% common equity Tier 1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation), and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Company were 15.23% and 16.34%, respectively, as of December 31, 2015 , thus exceeding the minimum requirements. The common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of the Company was 12.88% and the Bank was 14.58% as of December 31, 2015 . The Tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted asset ratios of the Bank were 14.58% and 15.67%, respectively, as of December 31, 2015 &#32;also exceeding the minimum requirements. 

The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing by the same amount each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

With respect to the Bank, the rules also revised the "prompt corrective action" regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA by (i) introducing a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum ratio for well-capitalized status being 8.0% (as compared to the prior ratio of 6.0%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3.0% Tier 1 leverage ratio and still be well-capitalized. These new thresholds were effective for the Bank as of January 1, 2015. The minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (10.0%) and minimum leverage ratio (5.0%) for well-capitalized status were unchanged by the final rules. 

The new capital requirements also included changes in the risk weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and nonresidential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status, a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancelable, a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, and increased risk-weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

Based on management's understanding and interpretation of the new capital rules, it believes that, as of December 31, 2015 , the Company and the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements under such rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were in effect as of such date. 

Dividends 

The Company's principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders, is dividends it receives from the Bank. Statutory and regulatory limitations apply to the Bank's payment of dividends to the Company. As a general rule, the amount of a dividend may not exceed, without prior regulatory approval, the sum of net income in the calendar year to date and the retained net earnings of the immediately preceding two calendar years. A depository institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause the institution to become "undercapitalized" or if it already is "undercapitalized." The OCC may prevent the payment of a dividend if it determines that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The OCC also has advised that a national bank should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Permitted Activities 

As a bank holding company, American National Bankshares Inc. is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities that the FRB determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the FRB must consider whether the performance of such an activity reasonably can be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. Possible benefits include greater convenience, increased competition, and gains in efficiency. Possible adverse effects include undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, and unsound banking practices. Despite prior approval, the FRB may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate ownership or control of any subsidiary when the FRB has reasonable cause to believe that a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company may result from such an activity. 

Banking Acquisitions; Changes in Control 

The BHC Act requires, among other things, the prior approval of the FRB in any case where a bank holding company proposes to (i) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank or bank holding company (unless it already owns a majority of such voting shares), (ii) acquire all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, the FRB will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the "CRA") and its compliance with fair housing and other consumer protection laws. 

Subject to certain exceptions, the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with the applicable regulations, require FRB approval (or, depending on the circumstances, no notice of disapproval) prior to any person or company acquiring "control" of a bank or bank holding company. A conclusive presumption of control exists if an individual or company acquires the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of an insured depository institution or to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of any insured depository institution. A rebuttable presumption of control exists if a person or company acquires 10% or more but less than 25% of any class of voting securities of an insured depository institution and either the institution has registered its securities with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or no other person will own a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the acquisition. The Company's common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 

In addition, Virginia law requires the prior approval of the SCC for (i) the acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of a Virginia bank or any holding company that controls a Virginia bank, or (ii) the acquisition by a Virginia bank holding company of a bank or its holding company domiciled outside Virginia. 

Source of Strength 

FRB policy has historically required bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Under this requirement, the Company is expected to commit resources to support the Bank, including at times when the Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness 

There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and the FDIC insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. For example, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, to avoid receivership of an insured depository institution subsidiary, a bank holding company is required to guarantee the compliance of any subsidiary bank that may become "undercapitalized" with the terms of any capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal bank regulatory agency up to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the institution's total assets at the time the institution became undercapitalized or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with such capital restoration plan. 

Under the FDIA, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA"), the federal bank regulatory agencies possess broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution is "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," or "critically undercapitalized," as defined by the law. 

Reflecting changes under the new Basel III capital requirements, the relevant capital measures that became effective on January 1, 2015 for prompt corrective action are the total capital ratio, the common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the Tier 1 capital ratio and the leverage ratio. A bank will be (i) "well capitalized" if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any capital directive order; (ii) "adequately capitalized" if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not "well capitalized"; (iii) "undercapitalized" if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio less than 4.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%; (iv) "significantly undercapitalized" if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio less than 3.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%; and (v) "critically undercapitalized" if the institution's tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. A bank's capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank's overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. Management believes, as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the Company met the requirements for being classified as "well capitalized." 

As required by FDICIA, the federal bank regulatory agencies also have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to, among other things, internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, and interest rate exposure. In general, the guidelines require appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. In addition, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an institution which has been notified that it is not in compliance with safety and soundness standard to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the prompt corrective action provisions described above. 

Branching 

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended (the "Interstate Banking Act"), generally permits well capitalized bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state, and preempts all state laws restricting the ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one state. The Interstate Banking Act also permits a bank to merge with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank if both states have not opted out of interstate branching; and permits a bank to acquire branches from an out-of-state bank if the law of the state where the branches are located permits the interstate branch acquisition. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company or bank must be well capitalized and well managed to engage in an interstate acquisition. Bank holding companies and banks are required to obtain prior FRB approval to acquire more than 5% of a class of voting securities, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. The Interstate Banking Act and the Dodd-Frank Act permit banks to establish and operate de novo interstate branches to the same extent a bank chartered by the host state may establish branches. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, the authority of the Bank to engage in transactions with related parties or "affiliates" or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between the Bank and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, the Bank generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

Loans to executive officers, directors or to any person who directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls or has the power to vote more than 10% of any class of voting securities of a bank (a "10% Shareholders"), are subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and their corresponding regulations (Regulation O) and Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act relating to the prohibition on personal loans to executives (which exempts financial institutions in compliance with the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act). Among other things, these loans must be made on terms substantially the same as those prevailing on transactions made to unaffiliated individuals and certain extensions of credit to those persons must first be approved in advance by a disinterested majority of the entire board of directors. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act prohibits loans to any of those individuals where the aggregate amount exceeds an amount equal to 15% of an institution's unimpaired capital and surplus plus an 

additional 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral, or when the aggregate amount on all of the extensions of credit outstanding to all of these persons would exceed the Bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act identifies limited circumstances in which the Bank is permitted to extend credit to executive officers. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws that extensively govern its relationship with its customers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, laws governing flood insurance, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices, foreclosure laws ,and various regulations that implement some or all of the foregoing. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. If the Company fails to comply with these laws and regulations, it may be subject to various penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also result in failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for merger or acquisition transactions the Company may wish to pursue or being prohibited from engaging in such transactions even if approval is not required. 

The Dodd-Frank Act centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the CFPB, and giving it responsibility for implementing, examining, and enforcing compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB focuses on (i) risks to consumers and compliance with the federal consumer financial laws, (ii) the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets, (iii) depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services, and (iv) non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services. The CFPB has broad rule making authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks, including, among other things, the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. Abusive acts or practices are defined as those that materially interfere with a consumer's ability to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service or take unreasonable advantage of a consumer's (i) lack of financial savvy, (ii) inability to protect himself in the selection or use of consumer financial products or services, or (iii) reasonable reliance on a covered entity to act in the consumer's interests. The CFPB can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB may also institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial law in order to impose a civil penalty or injunction. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires the appropriate federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. Furthermore, such assessment is also required of banks that have applied, among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch. In the case of a BHC applying for approval to acquire a bank or BHC, the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant BHC is subject to assessment in considering the application. Under the CRA, institutions are assigned a rating of "outstanding," "satisfactory," "needs to improve," or "substantial non-compliance." The Company was rated "satisfactory" in its most recent CRA evaluation. 

Anti-Money Laundering Legislation 

The Company is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act of 2001. Among other things, these laws and regulations require the Company to take steps to prevent the use of the Company for facilitating the flow of illegal or illicit money, to report large currency transactions, and to file suspicious activity reports. The Company is also required to carry out a comprehensive anti-money laundering compliance program. Violations can result in substantial civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act require the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

Privacy Legislation 

Several recent laws, including the Right to Financial Privacy Act, and related regulations issued by the federal bank regulatory agencies, also provide new protections against the transfer and use of customer information by financial institutions. A financial institution must provide to its customers information regarding its policies and procedures with respect to the handling of customers' personal information. Each institution must conduct an internal risk assessment of its ability to protect customer information. These privacy provisions generally prohibit a financial institution from providing a customer's personal financial information to unaffiliated parties without prior notice and approval from the customer . 

Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of financial institutions do not undermine the safety and soundness of such institutions by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Interagency Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies , which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of a financial institutions, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a financial institution's incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the institution's ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the financial institution's board of directors. 

The FRB will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions, such as the Company, that are not "large, complex banking organizations." These reviews will be tailored to each financial institution based on the scope and complexity of the institution's activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution's supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution's ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a financial institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the institution's safety and soundness and the financial institution is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. At December 31, 2015 , the Company had not been made aware of any instances of non-compliance with the final guidance. 

Volcker Rule 

The Volcker Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule, which became effective in July 2015, does not significantly impact the operations of the Company or the Bank, as they do not have any significant engagement in the businesses prohibited by the Volcker Rule. 

Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule on January 10, 2013 (effective on January 10, 2014), amending Regulation Z as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers' ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (i) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (ii) current employment status; (iii) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (iv) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (v) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (vi) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (vii) the monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and (viii) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate "qualified mortgages," which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, a "qualified mortgage" is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. Qualified mortgages that are "higher-priced" (e.g. subprime loans) garner a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay rules, while qualified mortgages that are not "higher-priced" (e.g. prime loans) are given a safe harbor of compliance. The Company is predominantly an originator of compliant qualified mortgages. 

Cybersecurity 

In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution&#8217;s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution&#8217;s operations after a cyber-attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber-attack. If the Company fails to observe the regulatory guidance, it could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. 

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies 

The Company's operations are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the policies of various regulatory authorities. In particular, the FRB regulates money and credit conditions and interest rates to influence general economic conditions. These policies have a significant impact on overall growth and distribution of loans, investments and deposits; they affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for time and savings deposits. FRB monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks, including the Company, in the past and are expected to do so in the future. As a result, it is difficult for the Company to predict the potential effects of possible changes in monetary policies upon its future operating results. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , the Company employed 303 full-time equivalent persons. In the opinion of the management of the Company, the relationship with employees of the Company and the Bank is good. 

Internet Access to Company Documents 

The Company provides access to its Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") filings through a link on the Investor Relations page of the Company's website at www.amnb.com. Reports available include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed electronically with the SEC. The information on the Company's website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other filing the Company makes with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

Executive Officers of the Company 

The following table lists, as of December 31, 2015 , the executive officers of the Company, their ages, and their positions: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

Jeffrey V. Haley 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Bank since January 2013; prior thereto, President of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank since January 2012; prior thereto, Executive Vice President of the Company from June 2010 to December 2011; prior thereto, Senior Vice President of the Company from July 2008 to May 2010; President of the Bank since June 2010; prior thereto, Executive Vice President of the Bank, as well as President of Trust and Financial Services from July 2008 to May 2010; prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bank from November 2005 to June 2007. &#160; 

William W. Traynham 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of the Company since January 2015. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Cashier of the Bank since April 2009. 

H. Gregg Strader 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Banking Officer of the Company since January 2015. Executive Vice President and Chief Banking Officer of the Bank since January 2014. Executive Vice President of the Bank from June 2013 until December 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of IBERIABANK Corporation from 2010 to June 2013. 

R. Helm Dobbins 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of the Company since January 2015. Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of the Bank since 2005. 

Dabney T.P. Gilliam, Jr. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company since January 2015. Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Bank since 2008. 

