 Item 1. Business 

Company Overview 

The Andersons, Inc. (the "Company") is a diversified company rooted in agriculture. Founded in Maumee, Ohio in 1947, the Company conducts business across North America in the grain, ethanol, plant nutrient and rail sectors. The Company also produces turf and cob products and has a consumer retailing presence. 

Segment Descriptions 

The Company's operations are classified into five reportable business segments: Grain, Ethanol, Rail, Plant Nutrient, and Retail. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding business segments. 

Grain Group 

The Grain business primarily operates grain elevators in various states in the U.S. Corn Belt. Income is earned on grain bought and sold or &#8220;put thru&#8221; the elevator, grain that is purchased and conditioned for resale, and space income. Space income consists of appreciation or depreciation in the basis value of grain held and represents the difference between the cash price of a commodity in one of the Company's facilities and an exchange traded futures price (&#8220;basis&#8221;); appreciation or depreciation between the future exchange contract months (&#8220;spread&#8221;); and grain stored for others upon which storage fees are earned. The Grain business also offers a number of unique grain marketing, risk management and corn origination services to its customers and affiliated ethanol facilities for which it collects fees. 

The Company has a lease and marketing agreement with Cargill, Incorporated (&#8220;Cargill&#8221;) for Cargill's Maumee and Toledo, Ohio grain handling and storage facilities. As part of the agreement, Cargill is given the marketing rights to grain in the Cargill-owned facilities as well as the adjacent Company-owned facilities in Maumee and Toledo. The lease of the Cargill-owned facilities covers approximately 5%, or 8.9 million bushels, of the Company's total storage space. 

Grain prices are not predetermined, so sales are negotiated by the Company's merchandising staff. The principal grains sold by the Company are corn, soybeans and wheat. Approximately 92% of grain sales by the Company in 2015 were purchased by U.S. grain processors and feeders, and approximately 8% were exported. Most of the Company's exported grain sales are done through intermediaries while some grain is shipped directly to foreign countries, mainly Canada. Most grain shipments from our facilities are by rail or boat. Rail shipments are made primarily to grain processors and feeders with some rail shipments made to exporters on the Gulf of Mexico or east coast. Boat shipments are from the Port of Toledo. In addition, grain is transported via truck for direct ship transactions where producers sell grain to the Company but have it delivered directly to the end user. 

The Company's grain operations rely principally on forward purchase contracts with producers, dealers and commercial elevators to ensure an adequate supply of grain to the Company's facilities throughout the year. The Company makes grain purchases at prices referenced to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (&#8220;the CME&#8221;). 

The Company competes in the sale of grain with other public and private grain brokers, elevator operators and farmer owned cooperative elevators. Some of the Company's competitors are also its customers. Competition is based primarily on price, service and reliability. Because the Company generally buys in smaller lots, its competition for the purchase of grain is generally local or regional in scope, although there are some large national and international companies that maintain regional grain purchase and storage facilities. Significant portions of grain bushels purchased and sold are done so using forward contracts. 

The grain handling business is seasonal in nature in that the largest portion of the principal grains are harvested and delivered from the farm and commercial elevators in July, October and November although a significant portion of the principal grains are bought, sold and handled throughout the year. 

Fixed price purchase and sale commitments as well as grain held in inventory expose the Company to risks related to adverse changes in market prices. The Company attempts to manage these risks by entering into exchange-traded futures and option contracts with the CME. The contracts are economic hedges of price risk, but are not designated or accounted for as hedging 

instruments. The CME is a regulated commodity futures exchange that maintains futures markets for the grains merchandised by the Company. Futures prices are determined by worldwide supply and demand. 

The Company's grain risk management practices are designed to reduce the risk of changing commodity prices. In that regard, such practices also limit potential gains from further changes in market prices. The Company has policies that provide key controls over its risk management practices. These policies include a description of the objectives of the programs and review of position limits by key management outside of the trading function on a daily basis along with other internal controls. The Company monitors current market conditions and may expand or reduce the purchasing program in response to changes in those conditions. In addition, the Company monitors its counterparties on a regular basis for credit worthiness, defaults and non-delivery. 

Purchases of grain can be made the day the grain is delivered to a terminal or via a forward contract made prior to actual delivery. Sales of grain generally are made by contract for delivery in a future period. When the Company purchases grain at a fixed price or at a price where a component of the purchase price is fixed via reference to a futures price on the CME, it also enters into an offsetting sale of a futures contract on the CME. Similarly, when the Company sells grain at a fixed price, the sale is offset with the purchase of a futures contract on the CME. At the close of business each day, inventory and open purchase and sale contracts as well as open futures and option positions are marked-to-market. Gains and losses in the value of the Company's ownership positions due to changing market prices are netted with, and generally offset in the income statement by, losses and gains in the value of the Company's futures positions. 

When a futures contract is entered into, an initial margin deposit must be sent to the CME. The amount of the margin deposit is set by the CME and varies by commodity. If the market price of a futures contract moves in a direction that is adverse to the Company's position, an additional margin deposit, called a maintenance margin, is required by the CME. Subsequent price changes could require additional maintenance margin deposits or result in the return of maintenance margin deposits by the CME. Significant increases in market prices, such as those that occur when grain supplies are affected by unfavorable weather conditions and/or when increases in demand occur, can have an effect on the Company's liquidity and, as a result, require it to maintain appropriate short-term lines of credit. The Company may utilize CME option contracts to limit its exposure to potential required margin deposits in the event of a rapidly rising market. 

The Company owns 31.9% &#32;of the equity in Lansing Trade Group LLC (&#8220;LTG&#8221;). LTG is largely focused on the movement of physical commodities, including grain and ethanol and is exposed to some of the same risks as the Company's grain and ethanol businesses. LTG also trades in commodities that the Company's grain and ethanol businesses do not trade in, some of which are not exchange traded. This investment provides the Company with further opportunity to diversify and complement its income through activity outside of its traditional product and geographic regions. This investment is accounted for under the equity method. The Company, along with LTG, also established joint ventures and purchased a grain and food-bean handler and agronomy input provider with 12 locations across Ontario, Canada and Minnesota. These investments are accounted for under the equity method. The Company periodically enters into transactions with these joint ventures as disclosed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Ethanol Group 

The Ethanol Group has ownership interests in four Limited Liability Companies (&#8220;the ethanol LLCs&#8221; or &#8220;LLCs&#8221;). Each of the LLCs owns an ethanol plant that is operated by the Company's Ethanol Group. The plants are located in Iowa, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio and have combined nameplate capacity of 330 million gallons of ethanol. The Group purchases and sells ethanol, offers facility operations, risk management, and ethanol and corn oil marketing services to the ethanol plants it invests in and operates. 

The Company holds an 85% interest in The Andersons Denison Ethanol LLC ("TADE"), which is a consolidated entity that was acquired on May 1, 2012. The Company holds a 53% &#32;interest in The Andersons Albion Ethanol LLC (&#8220;TAAE&#8221;) and a 38% &#32;interest in The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC (&#8220;TACE&#8221;). The Company holds a 50% &#32;interest in The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC (&#8220;TAME&#8221;) through its majority owned subsidiary The Andersons Ethanol Investment LLC (&#8220;TAEI&#8221;). A third party owns 34% of TAEI. All operating ethanol LLC investments, except TADE, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. 

The Company has a management agreement with each of the LLCs. As part of these agreements, the Ethanol Group runs the day-to-day operations of the plants and provides all administrative functions. The Company is compensated for these services based on a fixed cost plus an indexed annual increase determined by a consumer price index and is accounted for on a gross basis. Additionally, the Company has entered into agreements with each of the unconsolidated LLCs under which it has the exclusive right to act as supplier for 100% of the corn used by the LLCs in the production of ethanol. For this service, the 

Company receives a fee for each bushel of corn sold. The Company has entered into marketing agreements with each of the ethanol LLCs. Under the ethanol marketing agreements, the Company purchases 100% of the ethanol produced by TAAE, TACE and TADE and 50% of the ethanol produced by TAME at the same price it will resell the ethanol to external customers. The Ethanol Group receives a fee for each gallon of ethanol sold to external customers sourced from these LLCs. Under the distillers dried grains ("DDG") and corn oil marketing agreements, the Company markets the DDG and corn oil and receives a fee on units sold. 

Plant Nutrient Group 

The Plant Nutrient Group is a leading manufacturer, distributor and retailer of agricultural and related plant nutrients, corncob-based products, and pelleted lime and gypsum products in the U.S. Corn Belt, Florida and Puerto Rico. The Group provides warehousing, packaging and manufacturing services to basic nutrient producers and other distributors. The Group also manufactures and distributes a variety of industrial products throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico including nitrogen reagents for air pollution control systems used in coal-fired power plants, and water treatment and dust abatement products. 

In its plant nutrient businesses, the Company competes with regional and local cooperatives, wholesalers and retailers, predominantly publicly owned manufacturers and privately owned retailers, wholesalers and importers. Some of these competitors are also suppliers and have considerably larger resources than the Company. Competition in the nutrient business is based largely on depth of product offering, price, location and service. Sales and warehouse shipments of agricultural nutrients are heaviest in the spring and fall. 

Wholesale Nutrients &#32;- The Wholesale Nutrients business manufactures, stores, and distributes dry and liquid agricultural nutrients, and pelleted lime and gypsum products annually. The major nutrient products sold by the business principally contain nitrogen, phosphate, potassium and sulfur. 

Farm Centers &#32;- The Farm Centers offer a variety of essential crop nutrients, crop protection chemicals and seed products in addition to application and agronomic services to commercial and family farmers. Soil and tissue sampling along with global satellite assisted services provide for pinpointing crop or soil deficiencies and prescriptive agronomic advice is provided to farmers. 

Cob Products &#32; - Corncob-based products are manufactured for a variety of uses including laboratory animal bedding and private-label cat litter, as well as absorbents, blast cleaners, carriers and polishers. The products are distributed throughout the United States and Canada and into Europe and Asia. The principal sources for corncobs are seed corn producers. 

Turf Products &#32;- Proprietary professional turf care products are produced for the golf course and professional turf care markets, serving both U.S. and international customers. These products are sold both directly and through distributors to golf courses and lawn service applicators. The Company also produces and sells fertilizer and control products for &#8220;do-it-yourself&#8221; application, to mass merchandisers, small independent retailers and other lawn fertilizer manufacturers and performs contract manufacturing of fertilizer and control products. 

Rail Group 

The Company's Rail Group leases, repairs, and sells various types of railcars, locomotives and barges. In addition, the Rail Group offers fleet management services to private railcar owners. The Rail Group is also an investor in the short-line railroad, Iowa Northern Railway Company (&#8220;IANR&#8221;). 

The Company has a diversified fleet of car types (boxcars, gondolas, covered and open top hopper cars, tank cars and pressure differential cars), locomotives and barges serving a broad customer base. The Company operates in both the new and used car markets, allowing the Company to diversify its fleet both in terms of car types, industries and age of cars, as well as repairing and refurbishing used cars for specific markets and customers. 

A significant portion of the railcars, locomotives and barges managed by the Company are included on the balance sheet as long-lived assets. The others are either in off-balance sheet operating leases (with the Company leasing assets from financial intermediaries and leasing those same assets to the end-users) or non-recourse arrangements (in which the Company is not subject to any lease arrangement related to the assets, but provides management services to the owner of the assets). The Company generally holds purchase options on most assets owned by financial intermediaries. We are under contract to provide maintenance services for many of the Rail Group assets that we own or manage. Refer to the Off-Balance Sheet Transactions section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for a breakdown of our railcar, locomotive and barge positions at December 31, 2015. 

In the case of our off-balance sheet Rail Group assets, the Company's risk management philosophy is to match-fund the lease commitments where possible. Match-funding (in relation to lease transactions) means matching the terms of the financial intermediary funding arrangement with the lease terms of the customer where the Company is both lessee and sublessor. If the Company is unable to match-fund, it will attempt to get an early buyout provision within the funding arrangement to match the underlying customer lease. The Company does not attempt to match-fund lease commitments for Rail Group assets that are on our balance sheet. 

Competition for marketing and fleet maintenance services is based primarily on price, service ability, and access to both used equipment and third-party financing. Repair facility competition is based primarily on price, quality and location. 

Retail Group 

The Company's Retail Group includes large retail stores operated as &#8220;The Andersons,&#8221; which are located in the Columbus and Toledo, Ohio markets. The retail concept is A Store Like No Other &#32;and the stores focus on providing significant product breadth with offerings in home improvement and other mass merchandise categories as well as specialty foods, wine and indoor and outdoor garden centers. Each store has 100,000 square feet or more of in-store display space plus 40,000 or more square feet of outdoor garden center space, and features do-it-yourself clinics, special promotions and varying merchandise displays. The Company also operates a specialty food store operated as &#8220;The Andersons Market&#8221;&#8482; located in the Toledo, Ohio market area. The specialty food store concept has product offerings with a strong emphasis on &#8220;freshness&#8221; that features produce, deli and bakery items, fresh meats, specialty and conventional dry goods and wine. The majority of the Company's non-perishable merchandise is received at a distribution center located in Maumee, Ohio. The Company also operates a sales and service facility for outdoor power equipment near one of its retail stores. 

The retail merchandising business is highly competitive. The Company competes with a variety of retail merchandisers, including grocery stores, home centers, department and hardware stores. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and purchasing power than the Company. The principal competitive factors are location, quality of product, price, service, reputation and breadth of selection. The Company's retail business is affected by seasonal factors with significant sales occurring in the spring and during the holiday season. 

Employees 

The Andersons offers a broad range of full-time and part-time career opportunities. Each position in the Company is important to our success, and we recognize the worth and dignity of every individual. We strive to treat each person with respect and utilize his or her unique talents. At December 31, 2015, the Company had 2,464 full-time and 979 part-time or seasonal employees. 

Government Regulation 

Grain sold by the Company must conform to official grade standards imposed under a federal system of grain grading and inspection administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (&#8220;USDA&#8221;). 

The production levels, markets and prices of the grains that the Company merchandises are affected by United States government programs, which include acreage control and price support programs of the USDA. In regards to our investments in ethanol production facilities, the U.S. government has mandated a ten percent blend for motor fuel gasoline sold. 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) has developed bioterrorism prevention regulations for food facilities, which require that we register our grain operations with the FDA, provide prior notice of any imports of food or other agricultural commodities coming into the United States and maintain records to be made available upon request that identifies the immediate previous sources and immediate subsequent recipients of our grain commodities. 

The Company, like other companies engaged in similar businesses, is subject to a multitude of federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations including, but not limited to, laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, pesticides and hazardous materials. The provisions of these various regulations could require modifications of certain of the Company's existing facilities and could restrict the expansion of future facilities or significantly increase the cost of their operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations did not materially affect our earnings or competitive position in 2015. 

In addition, the Company continues to assess the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and has concluded that the Company is not a major swap dealer or major swap participant. New federal regulations, studies and reports addressing all of the major areas of the new law, including the regulation of swaps and derivatives, are in the process of being finalized and adopted and we will continue to monitor these developments. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our Company website soon after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Company website is http://www.andersonsinc.com. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These reports are also available at the SEC's website: http://www.sec.gov . 

