 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Andrea Electronics Corporation (&#147;Andrea,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;our&#148;) designs, develops and manufactures state-of-the-art digital microphone products and noise reduction software that facilitate natural language, human/machine interfaces. Our technologies eliminate unwanted background noise to enable the optimum performance of various speech-based and audio applications. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of New York and have been engaged in the electronic communications industry since 1934. 

Andrea&#146;s products and technologies optimize the performance of speech-based applications and audio applications primarily in the following markets: 

&#9679; computer speech recognition applications; &#160; &#9679; computer voice over the internet protocol (&#147;VoIP&#148;) applications; and &#160; &#9679; OEM microphone components and assemblies. Andrea Digital Signal Processing (&#147;DSP&#148;) Microphone and Audio Software Business &#150; Our patented and patent-pending digital noise canceling technologies enable a speaker to be at a distance from the microphone (we refer to this capability as &#147;far-field&#148; microphone use), and free the speaker from having to use a close talking microphone. Our Digital Super Directional Array (&#147;DSDA&#148;) and PureAudio microphone products convert sound received by an array of microphones into digital signals that are then processed to cancel background noise from the signal to be transmitted. These two adaptive technologies represent the core technologies within our portfolio of far-field technologies. In addition to DSDA and PureAudio, Andrea has developed and commercialized several other digital, far-field noise canceling technologies, including, among others, Andrea EchoStop, a high-quality acoustic echo canceller which enables speaker phone functionality with technology for canceling speaker feedback. 

All of our digital, far-field microphone technologies are software-based and operate using either a dedicated DSP or a general purpose processor (for example, the Intel Pentium). The software, which may encompass one or all of our far-field noise canceling technologies, can be applied to improve the performance of a single microphone or multiple microphones. In addition, our digital, far-field, noise canceling technologies can be tailored and implemented into various form factors, including for example, into the monitor of a PC, a cloud-based digital assistant or a rear view mirror, and can be used individually or combined depending on particular customer requirements. 

We are currently targeting our far-field technologies at: 1) the desktop and laptop computing market; 2) the video and audio conferencing market; and 3) the market for personal hands free communication designed for use in automobiles, trucks and buses to control PCs and cellular communication and OEM voice input applications. Our far-field, digital noise canceling technologies and related products, together with implementations of other high-end audio technologies (for example, our software noise cancellation technology) comprise our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software line of business. Net revenues from such technologies and products during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 10% and 100%, respectively, of our total revenues. We dedicate a significant amount of our marketing and research and development resources to this business segment, as we believe that communication products will increasingly require high performance, untethered (hands-free and headset-free) microphone technology. 

Patent Monetization, Intellectual Property and Licensing &#150; Our products and technologies are developed in part using our proprietary intellectual property, and we believe that the strength of our intellectual property rights will be important to the success of our business. We utilize patent and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements with customers and partners, disclosure and invention assignment agreements with employees and consultants and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information. We plan to license specific, custom designs to our customers, charging royalties at a fixed amount per product or a percentage of sales. More generally, we intend to vigorously defend and monetize our intellectual property through licensing arrangements and, where necessary, enforcement actions against those entities using our patented solutions in their products. Royalties resulting from these patent monetization efforts can be structured in a variety of ways, including but not limited to one-time paid up licenses or on-going royalty arrangements. We expect to generate a portion of our revenues with these types of licensing arrangements. As part of our plan to aggressively pursue patent monetization, we entered into a Revenue Sharing and Note Purchase Agreement with AND34 Funding LLC (&#147;AND34&#148;), and on December 24, 2014, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Revenue Sharing and Note Purchase Agreement (the &#147;Revenue Sharing Agreement&#148;) with AND34, which was retroactively effective as of February 14, 2014. Under the Revenue Sharing and Note Purchase Agreement, the Company granted AND34 a perpetual predetermined share in the rights of the Company&#146;s specified future revenues from currently owned patents by the Company in exchange for $3,500,000. Under the Revenue Sharing Agreement, the Company agreed to issue and sell to AND34 an additional $6,500,000 in notes for an aggregate of $10,700,000 in notes. The proceeds of the notes will be used to pay preclose expenses and our patent monetization expenses. Total revenues from this segment during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 91% and 0%, respectively, of our total revenues. 

For more financial information regarding our operating segments, see Note 13 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Industry Background 

Our primary mission is to provide the emerging &#147;voice interface&#148; markets with state-of-the-art microphone and communication products. The idea underlying these markets is that natural language spoken by the human voice will become an important means by which to communicate and control many types of computing devices and other appliances and equipment that contain microprocessors. We are designing and marketing our products and technologies to be used for these &#147;natural language, human/machine&#148; interfaces with: 

&#9679; desktop, laptop and hand-held computers, mobile personal computing devices and cellular phones; &#160; 

&#9679; video and audio conferencing systems; and &#160; 

&#9679; automotive communication systems. 

We believe that end users of these applications and interfaces will require high quality microphone and speakerphone products that enhance voice transmission, particularly in noisy office and mobile environments. We also believe that these applications will increasingly require microphones that are located at a distance from the person speaking, or far-field microphone technology. Applications in this area include: 

&#9679; continuous speech dictation to personal computers; &#160; 

&#9679; multiparty video teleconferencing and software that allow participants to see and jointly communicate; and &#160; 

&#9679; cellular hands free interfaces for automobiles, home and office automation. 

We believe that an increasing number of these devices will be introduced into the marketplace during the next several years. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to: 

&#9679; maintain and extend our market position with our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software technologies and products; &#160; 

&#9679; develop relationships with companies that have significant distribution capabilities for our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software technologies and products; &#160; 

&#9679; broaden our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software product lines through a healthy level of internal research and development; &#160; 

&#9679; design our products to satisfy specific end-user requirements identified by our collaborative partners; &#160; 

&#9679; outsource manufacturing of our products in order to reduce fixed overhead and achieve economies of scale; and &#160; 

&#9679; vigorously defend and monetize our intellectual property through licensing arrangements and, where necessary, enforcement actions against those entities using our patented solutions in their products. 

An important element of our strategy for expanding the channels of distribution and broadening the base of users for our products is our collaborative arrangements with manufacturers of computing and communications equipment and software publishers that are actively engaged in the various markets in which our products have application. In addition, we have been increasing our own direct marketing efforts to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into, or for use with their products. 

The success of our strategy will depend on our ability to, among other things: 

&#9679; increase total revenues of Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products; &#160; 

&#9679; continue to contain costs; &#160; 

&#9679; introduce additional Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products; &#160; 

&#9679; maintain the competitiveness of our technologies through focused and targeted research and development; &#160; 

&#9679; achieve widespread adoption of our products and technologies through ongoing marketing efforts; and &#160; 

&#9679; defend and monetize our intellectual property. 

Our Technologies 

We design our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software to transmit voice signals with the high level of quality, intelligibility and reliability required by the broad range of voice-based applications in computing and telecommunications. We achieve this through the use of several audio technologies that employ software processes that are proprietary to us. Software processes of this type are commonly referred to as algorithms. 

Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Technology 

This set of technologies is generally based on the use of an array of microphones from which the analog signals are converted to digital form and then processed using digital electronic circuitry to eliminate unwanted noise in the speaker&#146;s environment. Our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products provide clear acoustic and audio input performance where the desired audio signal is at a distance from the microphone. An example of this is a person using a notebook computer with embedded web cam and array microphone who wants to video conference using VoIP with a friend in another country. We have also engineered our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products to be compatible with Universal Serial Bus, or USB, computer architecture. USB is an industry standard for connecting peripherals, such as microphones, earphones, headsets, keyboards, mice, joysticks, scanners and printers, to personal computers. We believe that our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software technology achieve far-field microphone performance previously unattainable through microphones based on mechanical acoustic designs and microphones based on analog signal processing. 

Our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products include the use of the following technologies, among other technologies and techniques: 

Digital Super Directional Array (&#147;DSDA&#148; &#174; ) . Andrea&#146;s patented DSDA adaptive beam forming system powers Andrea&#146;s SuperBeam microphone which enables more intelligible audio by forming a beam toward the speaker and eliminating background noises that are outside of the beam. DSDA microphone technology enables high quality far-field communications by centering microphone sensitivity on a user&#146;s voice and canceling noise outside of that signal. DSDA continuously samples the ever changing acoustic properties within an environment and adaptively identifies interfering noises that are extraneous to the voice signal, resulting in increased intelligibility of communications. 

PureAudio &#174; . Andrea&#146;s patented PureAudio and award winning noise reduction speech enhancement algorithm significantly improves intelligibility of voice audio and accuracy in speech driven applications, particularly in high noise environments. PureAudio is especially effective for use with speech recognition and mobile devices. PureAudio is a noise canceling algorithm that enhances applications that are controlled by speech by sampling the ambient noise in an environment and attenuating the noise from sources near or around the desired speech signals, thus delivering a clear audio signal. Designed specifically to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, PureAudio is effective in canceling stationary noises such as computer and ventilation fans, tires and engines. 

EchoStop &#174; . Andrea&#146;s patented EchoStop provides a full duplex acoustic echo cancellation algorithm enabling both loudspeakers to broadcast and microphone to transmit simultaneously turning your PC into a high quality speakerphone. EchoStop is an advanced acoustic echo canceller (stereo version available) developed for use with conferencing systems such as group audio and videoconferencing systems and cellular car phone kits. EchoStop allows true two-way communication (often referred to as full duplex) over a conferencing system, even when the system is used in large spatial environments that may be vulnerable to extensive reverberation. EchoStop incorporates noise reduction algorithms to reduce the background noise of both the microphone input and the loudspeaker output, thus preventing the accumulation of interfering noise over conferencing systems that facilitate communication among multiple sites. 

SuperBeam &#174; . SuperBeam is a highly accurate digital algorithm that forms an acoustic beam that extends from the microphone to the speech source in an environment. We believe SuperBeam provides a fixed noise reduction microphone solution for the typical acoustic environment found in room environments in which speech is used, such as in offices and homes. The microphone beam is generated by processing multiple microphone samples through pre-established digital filters and adding the outputs. The result is an optimum speech enhancement and noise reduction solution to a predefined setting. Because the beam is able to adapt to changes in the acoustic environment, this technology is called adaptive beamforming. 

Our Products and their Markets and Applications 

Our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products have been designed for applications that are controlled by or depend on speech across a broad range of hardware and software platforms. These products incorporate our DSP microphone technologies, and are designed to cancel background noise in a range of noisy environments, such as homes, offices, factories and automobiles. We also manufacture a line of accessories for these products. For commercial markets, we have designed our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products for the following applications: 

&#9679; Speech recognition for word processing, database, and similar applications; &#160; 

&#9679; Audio/videoconferencing; &#160; 

&#9679; Internet telephony and Voice Chat; &#160; 

&#9679; Cellular and other wireless telecommunications; and &#160; 

&#9679; Telematics, or in-vehicle computing (the use of computer-controlled systems in automobiles and trucks). 

We market and sell our products directly to end users through our website, computer product distributors, through value-added resellers, to original equipment manufacturers and to software publishers. For more information about these collaborative arrangements, please refer to the information under the caption &#147;Our Collaborative Arrangements.&#148; 

Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products 

We develop our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products primarily through customer-specific integration efforts, and we either license our related algorithms, sell a product incorporating our related algorithms, or both. For example, we have developed technologies that can be, or are, embedded into a PC, PC monitors, high-end videoconferencing units, IP telephony applications, automotive interiors and hand-held devices, among others. In addition, we have developed stand-alone products for specific customers who then sell such products to end users. As a result, such products are not available from us directly. However, as part of our strategy to increase sales to prospective customers desiring high-quality microphone performance for certain customer-specific environments, we have developed the following products that may be purchased directly from Andrea: 

Andrea SuperBeam Array Microphone . Andrea&#146;s patented DSDA adaptive beam forming system powers Andrea&#146;s SuperBeam Array Microphone which enables more intelligible audio by forming a beam toward the speaker and eliminating background noises that are outside of the beam. DSDA is particularly effective for small office/home office use, providing an untethered noise cancelling microphone experience. 

Andrea USB-SA External Digital Sound Card. Andrea&#146;s PureAudio USB-SA with patented noise reduction technology eliminates noise problems by utilizing high quality digital circuitry and state of the art noise reduction algorithm software. This format bypasses the desktop or laptop computer&#146;s sound system, providing increased intelligibility and performance of stereo microphone input and stereo speaker output for all of a user&#146;s digital audio applications including VoIP and speech recognition programs. 

Andrea AudioCommander&#153;. Andrea&#146;s PC Audio Control Panel, AudioCommander, includes a speaker volume adjustment with received PureAudio noise reduction control and a 10-band graphic equalizer with 18 built-in presets to customize sound for a user&#146;s listening preference. It also includes a microphone volume adjustment with noise reduction, beam forming, and acoustic echo cancellation controls. The software also includes an audio wizard that sets microphone levels to optimize PC audio for speech-enabled applications including speech recognition, internet telephony and command and speech control functions. 

Andrea AutoArray&#153; Microphone (&#147;AutoArray&#148;). The AutoArray is a digital, high performance microphone system designed for computing applications in vehicles such as automobiles and trucks. It is the first super-directional audio input device designed specifically for in-vehicle computing. The AutoArray incorporates several technologies, including DSDA and PureAudio. 

Andrea Pureaudio Live Recorder . PureAudio&#153; Live Recorder is a full function digital voice and audio recording application for use with Apple &#153; iOS devices. The PureAudio&#153; Live Recorder is enhanced with Andrea's patented digital noise reduction microphone technology. PureAudio&#153; digitally reduces background noise, while enhancing the recorded sound quality and intelligibility when making recordings in real-world noisy mobile environments. 

Andrea Pureaudio Pro Recorder . In addition to the features offered in PureAudio Live Recorder, PureAudio Pro Recorder offers unlimited bookmarks for easy navigation of large recordings, 10-band graphic equalizer to customize your listening experience, aggressive PureAudio for recording in noisy environments, stereo recording for capturing surround sound recordings and beam forming noise cancellation to reduce sounds coming from the sides. PureAudio Pro Recorder is an easy to use, intuitive stereo recorder for capturing music, recitals, church services or precious family events and offers back ground noise reduction for crystal clear recordings of voice notes, lectures and interviews. With its almost unlimited recording time, you never have to worry about cutting off the end of a lecture or recital. 

Our Collaborative Arrangements 

An important element of our strategy is to promote widespread adoption of our products and technologies by collaborating with large enterprises and market and technology leaders in security systems and services, industrial system integrators, voice activated services, communications, computer manufacturing, and software publishing. In addition to the arrangements we are involved in, we are currently discussing additional arrangements with other companies, but we cannot assure that any of these discussions will result in any definitive agreements. 

Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights 

Our products and technologies are developed in part using our proprietary intellectual property, and we believe that the strength of our intellectual property rights will be important to the success of our business. We utilize patent and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements with customers and partners, disclosure and invention assignment agreements with employees and consultants and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information. We plan to license specific, custom designs to our customers, charging royalties at a fixed amount per product or a percentage of sales. More generally, we intend to vigorously defend and monetize our intellectual property through licensing arrangements and, where necessary, enforcement actions against those entities using our patented solutions in their products. Royalties resulting from these patent monetization efforts can be structured in a variety of ways, including but not limited to one-time paid up licenses or on-going royalty arrangements. We expect to generate a portion of our revenues with these types of licensing arrangements. 

Andrea maintains a number of patents in the United States covering claims to certain of its products and technology, which expire at various dates ranging from 2016 to 2030. We also have other patent applications currently pending; however, we cannot assure that patents will be issued with respect to these currently pending or future applications which we may file, nor can we assure that the strength or scope of our existing patents, or any new patents, will be of sufficient scope or strength or provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. 

Research and Development 

We consider our technology to be of substantial importance to our competitiveness. To maintain this competitiveness, we have organized our research and development efforts using a &#147;market and applications&#148; approach for meeting the requirements of new and existing customers. Consistent with this approach, our engineering staff interacts closely with our sales and marketing personnel and directly with customers. The engineering staff is responsible for the research and development of new products and the improvement and support of existing products. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, total research and development expenses for continuing operations were $767,680 and $487,858, respectively. During 2016, we expect research and development expenses to remain at the same level when compared to 2015. No assurance can be given that our research and development efforts will succeed. See &#147;Part II &#150; Item 7 &#150; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#148; 

Sales and Marketing 

We employ a sales staff as well as outside sales representatives and sales organizations to market our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products. Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products are marketed to computer Original Equipment Manufacturers (&#147;OEMs&#148;), distributors of personal computers and communications equipment, software publishers, and industrial system integrators. Under our existing collaborative agreements, our collaborators have various marketing and sales rights to our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software. We are seeking to enter into additional collaborative arrangements for the marketing and sale of our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products but we cannot assure that we will be successful in these efforts. Market acceptance of the Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products and achievement of patent monetization is critical to our success. 

Production Operations 

In 2015 and 2014, all of our assembly operations were performed with subcontractors in Asia or in the United States. Most of the components for the Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products are available from several sources and are not characteristically in short supply. However, certain specialized components, such as microphones and DSP boards, are available from a limited number of suppliers and subject to long lead times. To date, we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of these more specialized components, but we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to do so. Shortages of, or interruptions in, the supply of these more specialized components could have a material adverse effect on our sales of Andrea DSP Microphone Products. 

Competition 

The markets for our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software Products are highly competitive. Competition in these markets is based on varying combinations of product features, quality and reliability of performance, price, sales, marketing and technical support, ease of use, compatibility with evolving industry standards and other systems and equipment, name recognition, and development of new products and enhancements. Most of our current and potential competitors in these markets have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources than us. Consequently, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, and sale of their products than we can. 

We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend upon our ability to develop and maintain advanced technology, develop proprietary products, attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies and manufacture, assemble and market products, either alone or through third parties, in a profitable manner. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had 11 employees, of whom one was engaged in production and related operations, five were engaged in research and development, and four were engaged in management, administration, sales and customer support duties. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we generally enjoy good relations with our employees. In addition to our regular employees, we utilize five independent consultants (two are sales representatives, one is engaged for administration purposes and two are engaged in research and development activities). 

