 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

Ampco-Pittsburgh Corporation (the &#147;Corporation&#148;) was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. The Corporation, individually or together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is also referred to herein as the &#147;Registrant&#148;. The Corporation classifies its businesses in two segments: Forged and Cast Engineered Products and Air and Liquid Processing. 

ACQUISITIONS 

On July 29, 2015, the Corporation acquired business and assets of Alloys Unlimited &#38; Processing, Inc. (&#147;AUP&#148;), a supplier of specialty tool, alloy, and carbon steel round bar, as well as a provider of precision saw cutting, machining, rough turning and boring, heat treating and trepanning services to customers nationwide. The purchase price was $5 million and was funded by available cash. The business is now part of our Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment. 

On March 3, 2016, the Corporation, through its indirect subsidiary Ampco UES Sub, Inc., completed an acquisition of &#197;kers AB and certain of its affiliated companies (collectively the &#147;&#197;kers Group&#148;) from Altor Fund II GP Limited. The base purchase price paid by the Corporation for the &#197;kers Group was approximately $75 million (subject to certain post-closing adjustments) and was payable $29 million in cash, $26 million in the form of a three-year note, and $20 million in shares of common stock of the Corporation. The business is now part of our Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment and is expected to approximately double the sales of the segment. 

With the acquisition of &#197;kers Group, the roll business of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment of the Corporation is now operating under the name &#147;Union Electric &#197;kers.&#148; It constitutes the majority of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment. 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS 

The sales and operating profit of the Corporation&#146;s two segments and the identifiable assets attributable to both segments for the three years ended December 31, 2015 are set forth in Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment 

Union Electric Steel Corporation produces ingot and forged products that service a wide variety of industries globally. It specializes in the production of forged hardened steel rolls used in cold rolling by producers of steel, aluminum and other metals 

&#160; 

throughout the world. In addition, it produces ingot and open die forged products which are used in the gas and oil industry and the aluminum and plastic extrusion industries. Although currently representing a minor portion of the segment&#146;s business activity, sales of ingot and open die forged products are expected to grow and become a more significant portion of this segment&#146;s business activity. Union Electric Steel Corporation is headquartered in Carnegie, Pennsylvania with three manufacturing facilities in Pennsylvania, one in Indiana and one in Ohio. It is one of the largest producers of forged hardened steel rolls in the world. In addition to a few domestic competitors, several major European, South American and Asian manufacturers also compete in both the domestic and foreign markets. In 2007, a subsidiary of Union Electric Steel Corporation became a 49% partner in a joint venture in China to manufacture large forged backup rolls, principally in weights and sizes larger than those which can be made in the subsidiary&#146;s facilities in the United States. 

Union Electric Steel UK Limited produces cast rolls for hot and cold strip mills, medium/heavy section mills and plate mills in a variety of iron and steel qualities. It is located in Gateshead, England and is a major supplier of cast rolls to the metalworking industry worldwide. It primarily competes with European, Asian and North and South American companies in both the domestic and foreign markets. Union Electric Steel UK Limited is a 25% partner in a Chinese joint venture which produces cast rolls. 

The following entities became indirect subsidiaries of Union Electric Steel Corporation as a result of the acquisition of the &#197;kers Group. 

&#197;kers Sweden AB produces cast rolls for hot strip finishing, roughing mills and plate mills and medium/heavy section mills in a variety of iron and steel qualities. It is located in &#197;kers Styckebruk, Sweden. 

&#197;kers Valji Ravne d.o.o. produces forged rolls for cluster mills and Z-Hi mills, work rolls for narrow and wide strip and aluminum mills, back-up rolls for narrow strip mills, as well as leveling rolls and shafts. It is located in Ravne, Slovenia. 

Shanxi &#197;kers TISCO Roll Co. Ltd., is a joint venture between TISCO and &#197;kers AB in which &#197;kers AB holds a 60% interest, produces cast hot strip mill work rolls. It is located in Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, China. 

National Roll Company is a division of &#197;kers National Roll Co. that produces cast rolls for hot and cold strip mills, as well as plate mills. It is located in Avonmore, Pennsylvania. 

Vertical Seal Company is a division of &#197;kers National Roll Co. that manufactures bearings, bushings, key and keyless bearing sleeves, as well as provides a number of services, including rebuild of mill spare parts, chock inspection and repair, and onsite inspections and installations. It is located in Pleasantville, Pennsylvania. 

Air and Liquid Processing Segment 

Aerofin Division of Air &#38; Liquid Systems Corporation produces custom-engineered finned tube heat exchange coils and related heat transfer products for a variety of industries including fossil fuel and nuclear power generation, automotive, industrial process and HVAC, and is located in Lynchburg, Virginia. 

Buffalo Air Handling Division of Air &#38; Liquid Systems Corporation produces large custom air handling systems used in commercial, institutional and industrial buildings and is located in Amherst, Virginia. 

Buffalo Pumps Division of Air &#38; Liquid Systems Corporation manufactures a line of centrifugal pumps for the refrigeration, power generation and marine defense industries and is located in North Tonawanda, New York. 

All three of the divisions in this segment are principally represented by a common independent sales organization and have several major competitors. 

In both segments, the products are dependent on engineering, principally custom designed, and are sold to sophisticated commercial and industrial users located throughout the world. 

The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has two international customers which constituted approximately 33% of its sales in 2015. The loss of both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the segment. 

&#160; 

For additional information on the products produced and financial information about each segment, see Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used in both segments are generally available from many sources and neither segment is dependent upon any single supplier for any raw material. Substantial volumes of raw materials used by each segment are subject to significant variations in price. The Corporation&#146;s subsidiaries generally do not purchase or commit for the purchase of a major portion of raw materials significantly in advance of the time they require such materials but do make forward commitments for the supply of natural gas and certain commodities (copper and aluminum). See Note 11 (Derivative Instruments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents 

While the Corporation and its subsidiaries hold some patents, trademarks and licenses, in the opinion of management they are not material to either segment, other than in protecting the goodwill associated with the names under which products are sold. 

Backlog 

The backlog of orders at December 31, 2015 was approximately $142 million compared to a backlog of $168 million at year-end 2014. Approximately 19% of the backlog is expected to be released after 2016. 

Competition 

The Corporation faces considerable competition from a large number of companies in both segments. The Corporation believes, however, that its subsidiaries are significant factors in each of the niche markets which they serve. Competition in both segments is based on quality, service, price and delivery. For additional information, see &#147;Business&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and Development 

As part of an overall strategy to develop new markets and maintain leadership in each of the industry niches served, the Corporation&#146;s subsidiaries in both segments incur expenditures for research and development. The activities that are undertaken are designed to develop new products, improve existing products and processes, enhance product quality, adapt products to meet customer specifications and reduce manufacturing costs. In the aggregate, these expenditures approximated $1.14 million in 2015, $1.33 million in 2014 and $1.41 million in 2013. 

Environmental Protection Compliance Costs 

Expenditures for environmental control matters were not material to either segment in 2015 and such expenditures are not expected to be material in 2016. 

Employees 

On December 31, 2015, the Corporation and its subsidiaries had 1,027 active employees. 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS 

The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has manufacturing operations in England, Sweden and Slovenia; European sales and engineering support group in Belgium; and sales offices in Brazil, China, Canada, Egypt, Germany, Singapore, Slovenia, South Korea, Sweden, Taiwan and Turkey. For financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations see Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Corporation files annual, quarterly and current reports, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). You may access and read the Corporation&#146;s filings without charge through the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document the Corporation files at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F. Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. 

&#160; 

The Corporation&#146;s Internet address is www.ampcopittsburgh.com. The Corporation makes available, free of charge on its Internet website, access to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on the Corporation&#146;s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The name, age, position with the Corporation (1) and business experience for the past five years of the Executive Officers of the Corporation are as follows: 

John S. Stanik (age 62). Mr. Stanik has served as the Corporation&#146;s Chief Executive Officer since January 2015. He previously worked at Calgon Carbon Corporation, an international company specializing in purification products, technologies and services, from 1991 through 2012 when he retired for personal reasons. Mr. Stanik served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Calgon Carbon from 2003 to 2012 and became its Chairman of the Board in 2007. 

Rose Hoover (age 60). Ms. Hoover has been employed by the Corporation for more than thirty-five years. She has served as President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation since August 2015; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation since May 2011; Senior Vice President of the Corporation since 2009 and prior to that served as Vice President Administration of the Corporation since 2006. She also served as Secretary of the Corporation for more than five years. 

Marliss D. Johnson (age 51). Ms. Johnson has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Corporation since May 2013. Prior to that, she was Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of the Corporation for more than ten years. Ms. Johnson is a Certified Public Accountant with fourteen years of experience with a major accounting firm prior to joining the Corporation. 

Maria Trainor (age 41). Ms. Trainor has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Corporation since June 2015. Prior to joining the Corporation, Ms. Trainor was a partner at K&#38;L Gates, LLP, a major international law firm, where she had practiced for nearly fourteen years. 

Robert G. Carothers (age 66). Mr. Carothers has been employed by Union Electric Steel, a subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than forty years. He has served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President of the Corporation&#146;s Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment since 2009 and prior to that served as President of Union Electric Steel since 1998. 

Terrence W. Kenny (age 56). Mr. Kenny has been employed by the Corporation for almost thirty years. He has served as President of the Air and Liquid Processing Group since its organization in 2009 and prior to that served as Group Vice President of the Corporation for more than five years. 

&#160;

&#160; (1) Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors and none of the listed individuals serves as a director of a public company, except Mr. Stanik is a director of the Corporation and F.N.B. Corporation. 