 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General Business Development 

The Company was formed on September 26, 2013 in the State of Colorado. 

Business Strategy 

The Company was incorporated in September 2013. Our business model is to purchase or trade stock for oil and gas properties to be held as long term assets. Oil and gas commodity pricing has stabilized under the current economic market conditions bringing the U.S. to become the number one producer in the world. The momentum to drill using enhanced drilling technology in previously undeveloped areas assures the continued value of these properties. Our lean operating structure positions us well to compete in this very competitive market. Our strategy is to acquire producing properties that the Company can operate which have proven un-drilled locations available for further development. At this time the Company is reviewing several properties but have no contractual commitments to date. Our management&#146;s years of experience and knowledge of the oil and gas industry leads us to believe that there are an abundance of good drilling prospects available that have either been overlooked or are not big enough for the larger companies. In the process of identifying these drilling prospects, the Company will utilize the expertise of existing management and employ the highest caliber contract engineering firms available to further evaluate the properties. To qualify for acquisition, the calculated cash flow after taxes and operating expenses, including ten percent (10%) interest per year, will recover the acquisition cost in 22 to 30 months. The cash flow calculation will be based conservatively on $51 per barrel of oil and $2.89 per MCF of gas. In addition, the selection criteria will require the life of current producing wells to be 7 years or longer and the field must have a minimum total life of 15 years.

In the first phase we intend on concentrating on prospects in eastern Colorado, western Kansas and southern Wyoming. The depth of the wells in the target areas average from 1500 ft. for the Niobrara formation to a total depth of 5800 ft. for the Topeka, Heebner, Lansing-Kansas City, Marmaton, Cherokee, Atoka, Morrow, Mississippian, Spergen, and Osage formations. By concentrating our initial efforts on shallower prospects we minimize drilling and operating costs. As we grow we plan to expand into the Front Range (Northern Front Range Outcrop) and Denver Basin Province (D-J Basin, Wattenberg) of Colorado and into western Kansas (Hugoton Embayment Anadarko Basin &#150; Central Kansas Uplift). The wells in these areas range from 4,000 ft. to 10,000 ft. Such wells are more expensive to drill and operate, but also offer bigger returns. Some of the formations in these areas are the Sussex, Niobrara, Codell, J Sand and the D Sand formations. The Company intends to develop prospects and intends to obtain partners to participate in the costs of drilling or acquisitions with the Company serving as the designated Operator. The Company intends to also retain a royalty or working interest in the wells drilled or acquired.

The Company has engaged in verbal negotiations for acquisition of oil and gas leases located in Northern and eastern Colorado basin and intends to engage in additional negotiations in the future.

In the second phase of operations, we intend to expand into Oklahoma, Texas, and eastern Kansas. We intend to place a great deal of emphasis on natural gas production and the transportation of natural gas. We believe natural gas will be the fuel of the future for automobiles, trucks and buses because of the clean-air standards that are proposed and will soon be going into effect, and now is an ideal time to acquire natural gas assets due to the current pricing matrix. The Company also plans on acquiring field transportation and short haul lines as part of our future business plan expansion. Acquiring these types of company lines, specifically in the areas where the company will have production located, will be advantageous due to savings in internal transportation costs, and the profitability margins of operating the lines and marketing natural gas. Managing the transportation system, in conjunction with field operations, will enhance cash flow. After obtaining the transportation lines, we hope to then develop our own end-users for natural gas. This will further enhance the profit margin of the company.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we have no employees, but have four (4) officers and directors who are non-employee Directors. We have no agreements with any of our management/subcontractors for any services. We consider our relations with our subcontractors to be good. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All of our reports are able to be reviewed through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR) which is publicly available through the SEC's website ( http://www.sec.gov ).

We intend to furnish to our stockholders annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent certified public accountants and quarterly reports containing reviewed unaudited interim financial statements for the first three-quarters of each fiscal year. You may contact the Securities and Exchange Commission at (800) SEC-0330 or you may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission's public reference room at the following location:

Public Reference Room

100 F. Street N.W.

Washington, D.C. 2054900405

Telephone: (800) SEC-0330

