 Item 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Accuray Incorporated is a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of radiation therapy care with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our innovative technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, are designed to deliver advanced treatments, including stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), image guided radiation therapy (IGRT), and adaptive radiation therapy. The CyberKnife Systems and the TomoTherapy Systems have complementary clinical applications, enabling customers to deliver the most precise treatments while minimizing side effects and maximizing patient comfort and care. Each of these systems serves patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities. 

The CyberKnife Systems are fully robotic systems that deliver SRS and SBRT, and are used to treat multiple types of cancer and tumors throughout the body. The CyberKnife Systems automatically track, detect and correct for tumor and patient movement in real-time during the procedure, enabling delivery of precise, high dose radiation with sub-millimeter accuracy while patients breathe normally, without manual user intervention. Treatment with the CyberKnife Systems requires no anesthesia, and treatment sessions are done on an outpatient basis. In addition, the CyberKnife Systems are designed to minimize many of the risks and complications associated with other treatment options. The CyberKnife Systems are the only robotic radiosurgery systems available today which deliver such high precision treatments for intra- and extra-cranial disease sites throughout the body, including prostate, lung, brain, spine, liver, pancreas and kidney. The latest generation CyberKnife M6 Series System is available with the new InCise Multileaf Collimator (InCise MLC), the world's first multileaf collimator (MLC) to be available on a robotic platform. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife Systems, while significantly reducing treatment times, for a wider range of tumor types, including larger and different kinds of tumors than were previously treated. Additional options include the fixed collimator, and the Iris Variable Aperture Collimator, giving clinicians a range of collimation forms to choose from to meet the needs of their patients. 

The TomoTherapy Systems represent the only radiation therapy platform specifically designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). Based on a ring gantry CT scanner platform, the TomoTherapy System provides continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified direct beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to deliver dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient's tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for patients. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung, and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex treatments such as total marrow irradiation, while minimizing side effects; and enable efficient daily imaging to ensure the accuracy of the patient position before each treatment delivery. The latest generation TomoTherapy System is the Radixact that includes the following options: TomoHelical, TomoDirect, and TomoEdge dynamic jaws. The system configuration depends on the options chosen by the customer. 

We are also introducing Onrad, a lower priced, direct delivery system, to China. The Onrad System is designed to meet the ease of use and throughput demands of a market segment in which Accuray has not previously competed. 

We were incorporated in California in 1990 and commenced operations in 1992. We reincorporated in Delaware in 2007. Our principal offices are located at 1310 Chesapeake Terrace, Sunnyvale, CA 94089, and our telephone number is (408) 716-4600. 

Market Overview 

Despite significant improvements in cancer diagnosis and treatment, cancer rates continue to increase globally and are a leading cause of death. According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, the specialized cancer agency of the World Health Organization, annual cancer rates around the world are projected to increase by over 56% to 22.0 million new cases in the year 2030 from 14.1 million cases in 2012. 

Cancers can be broadly divided into two groups: solid tumor cancers, which are characterized by the growth of malignant tumors within the body in areas such as the brain, lung, liver, breast or prostate, and hematological, or blood-borne cancers, such as leukemia. The American Cancer Society (ACS) estimates that solid tumor cancers will account for approximately 1.5 million, or approximately 91% of new cancer cases diagnosed annually, and will account for approximately 0.5 million cancer related deaths in the United States in 2015. 

Traditional methods for the treatment of solid tumor cancers include chemotherapy, surgery and radiation therapy. The most common type of radiation therapy is external beam radiation therapy, in which patients are treated with high-energy radiation generated by medical equipment external to the patient. The global radiotherapy equipment and software market has three main segments: Linear Accelerators (Linacs), Treatment Planning Systems, and Radiation Therapy Simulators. According to the January 2015 Radiation Therapy Equipment Report by Global Industry Analysts, Inc., Linear Accelerators represent the largest segment of radiotherapy equipment and are forecast to expand from an estimated $3.4 billion for 2014 to reach $5.2 billion by the year 2020. Treatment planning systems are poised to grow to $1.9 billion by 2020, up from an estimates $1.1 billion in 2014. Increasing preference for non-surgical options is a major factor promoting radiotherapy. Approximately 60% of cancer patients worldwide will undergo some form of radiation therapy during the course of their treatment. While radiation therapy is widely available in the United States and Western Europe, many developing countries currently do not have a sufficient number of linacs to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. We believe increasing demand for advanced medical treatments in many international markets and growth in cancer incidences worldwide will continue to drive demand for advanced linacs in the coming years. 

Emerging markets are especially underequipped with external beam radiation therapy systems. According to publication in the International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology and Physics in 2014, radiation therapy is required in more than half of the newly diagnosed cancer patients and of those cured, 40% are by radiotherapy alone or in combination with other modalities. It is estimated that by 2020, low and middle income countries will need over 9,000 additional radiation therapy systems. China alone is estimated to have a shortfall of over 3,800 systems because of increasing cancer incidence and an aging population that is estimated to more than double by 2040. 

Radiation Therapy 

Radiation therapy is used to treat a wide range of cancer and tumor types by using high-energy radiation to destroy cancer cells and shrink or control the growth of tumors. Radiation therapy works by exposing clusters of cancer cells, or tumors, to a dose of high-energy radiation sufficient to cause cell death and prevent cells from multiplying. During external beam radiation therapy, the clinician's goal is to target radiation delivery to the tumor as precisely as possible in order to maximize the radiation dose delivered to cancerous tissue and minimize the exposure of healthy tissue. Recent advances in radiation therapy technologies have allowed clinicians to further improve the ability to target the radiation dose more precisely at cancer cells while minimizing the exposure of healthy tissue. These advances include the following: 

Intensity modulated radiation therapy. Intensity modulated radiation therapy involves varying, or modulating, the radiation beam intensity across the treatment area. This technique aims to conform the high dose region of the radiation beam more closely with the shape of the tumor, enabling the delivery of higher doses of radiation to tumors with a reduced impact on surrounding healthy tissue. 

Image guided radiation therapy. IGRT involves delivering radiation guided by images of the treatment area taken shortly before and/or during treatment using CT scan, x-ray, ultrasound or other imaging technologies. By combining imaging with radiation treatment, clinicians can adjust the patient's position relative to the radiation source prior to each treatment to target the tumor more precisely. 

Radiosurgery and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy. Radiosurgery is a form of radiation therapy that uses precisely targeted radiation to destroy tumors. Radiosurgery is non-invasive; there is no cutting involved. It is commonly used by neurosurgeons to treat conditions within the brain and spine. SBRT is a treatment that uses precisely targeted radiation, like radiosurgery, to destroy tumors located outside the brain and spine. Radiosurgery and SBRT typically involve the delivery of a single high dose radiation treatment or a few fractionated radiation treatments (usually up to five) to ablate (destroy) all tissue within the tumor. To achieve the accuracy and precision required for both radiosurgery and SBRT, image guidance during treatment, the ability to adjust the aim of the beam in real-time to compensate for tumor motion and a wide range of beam angles, are critical for treatment. 

Adaptive radiation therapy. Adaptive radiation therapy involves adjusting a patient's radiation therapy plan during or between fractions to account for changes in the patient's anatomy, the amount and location of the radiation received by the patient, and the size, shape and location of the tumor. While there is no widely accepted definition of adaptive radiation therapy, it has been characterized to include as little as an adjustment to the physical position of the patient relative to the radiation source prior to treatment, as occurs during IGRT, rather than an adjustment to the treatment plan. Our approach is based on the belief that adaptive radiation therapy requires monitoring and adjustments to the treatment plan facilitated by both the regular acquisition of updated quantitative images showing the location, size, shape and density of the tumor, and verification of the radiation dose received by the patient throughout the entire course of treatment. 

Hypofractionation. Hypofractionation involves the delivery of higher doses of radiation in fewer fractions than are used in conventional radiation therapy. Higher doses of radiation have been shown to provide greater local control of the tumor. The advent of innovative technological features in radiation therapy treatment planning and delivery has enabled clinicians to maximize the radiation dose administered to tumors in the patient, improving local tumor control and, in some cases, improving patient survival rates. Additional benefits of hypofractionation include minimal side effects, fewer treatments and greater scheduling convenience for the patient. Hypofractionation is often used to treat small targets throughout the body, especially when located near critical structures, including the brain, head and neck, spine, lung and prostate. It is also being used more frequently in clinical applications where the radiobiology is appropriate for fewer fractions of higher doses, including the prostate and breast. 

Despite advances in radiation therapy techniques, most commercially available radiation therapy systems from other manufacturers still present significant limitations that restrict clinicians' ability to provide the most precise treatment possible. These limitations include: 

Limited versatility and precision. The C-arm configuration of traditional radiation therapy systems has a limited range and speed of motion because of its size and mechanical structure. C-arm linac architecture is limited to delivering radiation in a single plane (coplanar) thus limiting its radiation delivery capability for complex and advanced cases. Additionally, most previously existing MLCs, which modulate or shape the radiation beams, have mechanical limitations that reduce their beam-shaping ability and the speed at which they operate. These design elements limit the motion and dynamic range of IMRT intensities capable of being delivered by traditional radiation therapy systems and often make it challenging to achieve the precision needed to maximize dose to the tumor while avoiding damage to healthy tissue and minimizing side effects. These limited treatment angles reduce the ability to deliver precisely targeted radiation that minimizes exposure to healthy tissue. Such imprecision may prevent clinicians from treating tumors near sensitive anatomic structures, such as the eye or the spinal cord, or from re-treating patients in an area of the body that was previously exposed to radiation and may be unable to tolerate additional exposure. 

Limited ability to provide frequent, quantitative images. Precise radiation therapy requires frequent images that accurately depict the size, shape and location of the tumor. Many traditional radiation therapy systems use imaging technologies that are not generally used on a daily basis to generate a quantitative assessment of the patient's and/or target volume's position due to concerns about the additional radiation exposure. In addition, traditional radiation therapy systems measure the amount of radiation emitted by the device based on the system's performance specifications. This calculation does not provide the clinician with data regarding the amount of radiation that was received by the patient or what tissue within the patient's body received any particular amount of radiation. Since it is common for internal organs to shift and for the size of the tumor to change during the course of treatment, failure to obtain updated images and adapt the patient and/or plan throughout the course of treatment may result in a portion, or potentially all, of the radiation dose missing the tumor and instead being absorbed by healthy tissue. 

Failure to integrate multiple functions. The basic architecture for traditional radiation therapy systems pre-dates many recent advances that enable integrated imaging, treatment planning, dose verification or quality assurance capabilities necessary for more advanced treatment protocols. Some conventional systems have been subsequently adapted to include certain elements of this functionality by incorporating modular add-on devices to legacy linac designs. These separate modular components can provide imaging, treatment planning, quality assurance procedures or post-treatment analysis functionality. However, this add-on architectural approach can have safety, accuracy, and workflow implications because of the manual methods used for checking proper system operation. 

Development of Radiosurgery 

Advanced radiation therapy systems designed to deliver radiosurgery or stereotactic body radiation therapy differ from traditional radiation therapy systems in that they are designed to deliver a very high cumulative dose of radiation, in a single or a small number of treatments precisely targeted at the tumor rather than at a region that consists of the tumor plus healthy tissue that surrounds the tumor area. The more accurate delivery of radiation allows higher doses to be delivered, increasing the probability of tumor cell death and better local control. In addition, radiosurgery can be administered to patients who have inoperable or surgically complex tumors, or who may prefer a clinically effective, non-surgical treatment option. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to develop equipment and technology that enable physicians to deliver precise, customized, leading-edge treatment solutions that help cancer patients live longer, better lives. We endeavor to achieve this goal by expanding the clinical options for healthcare providers, helping them offer the best radiation treatment for each patient and by providing patients with treatment tailored to their specific needs. Our vision is a future where the fear, pain and suffering of cancer are a thing of the past. We believe our current technologies and our future innovation can help to achieve this. Some of the key elements of our strategy include the following: 

Increase physician adoption and patient awareness to drive utilization. We are continually working to increase adoption and awareness of our systems and demonstrate their advantages over more traditional treatment methods. We hold and sponsor symposia and educational meetings and support clinical studies in an effort to demonstrate the clinical benefits of our systems. We regularly meet with clinicians to educate them on the expanded versatility that our systems offer in comparison to more traditional radiation therapy products or surgery. To support awareness of all of our product offerings, we assist our customers with increasing patient awareness in their communities by providing them tools to develop marketing and educational campaigns. 

Continue to expand the radiosurgery market. While radiosurgery has traditionally been used to treat brain tumors, the CyberKnife Systems received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), clearance in 2001 to treat tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated. Our system data demonstrate that over 55% of CyberKnife utilization is for cancers and tumors in the body in places other than the brain. There are now hundreds of peer-reviewed publications supporting use of CyberKnife in treatment of various cancer and tumor types. 

Continue to innovate through clinical development and collaboration. The clinical success of our products is largely the result of the collaborative partnerships we have developed over the last decade with clinicians, researchers and patients. We proactively seek out and rely on constructive feedback from system users to learn what is needed to enhance the technology. As a result of this collaborative process, we continually refine and upgrade our systems, thereby improving our competitive position in the radiation therapy and radiosurgery markets. Upgrades to our systems are designed to address customer needs in the areas of improving the ease of use and accuracy of treatment, decreasing treatment times, and improving utilization for specific types of tumors. 

Expand sales in international markets. We intend to continue to increase our sales and distribution capabilities outside of the United States to take advantage of the large international opportunity for our products. Outside of the United States, we currently have regional offices in Morges, Switzerland, Hong Kong, China, Shanghai, China and Tokyo, Japan and direct sales staff in most countries in Western Europe, Japan, India and Canada. Combined with distributors in Eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America, our sales and distribution channels cover more than 92 countries. However, many of these countries are not highly developed at this time and 

therefore sales opportunities may be limited. We intend to increase our international revenue by focused additions of direct sales and marketing personnel in targeted areas to further penetrate our most promising international markets, and additional distributors where opportune. 

Strategic partnerships and joint ventures. We intend to pursue strategic partnerships and joint ventures we believe will allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase sales in our current markets and expand into adjacent markets, broaden our technology and intellectual property and strengthen our relationships with our customers. In fiscal 2016 we signed an agreement with RaySearch which will lead to the integration of treatment planning support for the TomoTherapy and CyberKnife Systems in the RayStation treatment planning system (TPS). We also signed an agreement with medPhoton GmbH to collaborate on integration of its ImagingRing system, a new technology for volumetric image guidance, with the CyberKnife System. 

Our Products 

Our suite of products includes the CyberKnife Systems, the TomoTherapy Systems, and the Radixact Delivery Treatment Platform. 

The CyberKnife Systems 

Our principal radiosurgery products are the CyberKnife Systems, a robotic full-body radiosurgery system designed to treat tumors anywhere in the body non-invasively, which include the CyberKnife M6 Series with configuration options of fixed collimators plus the Iris Variable Aperture Collimator (FI), fixed collimators plus the InCise MLC (FM) and fixed collimators plus the Iris Variable Aperture Collimator plus the InCise MLC (FIM). 

Using continual image guidance technology and computer controlled robotic mobility, the CyberKnife Systems are designed to deliver precise radiation from a wide array of beam angles and automatically track, detect and correct for tumor and patient movement in real-time throughout the treatment. This design is intended to enable the CyberKnife Systems to deliver high-dose radiation with precision, which minimizes damage to surrounding healthy tissue and eliminates the need for invasive head or body stabilization frames. Our patented image-guidance technology correlates low dose, real-time treatment X-rays with images previously taken with a CT scan of the tumor and surrounding tissue to direct each beam of radiation with increased precision versus treatments without this real-time feedback. This, in turn, enables delivery of a highly conformal, non-isocentric dose of radiation to the tumor, with minimal radiation delivered to surrounding healthy tissue. With its autonomous ability to track, detect and correct for even the slightest tumor and patient movement throughout the entire treatment, the CyberKnife System is intended to provide clinicians with an effective and accurate treatment. 

Our configurations of CyberKnife Systems include the following: 

The CyberKnife M6 Series with configurations of FI, FM and FIM. The M6 Series has been approved/cleared by the FDA, and is able to be sold in most major markets globally. It is used with either of the following options: an Iris collimator (I) or a multileaf collimator (M). With the InCise MLC, larger tumors previously thought untreatable with radiosurgery and SBRT are able to be treated efficiently and with unrivaled accuracy and tissue sparing. The InCise MLC and IMRT planning tools enable expansion of indications that can be treated with a CyberKnife to include many IMRT indications. The CyberKnife M6 Series includes disease-specific tracking and treatment delivery solutions for brain, spine, lung and prostate tumors, treatment speed improvements, more options to configure the treatment room, expanded number of nodes leading to more coverage and sparing of healthy tissue. 

We believe the CyberKnife Systems offer clinicians and patients the following benefits: 

The only truly robotic system in the market. Combining the benefits of continual image guidance and non-isocentric, non-coplanar treatment delivery, the CyberKnife Systems precisely contour radiation delivery to spare healthy tissue while maintaining sub-millimeter accuracy, even for targets that move during treatment. The CyberKnife Systems are the clinical solution to choose when accuracy, flexibility, efficiency and patient comfort are essential. 

Treatment of inoperable or surgically complex tumors. The CyberKnife Systems may be used to target tumors that cannot be easily treated with traditional surgical techniques because of their location, number, size, shape or proximity to vital tissues or organs, or because of the age or health of the patient. The CyberKnife Systems' intelligent robotics enable the precise targeting of a tumor, while at the same time minimizing damage to surrounding healthy tissue. 

Treatment of tumors throughout the body. The CyberKnife Systems have been cleared by the FDA to provide treatment planning and image-guided radiosurgery treatment for tumors anywhere in the body where radiation treatment is indicated. By comparison, traditional frame-based radiosurgery systems are generally limited to treating brain tumors and use cobalt 60 radioactive material, which decays over time and is difficult to replace. The CyberKnife Systems are being used for the treatment of primary and metastatic tumors outside the brain, including tumors on or near the spine and in the lung, liver, prostate, kidney and pancreas in addition to tumors in the brain, with the same sub-millimeter accuracy in every disease site. 

Real-time tracking of tumor movement. The CyberKnife Systems are designed to enable the treatment of tumors that change position because of respiration, or tumor or patient movement during treatment. The CyberKnife Systems offer the following features which enhance image guided robotic radiation surgery: Synchrony Respiratory Tracking System, Xsight Lung Tracking System, Xsight Spine Tracking System, InTempo Adaptive Imaging System and Lung Optimized Treatment (optional). 

Significant patient benefits. The CyberKnife Systems maximize patient comfort. Patients may be treated with the CyberKnife Systems on an outpatient basis without anesthesia and without the risks and complications inherent in traditional surgery. Patients do not require substantial pre-treatment preparation, and typically there is little to no recovery time or hospital stay associated with CyberKnife Systems' treatments. In addition, the CyberKnife Systems eliminate the need for an invasive rigid frame to be screwed into the patient's skull or affixed to other parts of the body, or for artificial breath holding or gating instruments. 

Additional revenue generation through increased patient volumes. We believe clinical use of the CyberKnife Systems allows our customers to effectively treat patients where extreme precision and ability to account for motion are important, and patients who otherwise would not have been treated with radiation or who may not have been good candidates for surgery. 

Upgradeable modular design. The CyberKnife Systems have a modular design, which facilitates the implementation of upgrades that often do not require our customers to purchase an entirely new system to gain the benefits of new features. We continue to work to develop and offer new clinical capabilities enhancing ease of use, reducing treatment times, improving accuracy and improving patient access. The main components and options of the CyberKnife Systems include: the compact X-band linear accelerator; robotic manipulator, the real-time image-guidance system with continuous target tracking and correction; X-ray sources; image detectors. Key features of these components include: 

Robotic manipulator arm. The robotic manipulator arm, with six-degrees-of-freedom range of movement, is designed to move around the patient to position the linac and direct the radiation with an extremely high level of precision and repeatability. The manipulator arm provides what we believe to be a unique method of positioning the linac to deliver doses of radiation from nearly 

any direction and position, without the limitations inherent in gantry-based systems, creating a non-isocentric composite dose pattern with a high level of conformance to the shape of each treated tumor. This flexibility enhances the ability to diversify beam trajectories and beam entrance and exit points, helping to minimize risks of radiation damage to healthy cells near the tumor. Furthermore, the rapid response time of the manipulator arm allows tracking of tumors that move with respiration. 

Real-time image-guidance system with continuous target tracking and correction. Without the need for clinician intervention or treatment interruption, the CyberKnife Systems' real-time image-guided robotics are designed to enable continuous monitoring and correction for patient and tumor movements throughout each treatment as it is being delivered. 

X-ray sources. The low-energy X-ray sources generate the X-ray images that help determine the location of bony or other anatomic landmarks, or implanted fiducials, which are used for tracking throughout the entire treatment. 

Image detectors. The image detectors capture high-resolution anatomical images throughout the treatment. These live images are continually compared to the patient's CT scan to determine real-time patient positioning. Based on this information, the robotic manipulator automatically corrects for detected movements. 

In addition to the main components listed above, we also offer the following components and options: Synchrony Respiratory Tracking System; Xsight Spine Tracking System; Xsight Lung Tracking System; Lung Optimized Treatment; RoboCouch Patient Positioning System; Xchange Robotic Collimator Changer; Iris Variable Aperture Collimator; 4D Treatment Optimization and Planning System; InTempo Adaptive Imaging System; MultiPlan Treatment Planning System; MultiPlan MD Suite; CyberKnife Data Management System; MultiPlan Quick Review; Radiosurgery DICOM Interface; Monte Carlo Dose Calculation; Sequential Optimization Treatment Planning; Robotic IMRT; AutoSegmentation; QuickPlan; PlanTouch; and the InCise MLC. Key features of these components are as follow: 

Synchrony Respiratory Tracking System. The CyberKnife Systems' proprietary motion tracking system, the Synchrony Respiratory Tracking System, is the first and only technology to continuously synchronize beam delivery to the motion of the tumor in real time, enabling the delivery of highly conformal radiation beams while reducing healthy tissue exposure. It is used to continuously track tumors that move with respiration as beams are synchronized in real-time to tumor position while adapting to changes in breathing patterns. The Synchrony system provides what we believe is unsurpassed clinical accuracy of approximately 1.5 millimeters for tumors that move with respiration without the need for implanted fiducials. It makes it possible and practical for clinicians to deliver radiation dose with sub-millimeter precision, even for tumors that move with respiration. 

Iris Variable Aperture Collimator. The Iris Variable Aperture Collimator enables delivery of beams in 12 unique sizes with a single collimator, which significantly reduces treatment times and the total radiation dose delivered to the patient. 

4D Treatment Optimization and Planning System. The 4D Treatment Optimization and Planning System is designed to optimize treatment by taking into account the movement of the tumor and the movement and change in shape of the surrounding tissue, thereby minimizing margins and radiation exposure to healthy tissue. 

MultiPlan Treatment Planning System. The MultiPlan System enables physicians to generate high quality treatment plans for the CyberKnife Systems, through a comprehensive set of planning tools for image fusion, contouring, dose calculation and treatment plan review that can be remotely accessed by a secure connection from outside the clinic. The MultiPlan system uses input images from multiple 

modalities, including computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and 3D angiography. 

CyberKnife Data Management System. The results of a patient's treatment delivery, such as dose delivered from each beam, each path and each fraction, and details about the images acquired and corrections applied are recorded and stored in the data management system and are recorded and stored in the data management system. 

Radiosurgery DICOM Interface. Data management systems, such as the CyberKnife Data Management System, utilize industry-standard interface protocols, such as DICOM, to export patient information to the OIS. The Radiosurgery DICOM Interface integrates the CyberKnife Systems with oncology departments' Oncology Information System (OIS) electronic medical record to generate a comprehensive export of the radiosurgery treatment history. 

Monte Carlo Dose Calculation. Our optional Monte Carlo Dose Calculation software uses Monte Carlo simulation algorithms in treatment planning and dose calculation. Our Monte Carlo dose calculation algorithm can perform the necessary treatment planning calculations in a significantly shorter time frame as compared to conventional Monte Carlo dose calculation methods, thereby accelerating the treatment planning process. 

QuickPlan. Our QuickPlan technology enables a complete treatment plan to be generated automatically, and the results presented to the user for review. 

PlanTouch. PlanTouch is the first commercially available, fully integrated software application in radiation oncology that allows physicians to remotely review and approve patients' radiation treatment plans on the iPad. 

InCise Multileaf Collimator. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the CyberKnife M6 Series. It delivers the same precise SRS and SBRT treatments clinicians expect from the CyberKnife Systems, while significantly reducing treatment times. With the InCise MLC, the CyberKnife M6 Series can be used to treat larger and irregular tumors more efficiently. 

The TomoTherapy Systems 

The TomoTherapy Systems include the TomoTherapy H Series with configuration options of TomoH, TomoHD and TomoHDA. The TomoTherapy System is cleared for sale by the FDA and in most major markets globally. These systems consist of fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems used by healthcare professionals in the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients the following benefits: 

Versatile treatment capabilities. The TomoTherapy Systems' ring gantry platform enables precise and efficient treatments with a high degree of dose conformity. The high-speed binary InCise MLC, is integrated with the linac and consists of 64 individual low leakage tungsten leaves that move across the beam to either block or allow the passage of radiation, effectively shaping the beam as it is emitted. The combination of the ring gantry and the high-speed InCise MLC (which we refer to as TomoHelical) enable treatment to be delivered continuously in a 360-degree helical pattern around the patient's body. Additionally, the TomoDirect feature provides the TomoTherapy Systems added versatility to provide high quality, fixed angle beams for those cases suited to simple tangential beam radiation delivery. All TomoTherapy Systems enable an operator to provide non-isocentric three-dimensional conformal image-guided IMRT or stereotactic treatments within a typical cylindrical volume of 80 centimeters in diameter and up to 135 centimeters in length. This expansive treatment field allows large areas of the body to be treated in a single session and the treatment of widely distant tumors. The TomoTherapy Systems' versatility, efficiency and precision offer clinicians an extensive range of effective treatment possibilities. 

Daily, quantitative imaging for better identification of tumors, dose verification and treatment planning. The TomoTherapy Systems offer integrated quantitative CT imaging capabilities, which depict the density of tumors and healthy tissue more accurately than traditional radiation therapy systems. Our integrated mega-voltage computed tomography (MVCT), which we market as our CTrue imaging technology, uses a low-intensity, fan beam CT to collect quantitative images prior to each treatment. These images allow lung tissue, fat, muscle and bone to be clearly distinguished. In addition, because of the low radiation dose involved, the clinician can collect daily, quantitative images, which can be used to monitor changes in the patient's internal anatomy and quickly adapt the plan if deemed clinically necessary. We believe daily, quantitative, relatively low dose images are essential to optimizing patient treatment by enabling clinicians to adapt the treatment plan in response to anatomical changes. 

Integrated treatment system for precise radiation delivery. We believe the integration of our CT imaging technology, treatment planning and helical delivery mode of radiation beams enables highly accurate and precise radiation delivery. Our adaptive software allows clinicians to establish at the time of treatment the contours of a tumor and any sensitive structures at risk. The TomoTherapy Systems use a highly efficient dose optimization algorithm to ensure the radiation beam conforms to the patient's tumor and minimizes exposure to sensitive healthy tissue structures, providing a highly-targeted dose distribution. These features significantly benefit patients by increasing the radiation delivered to cancerous tissues while reducing damage to nearby healthy tissues and minimizing side effects. 

Efficient clinical workflow for Image Guided Radiation Therapy, or IGRT, and adaptive radiation therapy. The TomoTherapy Systems integrate into a single system all of the key elements for radiation therapy, including treatment planning, CT image-guided patient positioning, treatment delivery, quality assurance and adaptive planning. The imaging and treatment planning capabilities of many traditional systems are more modular or require cumbersome add-ons or separate treatment planning systems that result in clinicians taking more steps between scanning, planning and treatment of patients. Conversely, the integrated CT imaging and treatment features of the TomoTherapy Systems allow clinicians to scan, plan and treat cancer patients efficiently. Daily images can be easily accessed remotely, via our TomoPortal web-enabled interface, to verify patient positioning and collaboratively define patient treatment strategies. Taking advantage of this integration capability, our StatRT software allows the full radiation therapy process, CT scanning, treatment planning and treatment delivery, to be completed rapidly. 

Low barriers to installation and implementation. All external beam radiation systems must be housed in rooms which have special radiation shielding to capture any radiation not absorbed by the patient. The TomoTherapy Systems' size and self-contained design allow customers to retrofit them into existing treatment rooms previously used for legacy radiation therapy systems and avoid, or reduce, the significant construction costs that can be associated with building new, larger treatment rooms, which are often required to install many other radiation therapy systems. With both imaging and radiation delivery capabilities in its ring gantry, the TomoTherapy Systems require less space than other linac systems, which use large moving arms to position the linac or incorporate adjacent imaging equipment used for treatment planning. In addition, because the TomoTherapy Systems have an integrated radiation beam stop, which captures radiation that passes through the patient, they require less radiation shielding in treatment room walls as compared to the shielding required by a traditional system. We also preassemble, test and commission each TomoTherapy Systems at our manufacturing facility, and ship the system almost fully assembled. This assembly process typically allows radiation "beam on" within four days after delivery and first patient treatments to begin within 30 to 45 days after delivery. 

Platform for further technological advancements in adaptive radiation therapy. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems are uniquely positioned to enable truly adaptive radiation therapy because of 

their unique ability to provide daily, quantitative images, high speed delivery of radiation from fixed beam angles or helically from 360 degrees around the body and real-time verification of the dose received by the patient. We believe the combination of these design features and our integrated treatment planning and optimization software will allow us to continue to enhance the TomoTherapy Systems' adaptive capabilities to enable clinicians to routinely and easily adjust a patient's treatment as needed, thereby remaining true to the intent of the original treatment plan. 

In addition to the functionality listed above, the TomoTherapy Systems may be enhanced with the following product options: TomoDirect Treatment Mode; Planned Adaptive; OIS Connect TomoTherapy Remote Software Solutions (Remote Planning and TomoPortal); Tomo Quality Assurance (TQA) Package; VoLO Technology; TomoEdge Dynamic Jaws, and Delivery Analysis. Key features of these options are as follow: 

TomoDirect Treatment Mode. The TomoDirect mode is a discrete angle, non-rotational delivery mode for the TomoTherapy Systems that allows the user to create a treatment plan that defines up to twelve target-specific gantry angles. Treatment planning is completed rapidly by all beams for each target being delivered sequentially with the couch passing through the bore of the system at an appropriate speed for each gantry angle. The TomoDirect mode enables users to plan and treat routine cases with greater efficiency, while achieving the quality of TomoTherapy's unique beamlet-based delivery. 

OIS Connect software option. The OIS Connect software option is a DICOM standard-based solution that provides the ability to interface a TomoTherapy System to a compatible OIS. 

Tomo Quality Assurance (TQA) package. The TQA application offers trending and reporting of many system and dosimetric parameters that allow physicians to monitor the performance of their TomoTherapy Systems. 

VoLO Technology. The VoLO Technology is a treatment planning system that leverages advanced graphics processing technology and a new calculation algorithm to increase clinical efficiency, throughput and flexibility in developing even the most complex radiation plans. This solution features high-speed parallel processing for both dose calculation and optimization, based on Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) technology. In addition, VoLO represents the first use of a new Non-Voxel Broad Beam (NVBB) calculation algorithm that takes advantage of both the GPU's unparalleled speed and the TomoTherapy Systems unique beamlet radiation delivery system to develop dose distributions from the perspective of each beamlet (up to tens of thousands in any given plan) as they pass through the patient's body. VoLO technology empowers clinicians to create highly customized treatment plans in less time, with greater flexibility to work interactively and in real time to efficiently develop the best IMRT treatment plans for even the most complex cases. 

TomoEdge Dynamic Jaws. TomoEdge is standard on the TomoTherapy HDA model and is also available on H and HD models. By dynamically varying the width of the collimator jaws during treatment delivery, dose to normal tissues immediately adjacent to the tumor is reduced, contributing to the minimization of radiation side effects. Additionally, overall irradiation time is shortened because the jaws are allowed to open more broadly throughout much of the delivery. The resulting gains in treatment quality and speed expand the TomoTherapy Systems clinical and market reach within the conventional and stereotactic radiotherapy spaces. 

Delivery Analysis. A new FDA cleared option designed to enable easy pre-treatment patient QA and also offers an innovative capability to monitor doses throughout the patient treatment using detector signals to ensure that the patient is receiving the expected dose from treatment to treatment. The product option provides both high level analytics for summary display as well as detailed analysis capability. 

In 2016 we received FDA and CE Mark approval for the new Radixact Treatment Delivery Platform. We also received 510(k) clearance for our new treatment planning and data management systems, Accuray Precision Treatment Planning System and iDMS Data Management System. These next generation hardware and software solutions which, together, make up the new Radixact System, enable faster, more efficient delivery of extremely precise treatment to a wider range of cancer patients, including those undergoing retreatment. The new Radixact System represents a major step forward in the evolution of the TomoTherapy System in treatment speed and ease of use. 

In addition, we received approval from the China FDA for the Onrad System in 2016, a direct delivery only system designed to meet the ease of use and throughput needs for this market, which provides us with the ability to be competitive in this market sector. 

Sales and Marketing 

In the United States, we primarily market to customers directly through our sales organization, and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors. We have sales and service offices in many countries in Europe, Japan, China, and other countries in Asia, Latin America, and throughout the world. 

In direct sales markets, we employ a combination of territory sales managers, training specialists and marketing managers. Territory sales managers and product specialists are responsible for selling the systems to hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities. Our marketing managers help market our current products and work with our engineering group to identify and develop upgrades and enhancements for our suite of products. Our training specialists train radiation oncologists, surgeons, physicists, dosimetrists and radiation therapists. 

We market our products to radiation oncologists, neurosurgeons, general surgeons, oncology specialists and other referring physicians in hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities. We intend to continue to increase our focus on marketing and education efforts to surgical specialists and oncologists responsible for treating tumors throughout the body. Our marketing activities also include efforts to inform and educate cancer patients about the benefits of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. 

Under our standard distribution agreement, we generally appoint a distributor for a specific country. We typically also retain the right to distribute the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems in such territories, though we remain bound by certain agreements entered into by TomoTherapy prior to our acquisition that did not retain such rights in certain jurisdictions. In most territories, our distributors generally provide the full range of service and sales capabilities, although we may provide installation and service support for certain distributors. 

Manufacturing 

We purchase major components for each of our products from outside suppliers, including the robotic manipulator, treatment couches, gantry, magnetrons and computers. We closely monitor supplier quality, delivery performance and conformance to product specifications, and we also expect suppliers to contribute to our efforts to improve our manufacturing cost and quality. 

Some of the components are obtained from single-source suppliers. These components include the gantry, couch, magnetron and solid state modulator for the TomoTherapy Systems and the robot, couch, and magnetron for the CyberKnife Systems. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, we believe we would be able to find other sources for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. In the event of a disruption in any of these suppliers' ability to deliver a component, we would need to secure a replacement supplier. Additionally, any disruption or interruption of the supply of key subsystems could result in increased costs and delays in deliveries 

of our treatment systems, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. To help mitigate these risks, we negotiate long-term supply contracts or submit long-term orders and forecasts to our single-source suppliers with the goal that our demand can be satisfied and any capacity problem can be mitigated. 

Currently, we manufacture our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems in Madison, Wisconsin. We manufacture the linear accelerator for our TomoTherapy Systems at our Chengdu, China facility and we manufacture the linear accelerator for our CyberKnife Systems at our Sunnyvale, California facility. Our facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques and equipment. The components manufactured at this facility are produced under an International Standard Organization (ISO), 9001:2008 certified quality management systems. The completed medical devices are designed, manufactured, installed, serviced and distributed at our Sunnyvale, Madison and Morges facilities under quality management systems which are compliant to the internationally recognized quality system standard for medical devices ISO, 13485:2003, and the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA. We believe our manufacturing facilities will be adequate for our expected growth and foreseeable future demands for at least the next three years. 

The manufacturing processes at our facilities include fabrication, subassembly, assembly, system integration and final testing. Our manufacturing personnel consist of fabricators, assemblers and technicians supported by production engineers as well as planning and supply chain managers. Our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. We have also incorporated lean manufacturing techniques to improve manufacturing flow and efficiency. Lean manufacturing techniques include reducing wasteful and extraneous activities, balancing assembly and test flow, as well as better utilizing production assets and resources. 

Intellectual Property 

The proprietary nature of, and protection for, our products, product components, processes and know-how are important to our business. We seek patent protection in the United States and internationally for our systems and other technology where available and when appropriate. We may also in-license the technology, inventions and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. In addition, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, copyright protection, as well as confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights and to develop and maintain our competitive position. 

As of June 30, 2016, we held exclusive field of use licenses or ownership of approximately 354 U.S. and foreign patents, and approximately 93 U.S. and foreign patent applications. These patents and applications cover various components and techniques incorporated into the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, or which may be incorporated into new technologies under current development, all of which we believe will allow us to maintain a competitive advantage in the field of radiation therapy systems. We cannot be certain that any patents will be issued from any of our pending patent applications, nor can we be certain that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us in the future will provide us with protection. 

We periodically monitor the activities of our competitors and other third parties with respect to their use of intellectual property. 

Research and Development 

Continued innovation is critical to our future success. Our current product development activities include projects expanding clinical applications, driving product differentiation, and continually improving the usability, interoperability, reliability, and performance of our products. We continue to seek to develop innovative technologies so that we can improve our products and increase our sales. Some of our product improvements have been discussed above under the heading "Our Products." 

Our research activities strive to enable new product development opportunities by developing new technologies and advancing areas of existing core technology such as next generation linac, adaptive therapy, patient imaging, motion management, or treatment planning capabilities. 

The modular design of our systems supports rapid development for new clinical capabilities and performance enhancements by generally allowing each subsystem to evolve within the overall platform design. Access to regular product upgrades protects customer investment in the system, facilitates the rapid adoption of new features and capabilities among existing installed base customers, and drives increasing value in our multiyear service plans. These upgrades will generally consist of software and hardware enhancements designed to increase the ease of use of our systems, improve the speed and accuracy of patient treatment and meet other customer needs. 

As of June 30, 2016, we had 176 employees in our research and development departments. Research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $56.7 million, $55.8 million and $53.7 million, respectively. We anticipate research and development expenses for fiscal 2017 to be lower than fiscal 2016 due to the completion of key development projects toward the end of fiscal year 2016. 

A key component of our research and development program is our collaboration with research programs at selected hospitals, cancer treatment centers, academic institutions and research institutions worldwide. Our agreements with these third-party collaborators generally require us to make milestone-based payments during the course of a particular project and often also require that we make up-front payments to fund initial activities. Generally, we obtain non-exclusive worldwide rights to commercialize results from the collaboration with an option to negotiate an exclusive license. For inventions resulting from the collaboration that we own or exclusively license, we generally grant a royalty-free license for the purpose of continuing the institution's research and development, and from time to time, we also grant broader licenses. Our research collaboration programs include work on clinical protocols and hardware and software developments. We also work with suppliers to develop new components in order to increase the reliability and performance of our products and seek opportunities to acquire or invest in the research of other parties where we believe it is likely to benefit our existing or future products. 

We have entered into collaboration agreements with a variety of industrial partners within the fields of radiation oncology and medical imaging to provide us with opportunities to accelerate our innovation capability and bring complimentary products and technologies to market. We continue to seek out new partnerships to complement our internal developments and implement our product strategies. 

Competition 

The medical device industry in general, and the non-invasive cancer treatment field in particular, are subject to intense and increasing competition and rapidly evolving technologies. Because our products often have long development and regulatory clearance and approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our products and technologies over well-established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technologies. Traditional surgery and other forms of minimally invasive procedures, brachytherapy, chemotherapy and other drugs remain alternatives to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. 

New product sales in this competitive market are primarily dominated by two companies: Elekta AB (Elekta) and Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (Varian). Some manufacturers of standard linac systems, including Varian and Elekta, have products that can be used in combination with body and/or head frame systems and image-guidance systems to perform both radiosurgical and radiotherapy procedures. 

Our other competitors include Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Mitsubishi), BrainLAB AG (BrainLAB), ViewRay Inc. (ViewRay), and other companies in the radiosurgical and radiation therapy markets. 

Furthermore, many government, academic and business entities are investing substantial resources in research and development of cancer treatments, including surgical approaches, radiation treatment, MRI-guided radiotherapy systems, proton therapy systems, drug treatment, gene therapy, and other approaches. Successful developments that result in new approaches for the treatment of cancer could reduce the attractiveness of our products or render them obsolete. 

Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position in current and future technologies. Rapid technological development may render the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their technologies obsolete. Many of our competitors have or may have greater corporate, financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and more experience in research and development than we have. We cannot assume that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete or less useful. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our competitive position also depends, among other things, on: 

&#149; Widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption of our products by the radiation oncology and cancer therapy markets; &#149; Innovations that improve the effectiveness and productivity of our systems' treatment processes and enable them to address emerging customer needs; &#149; Availability of reimbursement coverage from third-party payors (including insurance companies, governments, and/or others) for procedures performed using our systems; &#149; Published, peer-reviewed data supporting the efficacy and safety of our systems; &#149; Limiting the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; &#149; Limiting the time period and cost of regulatory approvals or clearances; &#149; The manufacture and delivery of our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predicting and controlling costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; &#149; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; &#149; The extent of our intellectual property protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; &#149; Securing sufficient capital resources to expand both our continued research and development, and sales and marketing efforts; and &#149; Obtaining and maintaining any necessary United States or foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. Our customers' equipment purchase considerations typically include reliability, treatment quality, service capabilities, patient throughput, price, payment terms and equipment supplier viability. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors on price and value based upon the technology offered by our treatment systems. We strive to provide a technologically superior product that covers substantially all aspects of radiation therapy to deliver precise treatments with high-quality clinical outcomes that meet or exceed customer expectations. 

In addition to competition from technologies performing similar functions as our treatment systems, competition also exists for the limited capital expenditure budgets of our customers. For example, our treatment systems may compete with other equipment required by a radiation therapy department for financing under the same capital expenditure budget, which is typically limited. A purchaser, such as a hospital or cancer treatment center, may be required to select between the two items of capital equipment. Our ability to compete may also be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are premium-priced systems due to their higher level of functionality and performance. 

US Reimbursement 

In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase capital equipment such as the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems generally rely on government and private third-party payors for reimbursement for the healthcare treatment and services they provide. Examples of these types of payors include Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans, and health maintenance organizations, which reimburse all or a portion of the cost of treatment, as well as related healthcare services. Reimbursement involves three components: coverage, coding and payment. 

Coverage 

There are currently no national coverage determinations in place under Medicare for CyberKnife or TomoTherapy treatment. Coverage criteria for treatment with CyberKnife and TomoTherapy is outlined in local determinations or, in the absence of a formal policy, treatment is covered as long as it is considered reasonable and necessary. The most common indications covered by Medicare in local coverage determinations for robotic radiosurgery are primary and metastatic tumors in the brain, spine, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, adrenal gland, prostate as well as other cancers that have failed previous treatment. Intensity modulated radiation therapy is generally covered for cancers of the brain, spine, head and neck, prostate, thoracic, abdominal and retroperitoneal regions, other cancers (e.g. breast) meeting certain criteria, and tumors requiring re-irradiation or where dose tolerance may be exceeded with conventional treatment. 

Commercial payor policies vary with most covering radiosurgery for tumors in the brain, spine, lung, and increasingly prostate. Other indications such as renal, liver, and pancreatic cancers are also covered by some national and local commercial payors. IMRT and 3D Conformal are typically covered by commercial payors for the indications covered by Medicare. 

Coding 

The codes that are used to report radiosurgery treatment delivery in 2015 for the hospital outpatient department are Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes 77372 and 77373 for single fraction intracranial radiosurgery and single fraction extracranial/multi-session radiosurgery/stereotactic body radiation therapy. For single session cranial SRS, CMS proposes to retain in 2016 the Comprehensive APC (C-APC) it implemented in 2015 for several services delivered on the day of treatment, but will also allow for billing of some ancillary services that will be tracked for two years. For freestanding centers, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has retained the robotic radiosurgery Healthcare Common Procedural Codes (HCPCs) G codes that are currently regionally priced by Medicare Contractors and has not proposed replacing them with the CPT codes 77372 and 77373, currently in use in the hospital outpatient setting. The nonrobotic SRS/SBRT codes 77372 and 77373 have also been maintained as payable codes in the freestanding site of service. 

In 2015, in the hospital outpatient department, the code historically used to bill for IMRT delivery, 77418, was replaced by two codes to designate simple and complex IMRT; CPT code 77385 for prostate, breast and physical compensator IMRT and 77386 for all other treatments. Prior to 2015, 3D 

Conformal treatment had typically been billed under multiple CPT codes; 77413 were used by hospitals to bill for TomoTherapy treatment. In 2015, the 3D conformal codes were replaced by codes to designate simple, intermediate and complex 3D-CRT. TomoTherapy is now reported under the complex 3D-CRT code 77413. In December 2015, the Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act stopped these codes and their associated payment rates from being implemented in the freestanding center setting until 2019. Until 2019, a series of temporary G codes will be used. We expect all valid delivery codes should be recognized by commercial payers. Other codes are used to report treatment planning, dosimetry, treatment management, and other procedures routinely performed for treating radiosurgery or radiotherapy patients. 

Payment 

The majority of procedures using the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are performed in the hospital outpatient department. Medicare payment for CyberKnife and TomoTherapy procedures delivered in the hospital outpatient setting is developed by CMS, which calculates rates based on costs submitted by hospitals to perform outpatient procedures. Every year, CMS reviews hospital cost data for outpatient procedures, including radiosurgery and radiotherapy, makes adjustments to rates for the following year, and publishes national unadjusted averages for all procedures eligible for payment in this site of service. In 2017, CMS proposes to track, and pay separately, certain ancillary in addition to the comprehensive APC for single session radiosurgery. After two years we expect CMS will likely repackage all services in the C-APC. The changes proposed for 2017, if implemented, would result in an approximate 3% increase in total technical services for single fraction intracranial SRS over 2016. For single fraction extracranial/multi session SRS/SBRT delivery code (77373), CMS proposes to reduce payment by 1% in 2017, however, when adding in ancillary codes no significant changes in total payment to hospitals are proposed for 2017. 

Payments for treatment with CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are also available in the freestanding center settings. In 2016 and proposed for 2017, the primary treatment delivery codes for robotic radiosurgery are carrier priced under Medicare and range from low payment to payment at parity with hospital outpatient departments to slightly above outpatient rates. TomoTherapy procedures are set by CMS and the American Medical Association nationally, with adjustments to account for geographic market variations. With the exception of a few ancillary codes that CMS has identified as potentially misvalued, no major cuts to payment will be made in 2017 as the 2015 Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act freeze payment at 2016 levels through 2018. Non robotic SRS/SBRT payment is also linked to 2016 levels which increased by 8% over 2015, primarily due to changes in practice and malpractice expense inputs. 

The federal government and Congress review and adjust rates annually, and from time to time consider various Medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services, including radiotherapy and radiosurgery, in hospitals and free-standing clinics. In the past, we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainties surrounding reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the United States. State government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state's Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. 

Foreign Reimbursement 

Internationally, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary from country to country and include single-payor, government-managed systems as well as systems in which private payors and government-managed systems exist side-by-side. In general, the process of obtaining coverage approvals has been slower outside of the United States. Our ability to achieve adoption of our treatment systems, 

and significant sales volume in international markets, will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for procedures performed using our products. 

Regulatory Matters 

Domestic Regulation 

Our products and software are medical devices subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern the following activities that we perform and will continue to perform to ensure medical products distributed domestically or exported internationally are safe and effective for their intended uses: 

&#149; Product design and development; &#149; Document and purchasing controls; &#149; Production and process controls; &#149; Labeling and packaging controls; &#149; Product storage; &#149; Recordkeeping; &#149; Servicing; &#149; Corrective and preventive action and complaint handling; &#149; Pre-market clearance or approval; &#149; Advertising and promotion; and &#149; Product sales and distribution. FDA pre-market clearance and approval requirements. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices deemed to pose lower risks are placed in either class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a pre-market notification requesting permission to commercially distribute the device, known as 510(k) clearance. Some low risk devices are exempted from this requirement. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risks, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are placed in class III, requiring pre-market approval. All of our current products are class II devices requiring 510(k) clearances. 

510(k) clearance pathway. When a 510(k) clearance is required, we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that our proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared and legally marketed 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of pre-market approval applications (PMA). By regulation, the FDA is required to clear or deny a 510(k) pre-market notification within 90 days of submission of the application. Clearance generally takes longer as the FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. 

In January 2002, we received 510(k) clearance for the TomoTherapy Hi-Art System intended to be used as an integrated system for the planning and delivery of IMRT for the treatment of cancer. In August 2008, we received 510(k) clearance for our TomoDirect System. In June 2016, we received 510(k) clearance for the Radixact Treatment Delivery Platform. We also received 510(k) clearance for our new treatment planning and data management systems, Accuray Precision Treatment Planning System and iDMS Data Management System. 

In July 1999, we received 510(k) clearance for the CyberKnife System for use in the head and neck regions of the body. In August 2001, we received 510(k) clearance for the CyberKnife System to provide treatment planning and image guided stereotactic radiosurgery and precision radiotherapy for lesions, tumors and conditions anywhere in the body where radiation treatment is indicated. In April 2002, we received 510(k) clearance for the Synchrony Motion Tracking System as an option to the CyberKnife System, intended to enable dynamic image guided stereotactic radiosurgery and precision radiotherapy of lesions, tumors and conditions that move under influence of respiration. In October 2012, we received 510(k) clearance for the InCise MLC with clearance from the FDA on July 1, 2015. 

Pre-market approval (PMA) pathway. A PMA must be submitted to the FDA if the device is not eligible for the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate reasonable evidence of the device's safety and efficacy to the FDA's satisfaction. Currently, no device we have developed and commercialized has required pre-market approval. 

Product modifications. After a device receives 510(k) clearance or a PMA approval, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a significant change in its intended use, will require a new clearance or approval. The FDA has issued draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. 

We have modified aspects of our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy families of products since receiving regulatory clearance, and we have applied for and obtained additional 510(k) clearances for these modifications when we determined such clearances were required. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with our determination not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, the FDA may require us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA could also require us to cease marketing and distribution and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval is obtained. Also, in these circumstances, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. During our fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, we submitted one 510(k) clearance notification for modifications made to the operation of the CyberKnife System and one 510(k) clearance notification for the TomoTherapy System. The initial CyberKnife submission was cleared on October 26, 2012 and the TomoTherapy submission was cleared on August 29, 2012. 

Pervasive and continuing regulation. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: 

&#149; Quality System Regulation (QSR), which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during product design and throughout the manufacturing process; &#149; Labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses; and &#149; Medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations, and these 

inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of some of our subcontractors. Our Sunnyvale facility, where we manufacture the CyberKnife Systems, was most recently inspected by the FDA in June 2015. The June 2015 inspection resulted in no observations. In addition, our Madison facility, where we manufacture the finished TomoTherapy and CyberKnife Systems, was most recently inspected by the FDA in July 2012. The July 2012 inspection resulted in no observations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with the QSR. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: 

&#149; Fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; &#149; Recall or seizure of our products; &#149; Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; &#149; Refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products or new intended uses; &#149; Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that are already granted; and &#149; Criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to require us to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device that we have manufactured or distributed. If any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Radiological health. Because our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems contain both laser and X-ray components, and because we assemble these components during manufacturing and service activities, we are also regulated under the Electronic Product Radiation Control Provisions of the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. This law requires laser and X-ray products to comply with regulations and applicable performance standards, and manufacturers of these products to certify in product labeling and reports to the FDA that their products comply with all such standards. The law also requires manufacturers to file new product reports, and to file annual reports and maintain manufacturing, testing and sales records, and report product defects. Various warning labels must be affixed. Assemblers of diagnostic X-ray systems are also required to certify in reports to the FDA, equipment purchasers, and where applicable, to state agencies responsible for radiation protection, that diagnostic and/or therapeutic X-ray systems they assemble meet applicable requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which can include injunctions, civil penalties, and the issuance of warning letters. 

Fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the adoption of new federal or state laws or regulations could adversely affect many of the arrangements we have with customers and physicians. In addition, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws or regulations would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Anti-kickback laws. Our operations are subject to broad and changing federal and state anti-kickback laws. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), is primarily responsible for enforcing the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and generally for identifying fraud and abuse activities affecting government programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing 

remuneration directly or indirectly to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging of a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. "Remuneration" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including such items as gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything of value at less than fair market value. 

Penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal fines of up to $25,000 and/or imprisonment for up to five years for each violation, civil fines of up to $50,000 and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not include comparable exceptions. 

The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations which set forth certain activities and business relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including, without limitation, certain investment interests, leases and personal services and management contracts. The failure of a particular activity to comply in all regards with the safe harbor regulations does not mean that the activity violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. 

The OIG has identified the following arrangements with purchasers and their agents as ones raising potential risk of violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute: 

&#149; Discount and free good arrangements that are not properly disclosed or accurately reported to federal healthcare programs; &#149; Product support services, including billing assistance, reimbursement consultation and other services specifically tied to support of the purchased product, offered in tandem with another service or program (such as a reimbursement guarantee) that confers a benefit to the purchaser; &#149; Educational grants conditioned in whole or in part on the purchase of equipment, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; &#149; Research funding arrangements, particularly post-marketing research activities, that are linked directly or indirectly to the purchase of products, or otherwise inappropriately influenced by sales and marketing considerations; and &#149; Other offers of remuneration to purchasers that are expressly or impliedly related to a sale or sales volume, such as "prebates" and "upfront payments," other free or reduced-price goods or services, and payments to cover costs of "converting" from a competitor's products, particularly where the selection criteria for such offers vary with the volume or value of business generated. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who are in a position to generate business for us. For example, physicians who own our stock also provide medical advisory and other consulting or collaboration services. Similarly, we have a variety of different types of arrangements with our customers. In the case of our former placement program, certain services and upgrades were provided without additional charge based on procedure volume. In the past, we have also provided loans to our customers. We also provide research or educational grants to customers to support customer studies related to, among other things, our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. 

If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar government regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we or our officers may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including significant civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The impact of any such violation may lead to curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that some of these laws are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. If an enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition could be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. 

Transparency laws. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act (the Sunshine Act), which was enacted by Congress as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on December 14, 2011, requires each applicable manufacturer, which includes medical device companies such as Accuray, to track and report to the federal government on an annual basis all payments and other transfers of value from such applicable manufacturer to U.S. licensed physicians and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership of such applicable manufacturer's equity, in each case subject to certain statutory exceptions. Such data will be made available by the government on a publicly searchable website. Failure to comply with the data collection and reporting obligations imposed by the Sunshine Act can result in civil monetary penalties ranging from $1,000 to $10,000 for each payment or other transfer of value that is not reported (up to a maximum of $150,000 per reporting period) and from $10,000 to $100,000 for each knowing failure to report (up to a maximum of $1 million per reporting period). In addition, we are subject to similar state and foreign laws related to the tracking and reporting of payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals. These laws require or will require that we implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report such payments and transfers of value. Failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. 

Physician self-referral laws. We are also subject to federal and state physician self-referral laws. The federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, commonly known as the Stark Law, prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain "designated health services" if the physician or an immediate family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral. 

In addition, in July 2008, CMS issued a final rule implementing significant amendments to the regulations under the Stark Law. The final rule, which was effective October 1, 2009, imposes additional limitations on the ability of physicians to refer patients to medical facilities in which the physician or an immediate family member has an ownership interest for treatment. Among other things, the rule provides that leases of equipment between physician owners that may refer patients and hospitals must be on a fixed rate, rather than a per use basis. Prior to enactment of the final rule, physician owned entities had increasingly become involved in the acquisition of medical technologies, including the CyberKnife System. In many cases, these entities entered into arrangements with hospitals that billed Medicare for the furnishing of medical services, and the physician owners were among the physicians who referred patients to the entity for services. The rule limits these arrangements and could require the restructuring of existing arrangements between physicians owned entities and hospitals and could discourage physicians from participating in the acquisition and ownership of medical 

technologies. The final rule also prohibits percentage-based compensation in equipment leases. As a result of the finalization of these regulations, some existing CyberKnife System operators have modified or restructured their corporate or organizational structures. In addition, certain customers that planned to open CyberKnife centers in the United States involving physician ownership have restructured their legal ownership structure. Certain entities were not able to establish viable models for CyberKnife System operation and therefore canceled their CyberKnife System purchase agreements. Accordingly, these regulations have resulted in cancellations of CyberKnife System purchase agreements and could also reduce the attractiveness of medical technology acquisitions, including CyberKnife System purchases, by physician-owned joint ventures or similar entities. As a result, these regulations have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our product sales and therefore on our business and results of operations. 

A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law's referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or scheme. In addition, any person who presents or causes to be presented a claim to the Medicare or Medicaid programs in violations of the Stark Law is subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per bill submission, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Various states have corollary laws to the Stark Law, including laws that require physicians to disclose any financial interest they may have with a healthcare provider to their patients when referring patients to that provider. Both the scope and exceptions for such laws vary from state to state. 

Federal False Claims Act. The federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as "qui tam" actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, sometimes known as "relators" or, more commonly, as "whistleblowers," may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We have retained the services of a reimbursement consultant, for which we pay certain consulting fees, to provide us and facilities that have purchased a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, with general reimbursement advice. While we believe this will assist our customers in filing proper claims for reimbursement, and even though such consultants do not submit claims on behalf of our customers, the fact that we provide these consultant services could expose us to additional scrutiny and possible liability in the event one of our customers is investigated and determined to be in violation of any of these laws. 

HIPAA. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. 

As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including privacy and security 

standards required under HIPAA. The HIPAA privacy standard was amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. HITECH significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities under which we are considered to be a "business associate" under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Furthermore, as of February 2010, business associates are now directly subject to regulations under HIPAA, including a new enforcement scheme, criminal and civil penalties for certain violations, and inspection requirements. 

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The United States and foreign government regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, including increased United States government oversight and enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Whenever the United States or another foreign governmental authority concludes that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, such governmental authority can impose fines, delay or suspend regulatory clearances, institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil penalties against us or our officers or employees, and can recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. Moreover, governmental authorities can ban or request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device or product we manufacture or distribute. We are also potentially subject to the UK Bribery Act, which could also lead to the imposition of civil and criminal fines. Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

International Regulation 

International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain clearance or approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may be different. 

The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the European Union and the three additional member states of the European Economic Area (EEA), which have adopted similar laws and regulations with respect to medical devices. The European Union has adopted numerous directives and the European Committee for Standardization has promulgated standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Devices that comply with the requirements of the relevant directive will be entitled to bear CE conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directives and, accordingly, may be commercially distributed throughout the member states of the EEA. 

The method of assessing conformity to applicable standards and directives depends on the type and class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an independent and neutral institution appointed by a European Union member state to conduct the conformity assessment. This relevant assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer's quality system (currently ISO 13485), provisions of the Medical Devices Directive, and specific testing of the manufacturer's device. In September 2002 and February 2005, our and TomoTherapy's facilities, respectively, were awarded the ISO 13485 certification, which replaces the ISO 9001 and EN 46001 standards, which have been subsequently maintained through periodic assessments, in accordance with the expiration dates of the standards, and 

we are currently authorized to affix the CE mark to our products, allowing us to sell our products throughout the European Economic Area. 

We are also currently subject to regulations in Japan. Under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law in Japan, a pre-market approval necessary to sell, market and import a product (Shonin), must be obtained from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW), for our products. A Japanese distributor received the first government approval to market the CyberKnife System from MHLW in November 1996. In December 2003, we received approval from the MHLW to market the CyberKnife System in Japan for clinical applications in the head and neck, and a new distributor, Chiyoda Technology Corporation, was appointed to distribute the CyberKnife System. In June 2008, we received approval from the MHLW to market the CyberKnife System for treatments throughout the body where radiation treatment is indicated. On June 30, 2009, our subsidiary, Accuray Japan KK, became the Marketing Authorization Holder in Japan, which allowed the Company to directly sell our products in Japan. In August 2010, we received Shonin approval from MHLW to market the CyberKnife G4 System to treat tumors non-invasively anywhere in the body, inclusive of head and neck. Hi- Art Co. Ltd., the original distributor for TomoTherapy in Japan, received the Shonin approval from the MHLW to market the TomoTherapy System for use as an integrated system for the planning and delivery of IMR for the treatment of cancer in January 2006. The Shonin was transferred to another distributor, Hitachi Medical Corporation in January 2009. During September 2011, Hitachi Medical Corporation received a Shonin approval for the marketing of the TomoHD model. In July 2012, we took over the Shonins and the service operations of the TomoTherapy Systems in Japan from Hitachi Medical Corporation. In March 2014, we received Shonin approval from MHLW for CyberKnife M6 Series as well as the InCise MLC. 

We are subject to additional regulations in other foreign countries, including, but not limited to, Canada, Taiwan, China, Korea, and Russia in order to sell our products. We intend that either we or our distributors will receive any necessary approvals or clearance prior to marketing our products in those international markets. 

State Certificate of Need Laws 

In some states, a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval is required prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items or the provision of new services. These laws generally require appropriate state agency determination of public need and approval prior to the acquisition of such capital items or addition of new services. Certificate of need regulations may preclude our customers from acquiring one of our systems, and from performing stereotactic radiosurgery procedures using one of our systems. Several of our prospective customers currently are involved in appeals of certificate of need determinations. If these appeals are not resolved in favor of these prospective customers, they may be precluded from purchasing and/or performing services using one of our systems. Certificate of need laws are the subject of continuing legislative activity, and a significant increase in the number of states regulating the acquisition and use of one of our systems through certificate of need or similar programs could adversely affect us. 

Backlog 

For a discussion of the Company's fiscal 2016 backlog, please refer to the section entitled "Backlog," in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we had 959 employees worldwide. None of the employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment related work stoppages and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. 

Geographic Information 

For financial reporting purposes, net sales and long-lived assets attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in Note 15, Segment Disclosure, to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Available Information 

Our main corporate website address is www.accuray.com . We make available on this web site, free of charge, copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our proxy statements, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . In addition, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Disclosure Committee of our Board of Directors are also available on the investor relations page of our website. The contents of our web site are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file or furnish, and any references to our web site are intended to be textual references only. 

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the "forward-looking" statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in "forward- looking" statements. 

