 Item 1. Business 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Ares is a leading global alternative asset manager with approximately $94 billion of assets under management and approximately 870 employees in over 15 offices across the United States, Europe and Asia. We offer our investors a range of investment strategies and seek to deliver attractive performance to a growing investor base that includes approximately 680 direct institutional relationships and a significant retail investor base across our publicly traded and sub &#8209;advised funds. Since our inception in 1997, we have adhered to a disciplined investment philosophy that focuses on delivering strong risk &#8209;adjusted investment returns through market cycles. Ares believes each of its distinct but complementary investment groups, which as of December 31, 2015 were organized in four business lines comprised of Tradable Credit, Direct Lending, Private Equity and Real Estate, is a market leader based on assets under management and investment performance. In February 2016, we announced the combination of the Tradable Credit and Direct Lending Groups to form the Credit Group and now operate through three business lines. We believe we have created value for our stakeholders not only through our investment performance but also by expanding our product offering, enhancing our distribution channels, increasing our global presence, investing in our non &#8209;investment functions, securing strategic partnerships and completing accretive acquisitions and portfolio purchases. 

As shown in the chart below, over the past five and ten years, our assets under management have achieved a compound annual growth rate (&#x201C;CAGR&#x201D;) of 17% and 28%, respectively. Our AUM has grown to approximately $94 billion as of December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 billion a decade earlier. 

We have an established track record of delivering strong risk &#8209;adjusted returns through market cycles. We believe our consistent and strong performance in a broad range of alternative assets has been shaped by several distinguishing features of our platform: 

&#xB7; 

Robust Sourcing Model: our investment professionals&#x2019; local market presence and ability to effectively cross &#8209;source for other investment groups generates a robust pipeline of high &#8209;quality investment opportunities across our platform. 

&#xB7; 

Multi &#8209;Asset Class Expertise and Flexible Capital: our proficiency at evaluating every level of the capital structure, from senior debt to common equity, across companies, structured assets, power and energy assets, and real estate projects enables us to effectively assess relative value. This proficiency is complemented by our flexibility in deploying capital in a range of structures and different market environments to maximize risk &#8209;adjusted returns. 

&#xB7; 

Differentiated Market Intelligence: our proprietary research on over 50 industries and insights from a broad, global investment portfolio enable us to more effectively diligence and structure our products and investments. 

&#xB7; 

Consistent and Replicable Investment Approach: we believe our rigorous, credit &#8209;oriented investment approach across each of our investment groups is a key contributor to our strong investment performance and ability to expand our product offering. 

&#xB7; 

Talented and Committed Professionals: we attract, develop and retain highly accomplished investment professionals who not only demonstrate deep and broad investment expertise but also have a strong sense of commitment to our firm. 

&#xB7; 

Collaborative Culture: we share ideas, relationships and information across our investment groups, which enables us to more effectively source, evaluate and manage investments. 

Integrated Investment Platform 

We operate our increasingly diversified and global firm as an integrated investment platform with a collaborative culture that emphasizes sharing of knowledge and expertise. We believe the exchange of information enhances our ability to analyze investments, deploy capital and improve the performance of our funds and portfolio companies. Through collaboration, we drive value by leveraging our capital markets relationships and access to deal flow. The management of our operating businesses is currently overseen by our Management Committee, which is comprised of our executive officers and other heads of various investment and operating groups , and ultimately by our Co-Founders. The Management Committee meets bi-weekly to discuss asset deployment, strategy and fundraising. Additionally, we have a Global Markets Committee comprised of over 30 senior investment professionals from various investment groups around the world who meet monthly to discuss market trends and issues affecting specific investment groups. Within this framework, we have established deep and sophisticated independent research capabilities in over 50 industries and insights from active investments in over 1,100 companies, 525 structured assets and 155 properties. Further, our extensive network of investment professionals includes local and geographically positioned individuals with the knowledge, experience and relationships that enable them to identify and take advantage of a wide range of investment opportunities. These professionals are supported by a highly sophisticated operations management team. We believe this broad and deep platform and our operational infrastructure provide us with a scalable foundation to expand our product offering, geographic scope and profitability. 

Breadth, Depth and Tenure of our Senior Management 

Ares was built upon the fundamental principle that each of our distinct but complementary investment groups benefits from being part of our broader platform. We believe that our strong performance, consistent growth and high talent retention through economic cycles is due largely to the effective application of this principle across our broad 

organization of approximately 870 employees. We do not have a centralized investment committee and instead our investment committees are structured with overlapping membership from different investment groups to ensure consistency of approach. Each of our investment groups is led by its own deep leadership team of highly accomplished investment professionals, who average over 23 years of experience managing investments in, advising, underwriting and restructuring companies. While primarily focused on managing strategies within their own investment group, these senior professionals are integrated within our platform through economic, cultural and structural measures. Our senior professionals have the opportunity to participate in the incentive programs of multiple investment groups to reward collaboration across our investment activities. This collaboration takes place on a daily basis but is formally promoted through sophisticated internal systems and widely attended weekly or monthly meetings. 

2015 Highlights 

Fundraising 

In 2015, we raised approximately $23.0 billion in gross new capital for more than 60 different funds. Of the $23.0 billion, approximately $18.5 billion was raised directly from 191 institutional investors (122 existing and 69 new to Ares) and approximately $4.6 billion was raised through intermediaries. 

&#xB7; 

In our Tradable Credit Group, we closed five new CLOs totaling $2.9 billion, and raised $2.4 billion of gross capital commitments across a variety of alternative credit funds and $1.0 billion of gross new capital commitments in long &#8209;only funds. 

&#xB7; 

In our Direct Lending Group, we raised $2.8 billion for our third commingled European Direct Lending fund, $4.4 billion of gross capital in other U.S. and European Direct Lending funds and $1.5 billion in aggregate new debt and equity commitments for ARCC, our publicly traded business development company, and its affiliated funds and vehicles. 

&#xB7; 

In our Private Equity Group, we raised $5.7 billion of gross new capital commitments in our initial closing for our fifth North American/European flexible capital private equity fund and $371 million of gross new capital commitments in our initial closing for our fifth power private equity fund. Fundraising for both funds has continued into 2016. 

&#xB7; 

In our Real Estate Group, we raised $377 million of gross new capital commitments for our second European value add real estate private equity fund, $357 million for our second U.S. opportunistic real estate private equity fund and $378 million in other European real estate private equity accounts. 

Capital Deployment 

We took advantage of our diverse global platform to invest more than $20.5 billion globally in 2015, including $7.2 billion in U.S. direct lending, $4.1 billion in our long &#8209;only credit strategy, $2.6 billion in European direct lending, $1.9 billion in private equity (including $1.0 billion in corporate private equity and $0.9 billion in power private equity), $1.2 billion in real estate equity and $785 million in real estate debt. Of the $20.5 billion invested, $9.0 billion was tied to our drawdown funds, up from $4.3 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014. Of the $9.0 billion, $3.3 billion was driven by investments in European and U.S. direct lending, $2.4 billion in various tradable credit strategies, $1.7 billion in corporate and power private equity and $1.6 billion in real estate debt and equity strategies. 

Strategic Acquisitions 

In 2015, we expanded the depth and breadth of our Direct Lending and Private Equity Groups through two strategic and complementary acquisitions. 

Energy Investor Funds 

On January 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Energy Investors Funds (&#x201C;EIF&#x201D;), a leading asset manager in the power and energy industry with approximately $4.6 billion of AUM across four commingled, private equity funds and related co &#8209;investment vehicles. The acquisition expands our Private Equity Group&#x2019;s capabilities into power generation, midstream energy infrastructure and transmission, a complementary and strategically important asset class in the alternative sector. The team that joined Ares from EIF includes approximately 40 professionals. 

First Capital Holdings 

In the second quarter of 2015, ACF Finco I L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of Ares Commercial Finance L.P. (&#x201C;ACF&#x201D;), a fund within the Direct Lending Group, acquired the asset-based loan portfolio from First Capital Holdings, Inc. (&#x201C;First Capital&#x201D;), a leading specialty finance company that provides asset-based loans. In conjunction with the transaction, we hired 30 commercial finance professionals from First Capital, expanding our commercial finance team to 49 professionals in 5 offices. 

Investment Groups 

Each of our investment groups employs a disciplined, credit &#8209;oriented investment philosophy and is managed by a seasoned leadership team of senior professionals with extensive experience investing in, advising, underwriting and restructuring companies, power and energy assets, or real estate properties. In the first quarter of 2016, we announced the combination of our Tradable Credit and Direct Lending Groups to form a single segment called the Ares Credit Group to manage Ares&#x2019; broad array of credit products in a more effective manner. 

Tradable Credit Group 

Our Tradable Credit Group is a leading participant in the tradable, non &#8209;investment grade corporate credit markets, with approximately $30 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2015. The group manages various types of investment funds, ranging from commingled and separately managed accounts for institutional investors to publicly traded vehicles and sub &#8209;advised funds for retail investors. A key to our performance is our robust research team of approximately 40 analysts that support our nearly 20 highly respected portfolio managers and traders. Based in Los Angeles, London, and New York, our analysts have on average over ten years of experience and are organized by industry 

rather than asset class, which we believe enables them to effectively assess relative value across the capital structure within their areas of expertise, from traditional corporate credit to alternative credit. While each of the group&#x2019;s 80 funds is tailored to specific investment objectives, mandates can be broadly categorized between long &#8209;only credit and alternative credit investment strategies. 

Tradable Credit Group long &#8209;only credit: Our long &#8209;only investment funds primarily seek to outperform the corresponding performing bank loan or high-yield market indices. This strategy encompasses senior bank loans (principally first lien and secured debt), second lien loans, high yield bonds and unsecured loans. 

Primary areas of focus for our Tradable Credit Group&#x2019;s long &#8209;only credit teams include: 

&#xB7; 

Leveraged Loans: Our leveraged loans strategy focuses on relative value and principal preservation within the non &#8209;investment grade credit markets. We focus on evaluating individual credit opportunities related primarily to non &#8209;investment grade senior secured loans. We primarily target first lien secured debt, with a secondary focus on second lien loans, mezzanine loans, high yield bonds and unsecured loans. 

&#xB7; 

High Yield Bonds: Our high yield bonds strategy employs a value &#8209;driven philosophy, utilizing fundamental research to identify non &#8209;investment grade corporate issuers. We primarily target high yield bonds, with a secondary focus on corporate loans, mezzanine loans, debtor in possession loans and unsecured loans. 

Tradable Credit Group alternative credit: Our alternative credit investment funds primarily seek to deliver compelling absolute risk &#8209;adjusted returns relative to publicly traded stocks, hedge funds, distressed funds, bank loans, high yield bonds or other investment types. This strategy encompasses dynamic credit and credit opportunities funds, both of which allocate capital across senior secured debt, unsecured debt, stressed/distressed debt and structured assets, subject to our investment professionals&#x2019; views of relative value at different points of an economic cycle. Our special situations funds capitalize on current and anticipated stressed and distressed credit opportunities focusing on debtor &#8209;in &#8209;possession loans, exit and rescue financings, post &#8209;reorganization equities, self &#8209;originated investments in specialty finance companies, directly negotiated purchases of non &#8209;performing or non &#8209;core assets divested by financial institutions, collateralized loan obligation vehicles and global structured assets. 

Primary areas of focus for our Tradable Credit Group&#x2019;s alternative credit teams include: 

&#xB7; 

Credit Opportunities: Our credit opportunities strategy has an event &#8209;oriented credit mandate that seeks to generate attractive risk &#8209;adjusted returns across market cycles by capitalizing on market inefficiencies and relative value opportunities in the non &#8209;investment grade corporate credit market. We principally invest or take short positions in U.S. and European debt securities across the capital structure, including opportunistic liquid credit, special situations and structured products. Our &#x201C;all weather&#x201D; strategy seeks to dynamically manage duration, which is critical to realizing attractive performance during various interest rate environments. 

&#xB7; 

Global Special Situations: Our global special situations strategy capitalizes on dislocated assets by flexibly deploying capital across multiple asset classes. We employ our deep credit expertise, proprietary research and robust sourcing model to capitalize on current market trends. This opportunistic approach allows us to invest across a broad spectrum of investments, including corporate debt, rescue capital, specialty finance, post &#8209;reorganization securities and non &#8209;performing portfolios, corporate and consumer asset &#8209;backed products and across the capital structure of collateralized loan obligation vehicles. 

The following table presents the Tradable Credit Group&#x2019;s AUM, FEAUM and number of funds as of December 31, 2015 per investment strategy (dollars in billions). 

Number of 

AUM 

FEAUM 

Funds 

Long &#8209; only credit 

$ 

20.9 

$ 

20.5 

Alternative credit 

8.7 

6.2 

Tradable Credit Group 

$ 

29.6 

$ 

26.7 

Direct Lending Group 

Our Direct Lending Group is one of the largest self &#8209;originating direct lenders to the U.S. and European markets, with approximately $33 billion of assets under management across approximately 45 funds or investment vehicles as of December 31, 2015. Our Direct Lending Group has a multi &#8209;channel origination strategy designed to address a broad set of investment opportunities in the middle market. We focus on being the lead or sole lender to our portfolio companies, which we believe allows us to exert greater influence over deal terms, capital structure, documentation, fees and pricing, while at the same time securing our position as a preferred source of financing for our transaction partners. The group maintains a flexible investment strategy, with the capability to invest in revolving credit facilities, first and second lien senior loans, mezzanine debt and non &#8209;control equity co &#8209;investments in middle market companies, power generation projects and early stage and emerging growth companies backed by venture capital firms. We manage various types of funds within our U.S. and European Direct Lending teams that include commingled funds, separately managed accounts for large institutional investors seeking tailored investment solutions and joint venture lending programs. 

U.S. Direct Lending: Our U.S. team is comprised of approximately 105 investment professionals in six offices. Our team maintains an active dialogue with more than 400 financial sponsors and provides a wide range of financing solutions to middle &#8209;market companies that typically range from $10 to $100 million in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (&#x201C;EBITDA&#x201D;). As of December 31, 2015, our U.S. Direct Lending team and its affiliates advised 30 funds totaling, in aggregate, approximately $24.3 billion in AUM. Our U.S. Direct Lending team manages corporate lending activities primarily through our inaugural vehicle and publicly traded business development company, ARCC. 

Primary areas of focus for our U.S. Direct Lending teams include: 

Ares Capital Corporation: ARCC is a leading specialty finance company that provides one-stop debt and equity financing solutions to U.S. middle market companies, venture capital backed businesses and power generation projects. As of December 31, 2015, ARCC was the largest business development company by total assets. 

ARCC and General Electric Capital Corporation and GE Global Sponsor Finance LLC (collectively, "GE") have co-invested in first lien senior secured loans of middle market companies through the Senior Secured Loan Fund LLC (the &#x201C;SSLP&#x201D;). As of December 31, 2015, ARCC and GE had agreed to make capital available to the SSLP of $8.7 billion, of which approximately $2.0 billion was funded by ARCC. In August 2015, GE completed the sale of its U.S. Sponsor Finance business, through which GE had participated with ARCC in the SSLP, to Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. This sale excluded GE&#x2019;s interest in the SSLP, and ARCC and GE continue to operate the SSLP. ARCC and GE no longer have an obligation to present senior secured lending investment opportunities to the SSLP and since June 30, 2015, the SSLP has not made any investments related to new portfolio companies. We anticipate that no new investments will be made by the SSLP; however, ARCC and GE may provide capital to support the SSLP&#x2019;s funding of existing commitments and other amounts to the SSLP&#x2019;s portfolio companies. 

In December 2015, ARCC established a new joint venture with Varagon Capital Partners to make certain first lien senior secured loans, including certain stretch senior and unitranche loans, to U.S. middle-market companies. Varagon was formed in 2013 as a lending platform by American International Group, Inc. (NYSE:AIG) and other partners. The new joint venture is called the Senior Direct Lending Program (the &#x201C;SDLP&#x201D;). During the year ended December 31, 2015, ARCC entered into an agreement with the SDLP to sell certain of its investments to the SDLP at a 

mutually agreed upon price on a future date. 

Other U.S. funds: Outside of ARCC and its controlled affiliates, the U.S. Direct Lending Group also generates fees from other funds, including Ares Commercial Finance, which makes asset &#8209;based and cash flow loans to middle &#8209;market companies, as well as asset &#8209;based loans and debt investments in specialty finance companies and separately managed accounts for large institutional investors. AUM for these other U.S. Direct Lending Group funds totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 . 

European Direct Lending: Our European team is comprised of approximately 35 investment professionals in five offices. Our team covers approximately 160 financial sponsors and is one of the most significant participants in the European middle &#8209;market. We provide a wide range of financing opportunities to middle &#8209;market companies that typically range from &#x20AC;10 to &#x20AC;75 million in EBITDA. As of December 31, 2015, our European Direct Lending Group advised 16 commingled funds and managed accounts, aggregating approximately $8.4 billion in AUM . 

The following table presents the Direct Lending Group&#x2019;s AUM, FEAUM and number of funds as of December 31, 2015 (dollars in billions): 

Number of 

AUM 

FEAUM 

Funds 

Ares Capital Corporation 

$ 

10.5 

$ 

9.4 

Senior Secured Loan Fund LLC 

6.7 

6.5 

Funds managed by and affiliated with IHAM 

3.2 

2.7 

Other U.S. funds 

3.9 

0.8 

European funds 

8.4 

4.1 

Direct Lending Group 

$ 

32.6 

$ 

23.4 

Private Equity Group 

Our Private Equity Group has achieved compelling investment returns for a loyal and growing group of high profile limited partners and as of December 31, 2015 had approximately $21 billion of assets under management. Our Private Equity Group broadly categorizes its investment activities into three strategies: North American/European flexible capital, U.S. power and energy assets and China growth capital. Our private equity professionals have a demonstrated ability to deploy flexible capital, which allows them to stay both active and disciplined in various market environments. The group&#x2019;s activities are managed by three dedicated investment teams in North America, Europe and China. 

&#xB7; 

North America/Europe flexible capital: Certain of our senior private equity professionals have been working together since 1990 and raised our first private equity fund in 2003. Our team has grown to approximately 40 investment professionals based in Los Angeles, London and Chicago. We pursue four principal transactions types: prudently leveraged control buyouts, growth equity, rescue/deleveraging capital and distressed buyouts/discounted debt accumulation. Our investment professionals target a variety of investment opportunities making equity commitments generally in the $100 to $500 million range. 

&#xB7; 

U.S. power &amp; energy assets: On January 1, 2015, we acquired EIF, an experienced private equity fund manager with an over 25 &#8209;year track record of investing in the independent power industry. We believe there are significant investment opportunities for us in this sector as the United States replaces its aging infrastructure and builds new assets to meet capacity needs over the coming decades. Our team of approximately 20 investment professionals targets U.S. energy infrastructure &#8209;related assets across the power generation, transmission and midstream sectors, with equity commitments typically in the $75 to $300 million range. 

&#xB7; 

China growth capital: In 2010, we expanded our private equity business into Asia and now have offices in Shanghai, Chengdu and Hong Kong. We believe the Chinese market represents an attractive opportunity for 

us, particularly given our private equity expertise and the strength of our global platform. Our team of ten investment professionals targets primarily minority growth equity investments generally in the $25 to $50 million range. 

The following table presents the Private Equity Group&#x2019;s AUM, FEAUM and number of funds as of December 31, 2015 (dollars in billions). 

Number of 

AUM 

FEAUM 

Funds 

North America/Europe flexible capital 

$ 

15.7 

$ 

6.9 

U.S. power &amp; energy assets 

5.2 

4.5 

China growth capital 

0.2 

0.1 

Private Equity Group funds 

$ 

21.1 

$ 

11.4 

Real Estate Group 

Our Real Estate Group manages comprehensive public and private equity and debt strategies, with approximately $10 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2015. With our experienced team, along with our expansive network of relationships, our Real Estate Group capitalizes on opportunities across both real estate equity and debt investing. Our equity investments focus on implementing hands &#8209;on value creation initiatives to mismanaged and capital &#8209;starved assets, as well as new development, ultimately selling stabilized assets back into the market. Our debt strategies leverage the Real Estate Group&#x2019;s diverse sources of capital to directly originate and manage commercial mortgage investments on properties that range from stabilized to requiring hands &#8209;on value creation. The Real Estate Group has achieved significant scale in a short period of time through various acquisitions and successful fundraising efforts. Today, the group provides investors access to its capabilities through several vehicles: U.S. and European real estate private equity commingled funds, real estate equity and debt separately managed accounts and a publicly traded commercial mortgage REIT, ACRE. The group&#x2019;s activities are managed by dedicated equity and debt teams in the U.S. and Europe. 

Real Estate Equity: Our real estate equity team, with approximately 50 investment professionals across six offices, has extensive private equity experience in the United States and Europe. Our team primarily invests in new developments and the repositioning of assets, with a focus on control or majority &#8209;control investments primarily in the United States and Western Europe. As of December 31, 2015, our Real Estate equity team advised 46 investment vehicles totaling, in aggregate, approximately $7.7 billion in AUM . 

Primary areas of focus for our Real Estate Group equity teams include: 

&#xB7; 

Real Estate Equity Value &#8209;Add Strategy: Our U.S. and European value &#8209;add funds focus on undermanaged and under &#8209;funded assets, seeking to create value by buying assets at attractive valuations as well as through active asset management of income &#8209;producing property types, including multifamily, retail, office, hotel and industrial properties across the United States and Western Europe. 

&#xB7; 

Real Estate Equity Opportunistic Strategy: Our U.S. and European opportunistic real estate funds capitalize on increased investor demand for developed and stabilized assets by focusing on manufacturing core assets through development, redevelopment and fixing distressed capital structures across all major property types including multifamily, hotel, office, retail and industrial properties across the United States and Europe. 

Real Estate Debt: Our real estate debt team h as over 20 investment professionals, supported by approximately 100 professionals from ACRE Capital LLC (&#x201C;ACRE Capital&#x201D;), a wholly owned subsidiary of ACRE, across six offices. Our team directly originates and invests in a wide range of self &#8209;originated financing opportunities for middle &#8209;market owners and operators of commercial real estate. We primarily target investments in the United States and are expanding our presence into Western Europe. As of December 31, 2015, our Real Estate Group debt team advised three investment vehicles totaling, in the aggregate, approximately $2.6 billion in AUM. We also service a portfolio of over $6 billion in mortgage loans principally through ACRE Capital. 

The following table presents the Real Estate Group&#x2019;s AUM and number of funds as of December 31, 2015 per investment strategy (dollars in billions). 

Number of 

AUM 

FEAUM 

Funds 

U.S. equity funds 

$ 

4.6 

$ 

3.2 

European equity funds 

3.1 

2.6 

Debt funds 

2.6 

1.0 

Real Estate Group 

$ 

10.3 

$ 

6.8 

Product Offering 

To meet investors&#x2019; growing demand for alternative asset investments, we manage investments in an increasingly comprehensive range of funds across a spectrum of compelling and complementary strategies. We have demonstrated an ability to consistently generate attractive and differentiated investment returns across these investment strategies and through various market environments. We believe the breadth of our product offering, our expertise in various investment strategies and our proficiency in attracting and satisfying our growing institutional and retail client base has enabled and will continue to enable us to increase our assets under management across each of our investment groups in a balanced manner. Our fundraising efforts historically have been spread across investment strategies and have not been dependent on the success of any one strategy. We offer the following strategies for our investors : 

Target Net Returns at December 2015(1) 

Tradable Credit 

Bank Loans(2) 

Benchmark Outperformance 

High Yield Bonds(2) 

Benchmark Outperformance 

Dynamic Credit 

L+500 - 600bps 

Credit Opportunities(3) 

8 - 12% 

Special Situations 

15 - 20% 

Direct Lending 

U.S. Direct Lending(3) 

5 - 15% 

European Direct Lending(3) 

5 - 15% 

Private Equity 

North American/Euro Flexible Capital 

18 - 22% 

U.S. Power and Energy Assets 

15 - 17% 

China Growth Capital 

22 - 25% 

Real Estate 

Real Estate Debt(3) 

5 - 12% 

Real Estate Equity 

12 - 18% 

(1) 

Target returns are shown for illustrative purposes only after the effect of any management and performance fees. No assurance can be made that targeted returns will be achieved and actual returns may differ materially. An investment in any of the mandates is subject to the execution of definitive subscription and investment documentation for the applicable funds. 

(2) 

Our funds employing bank loan and high yield strategies are typically benchmarked against the Credit Suisse Leveraged Loan Index and the BofA Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Constrained Index, respectively. Certain of our funds are not benchmarked against any particular index due to fund &#8209;specific portfolio constraints. 

(3) 

Comprised of our funds with and without leverage. 

Investor Base and Fundraising 

Our diverse investor base includes direct institutional relationships and a significant number of retail investors. Our high &#8209;quality institutional investor base includes large pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, banks and insurance companies and we have grown the number of these relationships from approximately 200 in 2011 to approximately 680 in 2015 . As of December 31, 2015, 61% of our approximately $94 billion in AUM was attributable to our direct institutional relationships. 

As of December 31, 2015, our $94 billion of AUM was divided by channel, client type and geographic origin as follows: 

YE 2015 

AUM by Client Type 

AUM 

% 

($ millions) 

Direct Institutional 

Pension 

24,694 

26.4 % 

Sovereign Wealth Fund 

8,861 

9.5 % 

Insurance 

7,649 

8.2 % 

Bank/Private Bank 

6,863 

7.3 % 

Investment Manager 

2,594 

2.8 % 

Endowment 

1,873 

2.0 % 

Other 

3,469 

3.7 % 

Ares and its Affiliates 

1,474 

1.6 % 

Total Direct Institutional 

57,477 

61.4 % 

Public Entities and Related 

22,422 

23.9 % 

Institutional Intermediaries 

13,733 

14.7 % 

Total 

$ 

93,632 

100 % 

YE 2015 

Direct Institutional AUM by Geography 

AUM 

% 

($ millions) 

North America 

33,502 

58.3 % 

Europe 

11,988 

20.9 % 

Asia &amp; Australia 

6,768 

11.8 % 

Middle East 

5,044 

8.8 % 

Other 

0.3 % 

Total 

$ 

57,477 

100 % 

Our investor base is highly diversified across three primary categories: direct institutional (61%), public entities and related (24%) and institutional intermediated (15%). Our investors are located around the world with 58% in North America, 21% in Europe and 21% in other geographies . 

As of December 31, 2015, approximately 42% of our investors were committed to more than one fund, and approximately 38% were committed to between two and five funds, an increase from 24% and 22%, respectively, from December 31, 2011. We believe that the growing number of multi &#8209;fund investors demonstrates our investors&#x2019; satisfaction with our performance, our disciplined management of their capital and our diverse product offering. Their loyalty has facilitated the growth of our existing businesses and we believe improves our ability to raise new funds and successor funds in existing strategies in the future. 

Institutional investors are demonstrating a growing interest in separately managed accounts (&#x201C;SMAs&#x201D;) , which include contractual arrangements and single investor vehicles, because these accounts can provide investors with greater levels of transparency, liquidity and control over their investments as compared to more traditional commingled funds. As such, we expect our AUM that is managed through SMAs to continue to grow over time. As of December 31, 2015, approximately $17.9 billion, or 31%, of our direct institutional AUM was managed through SMAs compared to $6.4 billion, or 27%, as of December 31, 2011. 

Our publicly traded entities, including ARCC, ACRE and Ares Dynamic Credit Allocation Fund, Inc., account for approximately 14% of our AUM. We have over 375 institutional investors and over 235,000 retail investor accounts across our three publicly traded vehicles. 

We believe that client relationships are fundamental to our business and that our performance across our investment groups coupled with our focus on client service has resulted in strong relationships with our investors. Our dedicated and extensive in &#8209;house Business Development Group, comprised of approximately 50 professionals located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia, is dedicated to raising capital globally across all of our funds, servicing existing fund investors and tailoring offerings to meet their needs, developing products to complement our existing offerings, and deepening existing relationships to expand them across our platform. Our senior Relationship Management team maintains an active and transparent dialogue with an expansive list of investors. This team is supported by Product Managers and Investor Relations professionals, with deep experience in each of our four complementary investment groups, who are dedicated to servicing our existing and prospective investors. 

Employees 

We believe that one of the strengths and principal reasons for our success is the quality and dedication of our employees. We work to attract, develop and retain highly accomplished professionals across the firm. We believe that we employ individuals with a strong sense of commitment to our firm . As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 870 employees, comprised of approximately 350 investment professionals and 400 operations management professionals, with the remainder in administrative support, located in over 15 offices across four continents. 

Other Events 

In the first quarter of 2016, we announced the combination of our Tradable Credit and Direct Lending Groups to form a single segment called the Ares Credit Group in order to manage Ares&#x2019; broad array of credit products in a more effective manner. With total combined AUM of $62.2 billion and fee earning AUM of $50.1 billion as of December 31, 2015, the Credit Group will offer comprehensive and global credit management client solutions and be well positioned to capitalize on future growth opportunities. The Credit Group will specialize in liquid credit strategies, which include corporate loans, high yield bonds, institutional credit, and credit opportunities and illiquid credit strategies, which include special situations and direct lending. We do not expect any material changes to existing strategies, teams or portfolio management as a result of the combination. Ares will begin reporting the new Credit Group as a single operating segment for the quarter ending March 31, 2016. All information for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflects the four operating segments that were in place during that period. 

Organizational Structure 

The simplified diagram below (which omits certain wholly owned intermediate holding companies) depicts our organizational structure. Ownership information in the diagram below is presented as of December 31 , 201 5 . All entities are organized in the state of Delaware unless otherwise indicated. Ares Management, L.P. is a holding partnership and, either directly or through direct subsidiaries, is the general partner of each of the Ares Operating Group entities, and 

operates and controls the business and affairs of the Ares Operating Group. Ares Management, L.P. consolidates the financial results of the Ares Operating Group entities, their consolidated subsidiaries and certain consolidated funds. 

(1) 

Ares Management, L.P. common unitholders have limited voting rights and have no right to remove our general partner or, except in the limited circumstances described below, elect the directors of our general partner. On those few matters that may be submitted for a vote of our common unitholders, Ares Voting LLC, an entity owned and controlled by Ares Partners Holdco LLC, which is in turn owned and controlled by our Co &#8209;Founders, holds a special voting unit that provides it with a number of votes, on any matter that may be submitted for a vote of our common unitholders, that is equal to the aggregate number of vested and unvested Ares 

Operating Group Units held directly or indirectly by the limited partners of the Ares Operating Group that do not directly hold a special voting unit. 

(2) 

Ares Real Estate Holdings LLC has made an election to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Ares Real Estate Holdings LLC has at least 100 holders of preferred stock representing nominal economic interests. 

(3) 

Assuming the full exchange of Ares Operating Group Units for common units, Ares Management, L.P. would own 100% of the Ares Operating Group and Ares Owners Holdings L.P., Alleghany, ADIA and the public would own approximately 72.48%, 5.87%, 16.21% and 5.44%, respectively, of Ares Management, L.P. 

Holding Partnership Structure 

Ares Management, L.P. is treated as a partnership and not as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An entity that is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes generally incurs no U.S. federal income tax liability at the entity level. Instead, each partner is required to take into account its allocable share of items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of the partnership in computing its U.S. federal, state and local income tax liability each taxable year, whether or not cash distributions are made. Common unitholders are limited partners of Ares Management, L.P. Accordingly, common unitholders are required to report their allocable share of the income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of Ares Management, L.P., even if Ares Management, L.P. does not make cash distributions. The Ares Operating Group entities are treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, direct subsidiaries of Ares Management, L.P. that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes and that are the holders of Ares Operating Group Units are (and, in the case of Ares Offshore Holdings, Ltd., may be) subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes in respect of their interests in the Ares Operating Group entities. 

Each of the Ares Operating Group entities has an identical number of partnership units outstanding. Ares Management, L.P. holds, directly or through direct subsidiaries, a number of Ares Operating Group Units equal to the number of common units that Ares Management, L.P. has issued. The Ares Operating Group Units held by Ares Management, L.P. and its subsidiaries are economically identical in all respects to the Ares Operating Group Units that are not held by Ares Management, L.P. and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Ares Management, L.P. receives the income of the Ares Operating Group to the extent of its equity interest in the Ares Operating Group. 

The Ares Operating Group Units and our common units held directly or indirectly by our senior professional owners are generally subject to restrictions on transfer and other provisions. See &#x201C;Item 11. Executive Compensation.&#x201D; 

Certain Corporate Governance Considerations 

Voting Rights. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders have limited voting rights and have no right to remove our general partner or, except in the limited circumstances described below, elect the directors of our general partner. On those few matters that may be submitted for a vote of our common unitholders, Ares Voting LLC, an entity wholly owned by Ares Partners Holdco LLC, which is in turn owned and controlled by our Co &#8209;Founders, holds a special voting unit that provides it with a number of votes, on any matter that may be submitted for a vote of our common unitholders, that is equal to the aggregate number of Ares Operating Group Units held by the limited partners of the Ares Operating Group entities that do not hold a special voting unit. We refer to our common units (other than those held by any person whom our general partner may from time to time, with such person&#x2019;s consent, designate as a non &#8209;voting common unitholder) and our special voting units as &#x201C;voting units.&#x201D; Accordingly, on those few matters that may be submitted for a vote of our common unitholders, our public unitholders (other than ADIA) collectively have 5.44% of the voting power of Ares Management, L.P, and our Co &#8209;Founders, through Ares Owners Holdings L.P. and the special voting unit held by Ares Voting LLC, have approximately 78% of the voting power of Ares Management, L.P. Our common unitholders&#x2019; voting rights are further restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement stating that any common units held by a person that beneficially owns 20% or more of any class of our common units then outstanding (other than our general partner, Ares Owners Holdings L.P., a member of Ares Partners Holdco LLC or their respective affiliates, a direct or subsequently approved transferee of our general partner or its affiliates or a person who acquired such common units with the prior approval of our general partner) cannot vote on any matter. 

Election of Directors. In general, our common unitholders have no right to elect the directors of our general partner. However, when our Co &#8209;Founders and other then &#8209;current or former Ares personnel directly or indirectly hold less than 10% of the limited partner voting power, our common unitholders will have the right to vote in the election of the directors of our general partner. This voting power condition will be measured on January 31 of each year, and will be triggered if the total voting power held collectively by (i) holders of the special voting units in Ares Management, L.P. (including our general partner, members of Ares Partners Holdco LLC and their respective affiliates), (ii) then &#8209;current or former Ares personnel (including indirectly through related entities) and (iii) Ares Owners Holdings L.P.is less than 10% of the voting power of the outstanding voting units of Ares Management, L.P. For purposes of determining whether the Ares control condition is satisfied, our general partner will treat as outstanding, and as held by the foregoing persons, all voting units deliverable to such persons pursuant to equity awards granted to such persons . Unless and until the foregoing voting power condition is satisfied, our general partner&#x2019;s board of directors will be elected in accordance with its limited liability company agreement, which provides that directors generally may be appointed and removed by the member of our general partner, an entity owned and controlled by our Co &#8209;Founders. Unless and until the foregoing voting power condition is satisfied, the board of directors of our general partner has no authority other than that which its member chooses to delegate to it. In the event that the voting power condition is satisfied, the board of directors of our general partner will be responsible for the oversight of our business and operations. 

Conflicts of Interest and Duties of Our General Partner. Although our general partner does not engage in any business activities other than the management and operation of our businesses, conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us or our common unitholders, on the one hand, and our general partner or its affiliates or associates, on the other. The resolutions of these conflicts may not always be in our best interests or that of our common unitholders. In addition, we have fiduciary and contractual obligations to the investors in our funds and we expect to regularly take actions with respect to the purchase or sale of investments in our funds, the structuring of investment transactions for those funds or otherwise that are in the best interests of the investors in those funds but that might at the same time adversely affect our near term results of operations or cash flow. 

Our partnership agreement limits the liability of, and reduces or eliminates the duties (including fiduciary duties) owed by, our general partner and its affiliates and associates to us and our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement also restricts the remedies available to common unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute breaches of our general partner&#x2019;s or its affiliates&#x2019; or associates&#x2019; duties (including fiduciary duties). Common unitholders are treated as having consented to the provisions set forth in our partnership agreement, including the provisions regarding conflicts of interest situations that, in the absence of such provisions, might be considered a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. 

Operations Management Group 

The OMG consists of five independent, shared resource groups to support our reportable segments by providing infrastructure and administrative support in the areas of accounting/finance, operations/information technology, business development, legal/compliance and human resources. Our clients seek to partner with investment management firms that not only have compelling investment track records across multiple investment products but also possess seasoned infrastructure support functions. As such, significant investments have been made to develop the OMG. We have successfully launched new business lines, integrated acquired businesses into the operations and created scale within the OMG to support a much larger platform in the future. 

Structure and Operation of our Funds 

We conduct the management of our funds and other similar private vehicles primarily through organizing a partnership or limited liability structure in which entities organized by us accept commitments and/or funds for investment from institutional investors and (to a limited extent) high net worth individuals. Such commitments are generally drawn down from investors on an as needed basis to fund investments over a specified term. Our Tradable Credit funds also include hedge funds or structured funds in which the investor&#x2019;s capital is fully funded into the fund upon or soon after the subscription for interests in the fund. The CLOs that we manage are structured investment vehicles that are generally private companies with limited liability. Our drawdown funds and hedge funds are generally organized as limited partnerships or limited liability companies, however there are non &#8209;U.S. funds that are structured as corporate or non &#8209;partnership entities under applicable law. We also advise a number of investors through SMA relationships structured as contractual arrangements or single investor vehicles. In the case of our SMAs that are not structured as single investor 

vehicles, the investor, rather than us, generally controls custody of the investments with respect to which we advise. Three of the vehicles that we manage are publicly traded corporations. The publicly traded corporations do not have redemption provisions or a requirement to return capital to investors upon exiting the investments made with such capital, except as required by applicable law (including distribution requirements that must be met to maintain RIC or REIT status). However, ACRE&#x2019;s charter includes certain limitations relating to the ownership or purported transfer of its common stock in violation of the REIT ownership requirements. 

Our funds are generally advised by an indirect subsidiary of Ares Management, L.P. registered under the Investment Advisers Act or a wholly owned subsidiary thereof. Responsibility for the day &#8209;to &#8209;day operations of each investment vehicle is typically delegated to the Ares entity serving as investment adviser pursuant to an investment advisory (or similar) agreement. Generally, the material terms of our investment advisory agreements relate to the scope of services to be rendered by the investment adviser to the applicable vehicle, the calculation of management fees to be borne by investors in our investment vehicles and certain rights of termination with respect to our investment advisory agreements. With the exception of certain of the publicly traded corporations, the investment vehicles themselves do not generally register as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#x201C;Investment Company Act of 1940&#x201D;) in reliance on applicable exemptions thereunder. 

The investment management agreements we enter into with clients in connection with contractual SMAs may generally be terminated by such clients with reasonably short prior written notice. Our investment management agreement with ARCC generally must be approved annually by such company&#x2019;s board of directors (including a majority of such company&#x2019;s independent directors). In addition to other termination provisions, each investment advisory and management agreement will automatically terminate in the event of its assignment and may be terminated by either party without penalty upon 60 days&#x2019; written notice to the other party. 

The governing agreements of many of our funds provide that, subject to certain conditions, third &#8209;party investors in those funds have the right to terminate the investment period or the fund without cause. The governing agreements of some of our funds provide that, subject to certain conditions, third &#8209;party investors have the right to remove the general partner. In addition, the governing agreements of certain of our funds provide that upon the occurrence of certain events, including in the event that certain &#x201C;key persons&#x201D; in our funds do not meet specified time commitments, the investment period will be suspended or the investors have the right to vote to terminate the investment period in accordance with specified procedures. 

Fee Structure 

Management Fees 

The investment adviser of each of our funds and certain SMAs generally receives an annual management fee based upon a percentage of the fund&#x2019;s capital commitments, total assets or invested capital during the investment period and the fund&#x2019;s invested capital after the investment period, except that the investment advisers to certain of our hedge funds and separately managed accounts receive an annual management fee that is based upon a percentage of invested capital or net asset value throughout the term of the fund. From time to time we also may receive special fees, including commitment and transaction fees and portfolio management or monitoring fees, some of which may be accelerated upon a sale of the underlying portfolio investment. While not our general practice to receive such fees, when received our policy is to offset such amounts against future management fees relating to the applicable fund. 

The investment adviser of each of our CLOs typically receives annual management fees based upon a percentage of each fund&#x2019;s total assets or invested capital, subject to certain performance measures related to the underlying assets the vehicle owns, and additional management fees which are incentive &#8209;based (that is, subject to meeting certain return criteria). We also classify the ARCC Part I Fees as management fees due to their predictability and frequency of payments without risk of clawback. See &#x201C;Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#x2014;Overview of Consolidated Results of Operations&#x2014;Revenues.&#x201D; 

The management fees we receive from our drawdown style funds are typically payable on a quarterly basis over the life of the fund and do not depend on the investment performance of the fund (other than to reflect the disposition or 

decrease in value of assets where the management fees are based on invested capital). The management fees we receive from our hedge funds have similar characteristics, except that such funds often afford investors increased liquidity through annual, semi &#8209;annual or quarterly withdrawal or redemption rights following the expiration of a specified period of time when capital may not be withdrawn and the amount of management fees to which the investment adviser is entitled with respect thereto will proportionately increase as the net asset value of each investor&#x2019;s capital account grows and will proportionately decrease as the net asset value of each investor&#x2019;s capital account decreases. The management fees we receive from our SMAs are generally paid on a regular basis (typically quarterly, subject to the termination rights described above) and may alternatively be based on invested capital or proportionately increase or decrease based on the net asset value of the separately managed account. 

We also receive management fees in accordance with the investment advisory and management agreements we have with the publicly traded vehicles we manage. Base management fees we receive from ARCC are paid quarterly and proportionately increase or decrease based on ARCC&#x2019;s total assets (other than cash and cash equivalents). ARCC Part I Fees are also generally paid quarterly and proportionately increase or decrease based on ARCC&#x2019;s net investment income (before ARCC Part I Fees and ARCC Part II Fees (as defined in &#x201C;Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#x2014;Overview of Consolidated Results of Operations&#x2014;Revenues&#x201D;)), subject to a fixed hurdle rate. Management fees we receive from ARDC are generally paid on a regular basis (typically monthly) and proportionately increase or decrease based on the closed &#8209;end funds&#x2019; total assets minus such funds&#x2019; liabilities (other than liabilities relating to indebtedness). Management fees we receive from ACRE are generally paid on a regular basis (typically quarterly) and proportionately increase or decrease based on ACRE&#x2019;s stockholders&#x2019; equity (as calculated pursuant to the ACRE management agreement). 

Performance Fees 

We may also receive performance fees from a majority of our funds, which may be either an incentive fee or a special allocation of income, which we refer to as a carried interest, in the event that specified investment returns are achieved by the fund. We may, and do in certain cases, award our employees and senior professionals with participation in such performance fees. 

Incentive Fees 

The general partners or similar entities of certain of our funds receive performance &#8209;based allocation fees ranging from 10% to 20% of the applicable fund&#x2019;s net capital appreciation per annum, subject to certain net loss carry &#8209; forward provisions (known as a &#x201C;high &#8209;watermark&#x201D;). In some cases, the investment adviser of each of our hedge funds and certain SMAs is entitled to an incentive fee generally up to 20% of the applicable fund&#x2019;s net appreciation per annum, subject to a high &#8209;watermark and in some cases a preferred return. Realized incentive fees are generally higher during the second half of the year due to the nature of certain Tradable Credit and Direct Lending funds that typically realize incentive fees annually. Once realized, the fees earned by our hedge funds generally are not subject to clawback. Incentive fees are realized at the end of a measurement period, typically quarterly or annually. 

Carried Interest 

The general partner or an affiliate of certain of our funds receives carried interest from the fund. Carried interest entitles the general partner (or an affiliate) to a special allocation of income and gains from a fund, and is typically structured as a net profits interest in the applicable fund. Carried interest is generally calculated on a &#x201C;realized gain&#x201D; basis, and the general partner of a fund is generally entitled to a carried interest between 1 0 % and 20% of the net realized income and gains (generally taking into account unrealized losses) generated by such fund. Net realized income or loss is not netted between or among funds. 

For most funds, the carried interest is subject to a preferred return ranging from 5 % to 8%, subject in most cases to a catch &#8209;up allocation to the general partner. Generally, if at the termination of a fund (and in some cases at interim points in the life of a fund), the fund has not achieved investment returns that generally exceed the preferred return threshold or the general partner receives net profits over the life of the fund in excess of its allocable share under the applicable partnership agreement, the general partner will be obligated to repay an amount equal to the extent to which performance fees that were previously distributed to it exceeds the amounts to which the general partner is ultimately entitled. These repayment obligations may be related to amounts previously distributed to us and our senior professionals. This obligation is known as a &#x201C;clawback&#x201D; obligation. 

Although a portion of any distributions by us to our common unitholders may include carried interest received by us, we do not intend to seek fulfillment of any clawback obligation by seeking to have our common unitholders return any portion of such distributions attributable to carried interest associated with any clawback obligation. Clawback obligations operate with respect to a given fund&#x2019;s own net investment performance only and performance fees of other funds are not netted for determining this contingent obligation. Although a clawback obligation is several to each person who received a distribution, and not a joint obligation, the governing agreements of our funds generally provide that, if a recipient does not fund his or her respective share, we may have to fund such additional amounts beyond the amount of performance fees we retained, although we generally will retain the right to pursue remedies against those performance fee recipients who fail to fund their obligations. 

For additional information concerning the clawback obligations we could face, see &#x201C;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#x2014;We may need to pay &#x201C;clawback&#x201D; obligations if and when they are triggered under the governing agreements with our investors.&#x201D; 

Incentive Fees from Publicly Traded Vehicles 

We also are entitled to receive incentive fees accordance with the investment advisory and management agreements we have with ARCC and ACRE. We may receive ARCC Part II Fees, which are calculated at the end of each applicable year by subtracting (a) the sum of ARCC&#x2019;s cumulative aggregate realized capital losses and aggregate unrealized capital depreciation from (b) its cumulative aggregate realized capital gains, in each case calculated from October 8, 2004. Incentive fees we receive from ACRE are based on a percentage of the difference between ACRE&#x2019;s core earnings (as defined in ACRE&#x2019;s management agreement) and an amount derived from the weighted average issue price per share of ACRE&#x2019;s common stock in its public offerings multiplied by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding. We are not entitled to receive incentive fees from ARDC. 

Capital Invested In and Through Our Funds 

To further align our interests with those of investors in our funds, we have invested the firm&#x2019;s capital and that of our professionals in the funds we sponsor and manage. General partner capital commitments to our funds are determined separately with respect to our funds and, generally, are less than 5% of the total commitments of any particular fund. We determine the general partner capital commitments based on a variety of factors, including investor requirements, estimates regarding liquidity over the estimated time period during which commitments will be funded, estimates regarding the amounts of capital that may be appropriate for other opportunities or other funds we may be in the process of raising or are considering raising, prevailing industry standards with respect to sponsor commitments and our general working capital requirements. We may from time to time offer to our senior professionals a part of the general partner commitments to our funds. Our general partner capital commitments are typically funded with cash and not with carried interest or deferral of management fees. For more information, see &#x201C;Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#x2014;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#x2014;Sources and Uses of Liquidity.&#x201D; 

Regulatory and Compliance Matters 

Our businesses, as well as the financial services industry generally are subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations, by governmental agencies and self &#8209;regulatory organizations or exchanges in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate relating to, among other things, antitrust laws, anti &#8209;money laundering laws, anti &#8209;bribery laws relating to foreign officials, and privacy laws with respect to client information, and some of our funds invest in businesses that operate in highly regulated industries. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities. Any failure to comply with these rules and regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. In addition, additional legislation, increasing global regulatory oversight of fundraising activities, changes in rules promulgated by self &#8209;regulatory organizations or exchanges or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United States or elsewhere, may directly affect our mode of operation and profitability. See &#x201C; 