 Item 1. &#160; Business . 

Arrow Electronics, Inc. (the "company" or "Arrow") is a global provider of products, services, and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions. The company has one of the world&#8217;s broadest portfolios of product offerings available from leading electronic components and enterprise computing solutions suppliers, coupled with a range of services, solutions and tools that help industrial and commercial customers introduce innovative products, reduce their time to market, and enhance their overall competitiveness. Arrow was incorporated in New York in 1946 and serves over 100,000 &#32; customers. 

Arrow's diverse worldwide customer base consists of original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), contract manufacturers ("CMs"), and other commercial customers. These customers include manufacturers of industrial equipment (such as machine tools, factory automation, and robotic equipment) and consumer products serving industries ranging from telecommunications, automotive and transportation, aerospace and defense, medical, professional services, and alternative energy, among others. Customers also include value-added resellers ("VARs") of enterprise computing solutions. 

The company maintains over 300 &#32;sales facilities &#32; and 40 &#32;distribution and value-added centers in 53 &#32;countries, serving over 85 &#32;countries. Through this network, Arrow guides innovation forward by helping its customers deliver new technologies, new materials, new ideas, and new electronics that impact the business community and consumers. 

The company has two business segments, the global components business and the global enterprise computing solutions ("ECS") business. The company distributes electronic components to OEMs and CMs through its global components business segment and provides enterprise computing solutions to VARs through its global ECS business segment. For 2015 , approximately 62% &#32;of the company's sales were from the global components business segment, and approximately 38% &#32;of the company's sales were from the global ECS business segment. The financial information about the company's business segments and geographic operations is found in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The company's financial objectives are to grow sales faster than the market, increase the markets served, grow profits faster than sales, and increase return on invested capital. To achieve its objectives, the company seeks to capture significant opportunities to grow across products, markets, and geographies. To supplement its organic growth strategy, the company continually evaluates strategic acquisitions to broaden its product and value-added service offerings, increase its market penetration, and expand its geographic reach. 

&#160; 

Global Components 

Global components markets and distributes electronic components and provides a comprehensive range of value-added capabilities throughout the entire life cycle of technology products and services. The company provides customers with the ability to deliver the latest technologies to the market through design engineering, global marketing and integration, global logistics and supply chain management. The company offers the convenience of accessing, from a single source, multiple technologies and products from its suppliers with rapid or scheduled deliveries. Additionally, the company offers expertise in reverse logistics, asset management, and asset recovery to maximize value at the end of a product&#8217;s life cycle. Most of the company's customers require delivery of their orders on schedules or volumes that are generally not available on direct purchases from manufacturers. 

As one of the largest providers of electronic components and related services in the world, global components covers the world's largest electronics markets - the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), and Asia Pacific regions. The Americas include operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and the United States. In the EMEA region, the global components business segment operates in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. In the Asia Pacific region, the global components business segment operates in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. 

Within the global components business segment, approximately 66% &#32;of the company's sales consist of semiconductor products and related services; approximately 19% &#32;consist of passive, electro-mechanical, and interconnect products, consisting primarily of capacitors, resistors, potentiometers, power supplies, relays, switches, and connectors; approximately 10% &#32;consist of computing and memory; and approximately 5% &#32;consist of other products and services. 

Over the past three years, the global components business segment completed 16 &#32;strategic acquisitions to broaden its product and service offerings, to further expand its geographic reach in the Asia Pacific region, and to increase its digital capabilities to meet the evolving needs of customers and suppliers. These acquisitions also expanded the company's global components business segment's portfolio of products and services across the full product lifecycle including new product development, reverse logistics, and electronics asset disposition. 

Global ECS 

The company's global ECS business segment is a leading value-added provider of comprehensive computing solutions and services. Global ECS&#8217; portfolio of computing solutions includes datacenter, cloud, security, and analytics solutions. Global ECS brings broad market access, extensive supplier relationships, scale and resources to help its VARs meet the needs of their end-users. Global ECS works with VARs to tailor complex IT solutions for their end-users. Customers have access to various services including engineering and integration support, warehousing and logistics, marketing resources, and authorized hardware and software training. Global ECS&#8217; suppliers benefit from demand creation, speed to market, and efficient supply chain management. For these suppliers, global ECS is the aggregation point to over 20,000 &#32;VARs. 

Global ECS operates in 32 &#32;countries around the world, largely in the Americas, EMEA, and the Asia Pacific regions. The Americas include operations in the United States, Canada, and Brazil. In the EMEA region, the global ECS business segment operates in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom. The Asia Pacific region includes offices in Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore. 

Within the global ECS business segment, approximately 39% &#32;consist of software, 35% &#32;of the company's sales consist of storage, 9% &#32;consist of proprietary servers, 9% &#32;consist of industry standard servers, and 8% &#32;consist of other products and services. 

Over the past three years, the global ECS business segment completed 4 &#32;strategic acquisitions to further expand its geographic reach and its portfolio of products. Aligned with the vision of guiding innovation forward in the IT channel, the company is investing in emerging and adjacent markets, such as managed services and unified computing, within the ECS business. 

Customers and Suppliers 

The company and its affiliates serve over 100,000 &#32;industrial and commercial customers. Industrial customers range from major OEMs and CMs to small engineering firms, while commercial customers primarily include VARs and OEMs. No single customer accounted for more than 2% &#32;of the company's 2015 &#32;consolidated sales. 

The company&#8217;s sales teams focus on an extensive portfolio of products and services to support customers&#8217; material management and production needs, including connecting customers to the company&#8217;s field application engineers that provide technical support and serve as a gateway to the company&#8217;s supplier partners. The company&#8217;s sales representatives generally focus on a specific customer segment, particular product lines or a specific geography, and provide end-to-end product offerings and solutions with an emphasis on helping customers introduce innovative products, reduce their time to market, and enhance their overall competitiveness. 

Substantially all of the company's sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than through long-term sales contracts. As such, the nature of the company's business does not provide visibility of material forward-looking information from its customers and suppliers beyond a few months. 

No single supplier accounted for more than 7% &#32;of the company's consolidated sales in 2015 . The company believes that many of the products it sells are available from other sources at competitive prices. However, certain parts of the company's business, such as the company's global ECS business segment, rely on a limited number of suppliers with the strategy of providing focused support, extensive product knowledge, and customized service to suppliers and VARs. Most of the company's purchases are pursuant to distributor agreements, which are typically non-exclusive and cancelable by either party at any time or on short notice. 

Distribution Agreements 

Generally, our agreements with manufacturers protect us against the potential write-down of inventories due to technological change or manufacturers' price reductions. Write-downs of inventories to market value are based upon contractual provisions, which typically provide certain protections to the company for product obsolescence and price erosion in the form of return privileges, scrap allowances, and price protection. Under the terms of the related distributor agreements and assuming the company complies with certain conditions, such suppliers are required to credit the company for reductions in manufacturers' list prices. 

As of December 31, 2015 , this type of arrangement covered approximately 57% &#32;of the company's consolidated inventories. In addition, under the terms of many such agreements, the company has the right to return to the manufacturer, for credit, a defined portion of those inventory items purchased within a designated period of time. 

A manufacturer, which elects to terminate a distribution agreement, is generally required to purchase from the company the total amount of its products carried in inventory. As of December 31, 2015 , this type of repurchase arrangement covered approximately 61% &#32;of the company's consolidated inventories. 

While these inventory practices do not wholly protect the company from inventory losses, the company believes that they currently provide substantial protection from such losses. 

Competition 

The company operates in a highly competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally. The company competes with other large multinational and national electronic components and enterprise computing solutions distributors, as well as numerous other smaller, specialized competitors who generally focus on narrower markets, products, or particular sectors. The company also competes for customers with its suppliers. The size of the company's competitors vary across markets sectors, as do the resources the company has allocated to the sectors in which it does business. Therefore, some of the company's competitors may have a more extensive customer and/or supplier base than the company in one or more of its market sectors. There is significant competition within each market sector and geography served that creates pricing pressure and the need to improve services. Other competitive factors include rapid technological changes, product availability, credit availability, speed of delivery, ability to tailor solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines and training, as well as service and support provided by the distributor to the customer. 

The company also faces competition from companies entering or expanding into the logistics and product fulfillment, electronic catalog distribution, and e-commerce supply chain services markets. As the company seeks to expand its business into new areas in order to stay competitive in the market, the company may encounter increased competition from its current and/or new competitors. 

The company believes that it is well equipped to compete effectively with its competitors in all of these areas due to its comprehensive product and service offerings, highly-skilled work force, and global distribution network. 

Employees 

The company and its affiliates employed approximately 18,500 &#32;employees worldwide &#32; as of December 31, 2015 . 

Available Information 

The company files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and other documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A copy of any document the company files with the SEC is available for review at the SEC's public reference room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC is reachable at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. The company's SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC's Web site at http://www.sec.gov &#32;and through the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005, on which the company's common stock is listed. 

A copy of any of the company's filings with the SEC, or any of the agreements or other documents that constitute exhibits to those filings, can be obtained by request directed to the company at the following address and telephone number: 

Arrow Electronics, Inc. 

9201 East Dry Creek Road 

Centennial, Colorado 80112 

(303) 824-4000 

Attention: Corporate Secretary 

The company also makes these filings available, free of charge, through its website ( http://www.arrow.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the company files such material with the SEC. The company does not intend this internet address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth the names, ages, and the positions held by each of the executive officers of the company as of February 5, 2016 : 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Michael J. Long 

Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 

Andrew S. Bryant 

Chief Operating Officer, Arrow Global Enterprise Computing Solutions and Global Components 

Sean J. Kerins 

President, Arrow Global Enterprise Computing Solutions 

Andy King 

President, Arrow Global Components 

Vincent P. Melvin 

Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer 

M. Catherine Morris 

Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer 

Paul J. Reilly 

Executive Vice President, Finance and Operations, and Chief Financial Officer 

Gregory P. Tarpinian 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary 

Gretchen K. Zech 

Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 

Set forth below is a brief account of the business experience during the past five years of each executive officer of the company. 

Michael J. Long has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the company for more than five years. He has been a Director and President of the company for more than five years. 

Andrew S. Bryant was appointed Chief Operating Officer of the Arrow Global Enterprise Computing Solutions and Global Components businesses in May 2014. Prior thereto he served as the President of Arrow Global Enterprise Computing Solutions for more than five years. 

Sean J. Kerins was appointed President of Arrow Global Enterprise Computing Solutions in May 2014. Prior thereto he served as President of North America Enterprise Computing Solutions from July 2010 to May 2014. 

Andy King was appointed President of Arrow Global Components in November 2015. Prior thereto he served as President of EMEA Components from November 2013 to November 2015 and Vice President of Sales in EMEA Components from November 2011 to November 2013. He also served as the VP of EMEA Marketing and Engineering from November 2010 to November 2011. 

Vincent P. Melvin was appointed Senior Vice President of the company in December 2013. Prior thereto he served as Vice President of the company from September 2006 to December 2013. He has been the Chief Information Officer of the company for more than five years. 

M. Catherine Morris has been Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the company for more than five years. 

Paul J. Reilly has been Executive Vice President, Finance and Operations, and Chief Financial Officer of the company for more than five years. 

Gregory P. Tarpinian was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of the company effective January 2015. Prior thereto he served as the Vice President of Legal Affairs for more than five years. 

Gretchen K. Zech was appointed Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources of the company in November 2011. Prior to joining Arrow she served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, for Dex One Corporation (formerly known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation) from June 2006 to November 2011. R.H. Donnelley Corporation filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in May 2009 and emerged as Dex One Corporation in January 2010. 

