 Item 1. Business. 

Our Company 

Astika Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation, is refocusing and preparing to relaunch the Company through a variety of strategic acquisitions in the textile, service, agricultural and industrial sectors to complement and capture the next wave of growth companies from Asia and New Zealand. Rapid economic growth and increased foreign investment sector companies poised for accelerated growth with national modernization are the planned centerpieces for Astika Holdings in Asia and New Zealand. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2015, we generated revenues in the amount of $0 and had a net loss in the amount of $114,475.

We qualify as an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which became law in April, 2012. Under the JOBS Act, &#147;emerging growth companies&#148;, can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.

Our principal executive offices are located at Level 1, 725 Rosebank Road, Avondale, Auckland, 1348, New Zealand. Our telephone number is (64) 9 929 0502. We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Florida on January 13, 2011. Our fiscal year end is December 31.

Principal Business 

The initial planned target acquisitions from the Nantong Region in China are private companies which have been in business for over a decade with consistent track records of delivering revenue and earnings growth in the textile and service sectors. The Company also has plans for agricultural &#147;Green Future&#148; initiatives into the Industrial Hemp sector and New Zealand Dairy sector. The Holdings would become the primary operations and management believes that focusing our efforts on the acquisition of textile, service, agricultural, and industrial companies would represent the greatest potential for shareholder return. Rapid economic growth and increased foreign investment sector companies poised for accelerated growth with national modernization are the planned centerpieces for Astika Holdings in Asia and New Zealand.

Government Regulation 

We are subject to government regulations that regulate businesses generally, such as compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state, and local agencies and authorities, including regulations concerning workplace safety and labor relations. In addition, our operations are affected by federal and state laws relating to marketing practices in the music industry. Environmental laws and regulations do not materially impact our operations.

Research and Development 

We have not spent any funds on research and development activities in connection with our business.

Personnel 

As of October 11, 2016, we employed two persons on a part-time basis. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.

