 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

A general discussion of our business follows. For additional information about our business, please visit our website at www.Atlanticus.com . Information contained on or available through our website is not incorporated by reference in this Report. 

We are a Georgia corporation formed in 2009, as successor to an entity that commenced operations in 1996. We provide various credit and related financial services and products primarily to or associated with the financially underserved consumer credit market. We utilize proprietary analytics and a flexible technology platform to provide various credit and related financial services and products to or associated with the financially underserved consumer credit market. Currently, within our Credit and Other Investments segment, we are applying the experiences gained and infrastructure built from funding over $25 billion in consumer loans over our 19-year operating history to originate a range of consumer loan products through our primary consumer brand, Fortiva. As part of this brand, we market Fortiva Retail Credit, Fortiva Personal Loans and Fortiva Credit Cards through multiple channels, including retail point-of-sale, direct mail solicitation, Internet-based marketing and partnerships with third parties who have relationships with our core customers. In our point-of-sale channel, we partner with retailers and service providers in various industries across the U.S. to offer Fortiva Retail Credit to their customers for the purchase of a variety of goods and services including consumer electronics, furniture, elective medical procedures, educational services and home-improvements. Our flexible technology platform allows us to integrate our paperless process and instant decision-making capabilities with our partners' technology infrastructure. These products are often extended to customers who may have been declined under traditional financing options. We specialize in providing this "second-look" credit service. Additionally, we are able to market our general purpose Fortiva Personal Loans and Fortiva Credit Cards directly to consumers through additional channels, which enables us to reach consumers through a diverse origination platform that includes direct mail, Internet-based marketing and through partnerships. Our technology platform and proprietary analytics enable us to make instant credit decisions utilizing hundreds of inputs, from multiple sources and thereby offer credit to consumers overlooked by traditional providers of credit. By offering a range of products through a multitude of channels, we seek to provide the right type of credit, whenever and wherever the consumer has a need. 

Using our infrastructure and technology platform, we also provide loan servicing, including underwriting, marketing, customer service and collections operations for third parties. Also through our Credit and Other Investments segment, we engage in testing and limited investment in consumer finance technology platforms as we seek to capitalize on our expertise and infrastructure. 

Beyond these activities within our Credit and Other Investments segment, we continue to collect on portfolios of credit card receivables. These receivables include both receivables we originated through third-party financial institutions and portfolios of receivables we purchased from third-party financial institutions. One of our portfolios of credit card receivables is encumbered by non-recourse structured financing, and for this portfolio our principal remaining economic interest is the servicing compensation we receive as an offset against our servicing costs given that the likely future collections on the portfolio are insufficient to allow for full repayment of the financing. 

Additionally, we report within our Credit and Other Investments segment the income earned from an investment in an equity-method investee that holds credit card receivables for which we are the servicer. 

Lastly, we report within our Credit and Other Investments segment, gains associated with investments previously made in consumer finance technology platforms. These include investments in companies engaged in mobile technologies, marketplace lending and other financial technologies. These investments are carried at the lower of cost or market valuation, and the remaining associated book value as of December 31, 2015 &#32;is negligible given variations in the ascribed values since acquisition. Some of these investees have raised, and continue to seek, capital at valuations substantially in excess of our associated book value. However, none of these companies are publicly-traded, there are no pending liquidity events, and ascribing value to these investments at this time would be speculative. Based on the performance and/or marketability of these investments in future periods, we could have material gains for our remaining ownership in these or other investment assets. 

&#160; 

The recurring cash flows we receive within our Credit and Other Investments segment principally include those associated with (1) our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance activities, (2) servicing compensation and (3) credit card receivables portfolios that are unencumbered or where we own a portion of the underlying structured financing facility. 

We historically financed most of our credit card receivables through the asset-backed securitization markets. These markets deteriorated significantly in 2008, and the level of &#8220;advance rates,&#8221; or leverage against credit card receivable assets, in the current asset-backed securitization markets is below pre-2008 levels. We do believe, however, that our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance activities are generating and will continue to generate attractive returns on assets, thereby allowing us to secure debt financing under terms and conditions (including advance rates and pricing) that will allow us to achieve our desired returns on equity, and we continue to pursue growth in this area. 

Within our Auto Finance segment, our CAR subsidiary operations principally purchase and/or service loans secured by automobiles from or for, and also provide floor plan financing for, a pre-qualified network of independent automotive dealers and automotive finance companies in the buy-here, pay-here, used car business. We purchase auto loans at a discount and with dealer retentions or holdbacks that provide risk protection. Also within our Auto Finance segment, we are providing certain installment lending products in addition to our traditional loans secured by automobiles. 

We closely monitor and manage our expenses based on current product offerings (and in recent years have significantly reduced our overhead infrastructure which was built to accommodate higher account originations and managed receivables levels). As such, we are maintaining our infrastructure and incurring increased overhead and other costs in order to expand point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance solutions and new product offerings that we believe have the potential to grow into our infrastructure and allow for long-term shareholder returns. 

Subject to the availability of capital at attractive terms and pricing, we plan to continue to evaluate and pursue a variety of activities, including: (1) the expansion of our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance products; (2) the acquisition of additional financial assets associated with our point-of-sale finance activities as well as the acquisition of receivables portfolios; (3) investments in other assets or businesses that are not necessarily financial services assets or businesses; (4) the repurchase of our convertible senior notes and other debt or our outstanding common stock; and (5) the servicing of receivables and related financial assets for third parties (and in which we have limited or no equity interests) to allow us to leverage our expertise and infrastructure. 

Credit and Other Investments Segment. &#32;&#32;Our Credit and Other Investments segment includes our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance operations, investments in and servicing of our various credit card receivables portfolios and other product development and limited investment in consumer finance technology platforms that generally capitalize on our credit infrastructure. 

As previously discussed, through our Fortiva brand (Fortiva Retail Credit, Fortiva Personal Loan, and Fortiva Credit Card) we offer a broad array of products over multiple channels. We leverage proprietary analytics and a robust technology platform to offer loan products to consumers overlooked by other providers of consumer credit. Through Fortiva Retail Credit (our "point-of-sale" operations), we leverage our flexible technology platform to allow retail partners and service providers to offer loan options to their customers who have typically been declined by a primary lender. Our paperless process, instant decision-making and analytical capabilities enable a streamlined customer experience and increased sales for our retail partners. We leverage the same proprietary analytics and infrastructure to offer general purpose loan products directly to consumers through Fortiva Personal Loans and Fortiva Credit Cards (our "direct-to-consumer" products). We reach these consumers through a diverse origination platform that includes direct mail, Internet-based marketing and partnerships. 

Our growing portfolio of finance assets are generating and we believe will continue to generate attractive returns on assets, thereby allowing us to secure debt financing under terms and conditions (including advance rates and pricing) that will allow us to achieve our desired returns on equity, and we continue to pursue growth in this area. 

Substantially all of the credit card accounts underlying our credit card receivables and portfolios have been closed to new cardholder purchases since 2009. We continue to service our credit card portfolios as they continue to liquidate. 

Our credit and other operations are heavily regulated, which may cause us to change how we conduct our operations either in response to regulation or in keeping with our goal of leading the industry in adherence to consumer-friendly practices. We have made several significant changes to our practices over the past several years, and because our account management practices are evolutionary and dynamic, it is possible that we may make further changes to these practices, some of which may produce positive, and others of which may produce adverse, effects on our operating results and financial position. Customers at the lower end of the credit score range intrinsically have higher loss rates than do customers at the higher end of the credit score range. As a result, we price our products to reflect this higher loss rate. As such, our products are subject to greater regulatory scrutiny than the products of prime lenders who are able to price their credit products at much lower levels than we can. See &#8220;Consumer and Debtor Protection Laws and Regulations&#8212;Credit and Other Investments Segment&#8221; and Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Auto Finance Segment. &#32;&#32;The operations of our Auto Finance segment are principally conducted through our CAR platform, which we acquired in April 2005. CAR primarily purchases and/or services loans secured by automobiles from or for a pre-qualified network of independent automotive dealers and automotive finance companies in the buy-here, pay-here used car business. In 2010, we started offering floor-plan financing to this same group of dealers and finance companies. In 2013 we also started offering certain installment lending products in addition to our traditional loans secured by automobiles. While this product represented less than 15% of CAR's net outstanding receivables as of December 31, 2015 , we seek to grow the volume of these loans in the coming quarters. 

Through our CAR operations, we generate revenues on purchased loans through interest earned on the face value of the installment agreements combined with the accretion of discounts on loans purchased. We generally earn discount income over the life of the applicable loan. Additionally, we generate revenues from servicing loans on behalf of dealers for a portion of actual collections and by providing back-up servicing for similar quality assets owned by unrelated third parties. We offer a number of other products to our network of buy-here, pay-here dealers (including our floor-plan financing offering), but the majority of our activities are represented by our purchases of auto loans at discounts and our servicing of auto loans for a fee. As of December 31, 2015 , our CAR operations served more than 590 &#32;dealers in 34 &#32;states, the District of Columbia and two U.S. territories. These operations continue to perform well in the current environment (achieving consistent profitability and generating positive cash flows with modest growth). 

How Do We Manage the Accounts and Mitigate Our Risks? 

Credit and Other Investments Segment. &#32;We manage accounts using credit behavioral scoring, credit file data and our proprietary risk evaluation systems. These strategies include the management of transaction authorizations, account renewals, over-limit accounts, credit line modifications and collection programs. We use an adaptive control system to translate our strategies into account management processes. The system enables us to develop and test multiple strategies simultaneously, which allows us to continually refine our account management activities. We have incorporated our proprietary risk scores into the control system, in addition to standard credit behavior scores used widely in the industry, in order to segment, evaluate and manage the accounts. We believe that by combining external credit file data along with historical and current customer activity, we are able to better predict the true risk associated with current and delinquent accounts. 

For our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance activities as well as the accounts that are open to purchases, we generally seek to manage credit lines to reward financially underserved customers who are performing well and to mitigate losses from delinquent customer segments. We also employ strategies to reduce otherwise open credit lines for customers demonstrating indicators of increased credit or bankruptcy risk. Data relating to account performance are captured and loaded into our proprietary database for ongoing analysis. We adjust account management strategies as necessary, based on the results of such analyses. Additionally, we use industry-standard fraud detection software to manage the portfolio. We route accounts to manual work queues and suspend charging privileges if the transaction-based fraud models indicate a probability of fraudulent use. 

Auto Finance Segment. &#32;&#32;Our CAR operations manage credit quality and loss mitigation at the dealer portfolio level through the implementation of dealer-specific loss reserve accounts. In most instances, the reserve accounts are cross-collateralized across all accounts presented by any single dealer. CAR monitors performance at the dealer portfolio level (by product type) to adjust pricing or the reserve account or to determine whether to terminate future account purchases from such dealer. 

CAR provides dealers with specific purchase guidelines based upon each product offering and delegates approval authority to assist in the monitoring of transactions during the loan acquisition process. Dealers are subject to specific approval criteria, and individual accounts typically are verified for accuracy before, during and after the acquisition process. Dealer portfolios across the business segment are monitored and compared against expected collections and peer dealer performance. Monitoring of dealer pool vintages, delinquencies and loss ratios helps determine past performance and expected future results, which are used to adjust pricing and reserve requirements. Our CAR operations also manage risk through diversifying their receivables among multiple dealers. 

How Do We Collect from Our Customers? 

Credit and Other Investments Segment. &#32;The goal of the collections process is to collect as much of the money that is owed to us in the most cost-effective and customer-friendly manner possible. To this end, we employ the traditional cross-section of letters and telephone calls to encourage payment. We also sometimes offer customers flexibility with respect to the application of payments in order to encourage larger or prompter payments. For instance, in certain cases we may vary from our general payment application priority (i.e., of applying payments first to finance charges, then to fees, and then to principal) by agreeing to apply payments first to principal and then to finance charges and fees or by agreeing to provide payments or 

credits of finance charges and principal to induce or in exchange for an appropriate customer payment. Application of payments in this manner also permits our collectors to assess real time the degree to which a customer&#8217;s payments over the life of an account have covered the principal credit extensions to the customer. This allows our collectors to readily identify our potential economic loss associated with the charge off of a particular account (i.e., the excess of principal loaned to the customer over payments received back from the customer throughout the life of the account). Our selection of collection techniques, including, for example, the order in which we apply payments or the provision of payments or credits to induce or in exchange for customer payment, impacts the statistical performance of our portfolios that we reflect under the &#8220;Credit and Other Investments Segment&#8221; caption within Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Our collectors employ various and evolving tools when engaging with our customers, and they routinely test and evaluate new tools in their effort toward improving our collections with a greater degree of efficiency. These tools include programs under which we may reduce or eliminate a customer&#8217;s annual percentage rate (&#8220;APR&#8221;) or waive a certain amount of accrued fees, provided the customer makes a minimum number or amount of payments. In some instances, we may agree to match a customer&#8217;s payments, for example, with commensurate payments or reductions of finance charges or waivers of fees. In other situations, we may actually settle with customers and adjust their finance charges and fees, for example, based on their commitment and their follow through on their commitment to pay certain portions of the balances they owe. Our collectors may also decrease a customer&#8217;s minimum payment under certain collection programs. Additionally, we employ re-aging techniques as discussed below. We also may occasionally use our marketing group to assist in determining various programs to assist in the collection process. Moreover, we voluntarily participate in the Consumer Credit Counseling Service (&#8220;CCCS&#8221;) program by waiving a certain percentage of a customer&#8217;s debt that is considered our &#8220;fair share&#8221; under the CCCS program. All of our programs are utilized based on the degree of economic success they achieve. 

We regularly monitor and adapt our collection strategies, techniques, technology and training to optimize our efforts to reduce delinquencies and charge offs. We use our operations systems to develop these proprietary collection strategies and techniques, and we analyze the output from these systems to identify the strategies and techniques that we believe are most likely to result in curing a delinquent account in the most cost-effective manner, rather than treating all accounts the same based on the mere passage of time. 

As in all aspects of our risk management strategies, we compare the results of each of the above strategies with other collection strategies and devote resources to those strategies that yield the best results. Results are measured based on, among other things, delinquency rates, expected losses and costs to collect. Existing strategies are then adjusted based on these results. We believe that routinely testing, measuring and adjusting collection strategies results in lower bad debt losses and operating expenses. 

We discontinue charging interest and fees for most of our credit products when loans and fees receivable become contractually 90 or more days past due and we charge off loans and fees receivable when they become contractually more than 180 days past due or 120 days past due for the point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer installment finance products. For our rent-to-own products, we charge off receivables and impair associated rental merchandise if the customer has not made a payment within the previous 90 days. However, if a customer makes a payment greater than or equal to two minimum payments within a month of the charge-off date, we may reconsider whether charge-off status remains appropriate. For all of our products, we charge off receivables within 30 days of notification and confirmation of a customer&#8217;s bankruptcy or death. However, in some cases of death, we do not charge off receivables if there is a surviving, contractually liable individual or an estate large enough to pay the debt in full. 

Our determination of whether an account is contractually past due is relevant to our delinquency and charge-off data included under the &#8220;Credit and Other Investments Segment&#8221; caption within Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; Various factors are relevant in analyzing whether an account is contractually past due (e.g., whether an account has not satisfied its minimum payment due requirement), which for us is the trigger for moving receivables through our various delinquency stages and ultimately to charge-off status. For our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance accounts, we consider an account to be delinquent if the customer has not made any required payment as of the payment due date. Accounts under our rent-to-own program are considered delinquent if the customer has not made full payment of any rental amount by the due date and has not returned the rental equipment to us. For credit card accounts, we consider a cardholder&#8217;s receivable to be delinquent if the cardholder has failed to pay a minimum amount, computed as the greater of a stated minimum payment or a fixed percentage of the statement balance (for example 3% to 10% of the outstanding balance in some cases or in other cases 1% of the outstanding balance plus any finance charges and late fees billed in the current cycle). 

Additionally, we may re-age customer accounts that meet our qualifications for re-aging. Re-aging involves changing the delinquency status of an account. It is our policy to work cooperatively with customers demonstrating a willingness and 

ability to repay their indebtedness and who satisfy other criteria, but are unable to pay the entire past due amount. Generally, to qualify for re-aging, an account must have been opened for at least nine months and may not be re-aged more than once in a twelve-month period or twice in a five-year period. In addition, an account on a workout program may qualify for one additional re-age in a five-year period. The customer also must have made three consecutive minimum monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount in the last three billing cycles. If a re-aged account subsequently experiences payment defaults, it will again become contractually delinquent and will be charged off according to our regular charge-off policy. The practice of re-aging an account may affect delinquencies and charge offs, potentially delaying or reducing such delinquencies and charge offs. 

Auto Finance Segment. &#32;&#32;Accounts that CAR purchases from approved dealers initially are collected by the originating branch or service center location using a combination of traditional collection practices. The collection process includes contacting the customer by phone or mail, skip tracing and using starter interrupt devices to minimize delinquencies. Uncollectible accounts in our CAR operation generally are returned to the dealer under an agreement with the dealer to charge the balance on the account against the dealer&#8217;s reserve account. We generally do not repossess autos in our CAR operation as a result of the agreements that we have with the dealers unless there are insufficient dealer reserves to offset the loss or if a dealer instructs us to do so. 

Consumer and Debtor Protection Laws and Regulations 

Credit and Other Investments Segment. &#32;&#32;Our U.S. business is regulated directly and indirectly under various federal and state consumer protection, collection and other laws, rules and regulations, including the federal Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the &#8220;CARD Act&#8221;), the federal Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the federal Truth In Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;), the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") Act, the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act. These laws, rules and regulations, among other things, impose disclosure requirements when consumer products are advertised, when an account is opened, when monthly billing statements are sent and when consumer obligations are collected. In addition, various statutes limit the liability of consumers for unauthorized use, prohibit discriminatory practices in consumer transactions, impose limitations on the types of charges that may be assessed and restrict the use of consumer credit reports and other account-related information. Many of our products are designed for customers at the lower end of the credit score range. We price our products to reflect the higher credit risk of our customers. Because of the inherently greater credit risks of these customers and the resulting higher interest and fees, we and our finance partners are subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. If regulators, including the FDIC (which regulates bank lenders), the CFPB and the FTC, object to the terms of these products, or to our marketing or collection practices, we could be required to modify or discontinue certain products or practices. 

In the U.K., our operations are subject to U.K. regulations that provide similar consumer protections to those provided under the U.S. regulatory framework. We are licensed and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"), and we are governed by an extensive legislative and regulatory framework that includes the Consumer Credit Act, the Data Protection Act, Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trading regulations, Financial Services (Distance Marketing) Regulations, the Enterprise Act, Money Laundering Regulations, Financial Ombudsman Service and Advertising Standards Authority adjudications. The aforementioned legislation and regulations impose strict rules on the form and content of consumer contracts, the calculation and presentation of annual percentage rates ("APRs"), advertising in all forms, parties who can be contacted and disclosures to consumers, among others. The regulators, such as the FCA, provide guidance on consumer credit practices including collections. The FCA requires a comprehensive licensing process. We are currently undertaking steps to ensure that we continue to remain in compliance with all regulations. 

Auto Finance Segment. &#32;&#32;This segment is regulated directly and indirectly under various federal and state consumer protection and other laws, rules and regulations, including the federal TILA, the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act. In addition, various state statutes limit the interest rates and fees that may be charged, limit the types of interest computations (e.g., interest bearing or pre-computed) and refunding processes, prohibit discriminatory practices in extending credit, impose limitations on fees and other ancillary products and restrict the use of consumer credit reports and other account-related information. Many of the states in which this segment operates have various licensing requirements and impose certain financial or other conditions in connection with these licensing requirements. 

Privacy and Data Security Laws and Regulations . We are required to manage, use, and store large amounts of personally identifiable information, principally customers&#8217; confidential personal and financial data, in the course of our business. We depend on our IT networks and systems, and those of third parties, to process, store, and transmit that information. In the past, consumer finance companies have been targeted for sophisticated cyber attacks. A security breach 

involving our files and infrastructure could lead to unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We take numerous measures to ensure the security of our hardware and software systems as well as customer information. 

We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect confidential personal and financial data. For example, we must comply with guidelines under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that require each financial institution to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution&#8217;s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution&#8217;s activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. Additionally, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and at least 48 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data security regulations and laws requiring customer notification in the event of a security breach. 

Competition 

Credit and Other Investments Segment. &#32;We face substantial competition from other consumer lenders, the intensity of which varies depending upon economic and liquidity cycles. Our point-of-sale and direct-to-consumer finance activities, rent-to-own and credit card businesses compete with national, regional and local bankcard and consumer credit issuers, other general-purpose credit card issuers and retail credit card and merchant credit issuers. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are, have significantly greater financial resources than we do and have significantly lower costs of funds than we have. 

Auto Finance Segment. &#32;&#32;Competition within the auto finance sector is widespread and fragmented. Our auto finance operations target automobile dealers that oftentimes are not capable of accessing indirect lending from major financial institutions or captive finance companies. We compete mainly with a handful of national and regional companies focused on this credit segment (e.g., Credit Acceptance Corporation, Westlake Financial, Mid-Atlantic Finance, Santander Auto Finance, Western Funding Inc., and America&#8217;s Car-Mart) and a large number of smaller, regional private companies with a narrow geographic focus. Individual dealers with access to capital may also compete in this segment through the purchase of receivables from peer dealers in their markets. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 319 employees, including 7 part-time employees, most of whom are employed within the U.S., principally in Florida and Georgia. Also included in this employee count are 29 employees in the U.K. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees are covered by a collective-bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced any organized work stoppage, strike or labor dispute. 

Trademarks, Trade Names and Service Marks 

We have registered and continue to register, when appropriate, various trademarks, trade names and service marks used in connection with our businesses and for private-label marketing of certain of our products. We consider these trademarks, trade names and service marks to be readily identifiable with, and valuable to, our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains trade names and trademarks of other companies that are the property of their respective owners. 

Additional Information 

We are headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, and our principal executive offices are located at Five Concourse Parkway, Suite 300, Atlanta, Georgia 30328. Our headquarters telephone number is (770) 828-2000, and our website is www.Atlanticus.com . We make available free of charge on our website certain of our recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

Certain corporate governance materials, including our Board of Directors committee charters and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, are posted on our website under the heading &#8220;For Investors.&#8221; From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC or NASDAQ, or as desirable to further the continued effective and efficient governance of our company. 

