 Item 1. Business Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II. 42 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 45 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 83 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 87 PART III. 88 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 PART IV. 89 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule 89 SIGNATURES 90 Exhibit Index E-1 

PART I 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, or incorporates by reference, certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical facts and include, but are not limited to: (1) projections of revenues, expenses, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, cash flow or other financial items; (2) statements of our plans and objectives, including those relating to product releases; (3) statements of future financial or operating performance; (4) statements relating to the acquisition of King Digital Entertainment plc and expected impact of that transaction, including without limitation, the expected impact on Activision Blizzard's future financial results; and (5) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Activision Blizzard, Inc. generally uses words such as "outlook," "forecast," "will," "could," "should," "would," "to be," "plan," "plans," "believes," "may," "might," "expects," "intends," "intends as," "anticipates," "estimate," "future," "positioned," "potential," "project," "remain," "scheduled," "set to," "subject to," "upcoming" and other similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks, reflect management's current expectations, estimates and projections about our business, and are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from expectations stated in forward-looking statements. Some of the risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those stated in forward-looking statements can be found in "Risk Factors" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Although these forward-looking statements are believed to be true when made, they may ultimately prove to be incorrect. These statements are not guarantees of our future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. 

Activision Blizzard Inc.'s names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names of Activision Blizzard. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. 

Overview 

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a worldwide developer and publisher of online, personal computer ("PC"), video game console, handheld, mobile and tablet games. The terms "Activision Blizzard," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We currently offer games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox One ("Xbox One") and Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii U ("Wii U") and Wii ("Wii"), and Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 4 ("PS4") and PlayStation 3 ("PS3") console systems (Xbox One, Wii U, and PS4 are collectively referred to as "next-generation"; Xbox 360, Wii, and PS3 are collectively referred to as "prior-generation"); the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. 

Activision &#151;Through Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading international developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision develops, markets and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in a variety of geographies. Activision continues to focus its efforts in the areas we believe have the most opportunity for growth and higher profitability, while reducing investments in areas we believe have less profit potential and 

limited growth opportunities. To that end, investments are focused on proven intellectual properties to develop deep, high-quality content that offers engaging online gaming experiences. One of Activision's leading franchises is Call of Duty&reg;, which launched in 2003, and has been the best-selling Western interactive franchise since its launch. In 2015, Activision released the latest installment in the franchise, Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which, according to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and Activision Blizzard internal estimates, was the #1 best-selling console game globally in 2015. Activision is currently developing, distributing, and selling additional digital content for the global community of Call of Duty: Black Ops III players, along with content for the other Call of Duty titles, in addition to developing future releases and sequels. 

Another leading franchise for Activision is Skylanders&reg;, which launched in 2011 with the release of Skylanders Spyro's Adventure . Games in the Skylanders franchise combine the use of physical toys with digital interactive experiences to deliver innovative gameplay to our audience. In September 2015, we released Skylanders SuperChargers , which introduced vehicles-to-life&#151;an entirely new way for fans to experience the magic of Skylanders. 

While focusing on proven intellectual properties is one of Activision's priorities, we also continue to make strategic investments in developing new intellectual properties that we believe have the potential for long-term growth and success. For example, on September 15, 2015, we released The Taken King , the third and largest expansion to Destiny , the game universe created by Bungie under our long-term alliance with them. We also introduced microtransactions within Destiny in October 2015 and expect to release additional content to our global community of Destiny players in 2016. 

Blizzard &#151;Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard") is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game ("MMORPG") category in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft&reg; franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo&reg;, StarCraft&reg;, Hearthstone&reg;: Heroes of Warcraft&#153; and Heroes of the Storm&#153; franchises. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net&reg;, which facilitates the creation of user-generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; in-game purchases and services; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. 

Blizzard has released five expansion packs to the epic World of Warcraft franchise since 2004, with the most recent release, World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor &reg;, having been released in November 2014, and the next expansion, World of Warcraft: Legion&#153;, to be released in the summer of 2016. For Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft , in addition to bringing the game to iOS and Android smartphones in April 2015, three new content releases, Blackrock Mountain &#153; , The Grand Tournament &#153;, and The League of Explorers &#153;, were introduced in 2015 and have continued to drive performance. 

Blizzard continues to invest in new opportunities, both by leveraging its internally developed intellectual property, such as the release of Heroes of the Storm in 2015, as well as developing new intellectual property with the upcoming team-based first person shooter, Overwatch &#153;, which is expected to be released commercially in the spring of 2016. 

Other &#151;We also engage in other business opportunities including: 

- The Activision Blizzard Media Networks ("Media Networks") business, announced in 2015, which builds on our efforts in competitive gaming and the growing eSports industry; 4 

- The Activision Blizzard Studios ("Studios") business, announced in 2015, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on the company's extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties; and - The Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Revenues associated with the Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Skylanders, and Destiny franchises combined accounted for 71%, 72%, and 80% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

The Business Combination and Share Repurchase 

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. 

Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ("Business Combination") by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision, Inc., Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), VGAC LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games, Inc. ("Vivendi Games"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGAC LLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision, Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. and Vivendi became a majority shareholder of Activision Blizzard. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol "ATVI." 

On October 11, 2013, we repurchased approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") we entered into with Vivendi and ASAC II LP ("ASAC"), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, acting by its general partner, ASAC II LLC. Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we acquired all of the capital stock of Amber Holding Subsidiary Co., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi ("New VH"), which was the direct owner of approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, for a cash payment of $5.83 billion, or $13.60 per share, before taking into account the benefit to the Company of certain tax attributes of New VH assumed in the transaction (collectively, the "Purchase Transaction"). Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the financing of the Purchase Transaction. 

Immediately following the completion of the Purchase Transaction, ASAC purchased from Vivendi 172 million shares of our common stock, pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, for a cash payment of $2.34 billion, or $13.60 per share (the "Private Sale"). Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC. 

On May 28, 2014, Vivendi sold approximately 41 million shares, or approximately 50% of its then-current holdings, of our common stock in a registered public offering. Vivendi received proceeds of approximately $850 million from that sale; we did not receive any proceeds. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 734 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date, (i) Vivendi held 41 million shares, or approximately 6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, (ii) ASAC held 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (iii) our other stockholders held approximately 71% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. 

On January 13, 2016, Vivendi sold all of their remaining shares of our common stock. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale. 

The King Acquisition 

On November 2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainment plc, a leading interactive entertainment company for the mobile world incorporated under the laws of Ireland ("King"), entered into a Transaction Agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") under the terms of which we would acquire King (the "King Acquisition") and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February 23, 2016 we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement. We transferred $5.9 billion in consideration to the existing King shareholders and share-based award holders. 

The Company made this acquisition because it believes that the addition of King's highly-complementary mobile business will position the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console and PC platforms, and positions the company for future growth. The combined company has a world-class interactive entertainment portfolio of top-performing franchises. 

As the closing of the King Acquisition occurred subsequent to December 31, 2015, our financial results as of, and for the year ended December 31, 2015, do not contain the results of King. 

Our Strategy 

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of high-quality interactive entertainment software, online content and services that deliver year-round, highly satisfying and engaging entertainment experiences. 

Continue to Improve Profitability. We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating efficiency with the goal of increased profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to benefit from the continued growth of online and digital revenue opportunities. 

Create Shareholder Value. We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder returns through profitable operations and strong cash flows. As a result, we expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and to deliver returns to our shareholders. 

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources, the geographic reach of our products, and our intellectual properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key licensing transactions. We will also continue to invest in, and build on, existing alliances and relationships. In addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms. 

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services. We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and develop direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhance the online communities for our games and franchises. We believe that focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and social connectivity, provides lasting value to our global communities of players. In addition, we continue to expand into new business models for the digital delivery of content, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game microtransactions along with increased in-game microtransactions within our purchased software products. We are also focused on increasing our presence on new digital platforms, such as mobile and tablet devices. 

Extend the Reach of our Existing Franchises. We are focused on identifying and investing in business opportunities that extend our existing franchises into adjacent entertainment verticals, deepen audience engagement by celebrating our players, deliver high production values to our communities, and provide greater opportunities for player investment. This includes investments in our Media Networks and Studios businesses. Our Media Networks business acquired Major League Gaming Inc. ("MLG") which provides an immediate expansion of our reach across the rapidly-growing eSports ecosystem by adding proven live streaming capabilities and technologies. Competitive gaming and the spectator opportunities connected to organized gaming competitions could provide opportunities for shareholders and great rewards and recognition for our hundreds of millions of players. Our Studios business is focused on producing an animated Skylanders television series which we expect to release in the fall of 2016 and has begun work on developing a robust cinematic universe based on the Call of Duty franchise. 

Competition 

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, music and other consumer products. 

The interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to large corporations who may have greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and allocation of resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees for licenses, and pay more to third-party software developers than we do. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service. 

We compete primarily with other publishers of PC, online, mobile, and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game console hardware and software companies, such as Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. A number of software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Further, we compete with publishers of mobile games, who may be narrowly focused on publishing games for mobile and tablet devices. Lastly, with our Skylanders franchise and its toys and accessories, we compete indirectly with companies who sell toys to our target consumers for this franchise. We expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the "toys to life", MMORPG, free-to-play and other microtransaction-based game categories. Notably in 2015, the toys to life category became more competitive with a new entrant competing directly with us and other incumbents. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 7,300 total full-time and part-time employees. At December 31, 2015, approximately 110 of our full-time employees were subject to fixed-term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employee and the Company to employment terms of between one and five years from the commencement of the agreement. Most 

of our employees who are subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors, or marketing product managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production and distribution phases of our entertainment software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities. Some employees outside of the United States ("U.S.") are also party to employment agreements that do not specify a fixed term. 

The majority of our employees in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy are subject to collective agreements as a part of normal business practices in those countries. In addition, certain employees in those countries are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages. 

Intellectual Property 

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games. 

We develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles, as well as handheld, mobile and tablet platforms, include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device manufacturer, and is licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at reasonable rates. 

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code in our products. Moreover, we own or license the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the U.S. and in other countries as appropriate. 

We often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world. 

Significant Customers 

We had two customers, Sony and Microsoft, who accounted for 12% and 10% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, respectively. We did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014 or 2013. We had three customers, Sony, Microsoft, and Wal-Mart, who accounted for 18%, 13%, 

and 11% of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2015, respectively, and 13%, 17%, and 11% of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2014, respectively. 

Reportable Segments 

We have two reportable operating segments: (i) Activision Publishing, Inc. and its subsidiaries&#151;publishing interactive entertainment software products and downloadable content, and (ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries&#151;publishing real-time strategy games, role-playing games and online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category. Previously, we reported "Distribution" as a reportable segment. In the current period, this was no longer deemed a separate reportable segment and is included in "Other" along with our recently announced Media Networks and Studios businesses. 

See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographical performance. 

Activision&#151;Business Overview 

Strategy 

Create, Acquire and Maintain Strong Franchises. Activision focuses on development and publishing activities, principally for products and content that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition and year-round engagement. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for sequels, prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. Our successful intellectual properties include the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, and we intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We also have an exclusive long-term alliance with Bungie, the developer of the successful Destiny franchise. 

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes. The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part, on our ability to develop high-quality content that will generate significant demand among our global communities. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection, development, production and quality assurance of that content. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products and content, whether they are externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes regular in-depth reviews at important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and enables coordination among our sales, marketing and development staff at each step in the process. 

We develop our content and products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe enhances the quality of our products and accelerates the timing of releases. 

Focused Content and Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies. We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost structure to position the business for long-term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels that allow us to deliver content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults and from core gamers to mass-market consumers and to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in a variety of geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish and distribute operate on the PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Wii U, and Wii console systems, and the PC. 

Products 

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from its internally-developed intellectual property, Call of Duty. Our latest release, Call of Duty: Black Ops III , was released on November 6, 2015, and was the #1 best-selling console game globally for 2015, according to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and our internal estimates. 

On September 20, 2015, Activision launched Skylanders SuperChargers , the fifth title in our Skylanders franchise, an internally-developed intellectual property that combines the use of physical toys with video games to deliver innovative gameplay experiences to our audience. Specifically, the games in the Skylanders franchise involve "smart toys" consisting of action figures and accessories and an electronic "portal" which, when used with a figure or accessory, allows a player to store and access information about his or her performance in the game. We sell the toys and accessories both bundled with the software for the titles and on a stand-alone basis. Skylanders SuperChargers continues with the innovative "toys to life" concept with the new "vehicles to life" concept which includes online multiplayer and racing gameplay. 

On September 9, 2014, Activision released Bungie's Destiny , an online universe of first-person action gameplay which we have called the world's first "shared-world shooter". On May 19, 2015, Activision released House of Wolves , the second expansion to Destiny, and on September 15, 2015, Activision released The Taken King , the third and largest expansion to Destiny. 

Activision also develops products spanning other genres, including first-person action, action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy. 

Product Development and Support 

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production and technical professionals, in coordination with our marketing, finance and other departments, has responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and external resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete and release content through, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters, sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios. 

Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top-quality external resources on an as-needed basis. 

In addition, Activision periodically engages independent third-party developers to create content on Activision's behalf. We may either own or have rights to commercially exploit these products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product, or reserve certain exploitation rights with respect thereto. Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our third-party developers is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are, or will be, independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements with these developers typically provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to the product initially being produced by the independent developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to further product development. 

In consideration for the services that external third-party developers provide, the developers can sometimes receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income of the developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties 

otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages. The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with external developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to proprietary development technologies. 

In April 2010, Activision entered into a long-term exclusive relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises including Halo, Myth and Marathon, to bring Bungie's next big action game universe, Destiny , to market. During the term of the agreement, Activision has exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based on Destiny on multiple platforms. 

Activision provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed content. Activision's central technology and development teams review, assess and provide support to products throughout their milestone development phases. Quality assurance personnel are also involved throughout the development and production of published content. Activision subjects all such content to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our content, Activision generally provides 24-hour online access to customer service representatives, as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours. 

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution 

Many of our products contain software that enables customers to "electronically register" with us online, which allows us to connect with our gamers directly. This provides a significant marketing tool for direct advertising with our customers and customization of in-game advertising based on customer preferences and trends. Additionally, Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other online social networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts. 

We believe that our strong proven franchises generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to engage with our franchises and purchase additional content as a result of their dedication to a franchise and satisfaction from previous content purchases. We therefore market this additional content, including sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content, toward the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In addition, we believe that we derive benefits for our licensed properties from the marketing and promotional activities undertaken by the underlying intellectual property owners, in addition to our own marketing efforts. 

North American Retail Sales and Distribution. Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America. Our North American retail customers include, among others, Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart. 

In the U.S. and Canada, our products are primarily sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and game specialty stores, as well to consumers through direct digital purchases. We believe that a direct relationship with retailers results in more effective inventory management, merchandising and communications than would be possible through indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our 

retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a limited number of distributors. 

International Retail Sales and Distribution. Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international publishing activities through offices in Australia, China, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom ("U.K."). We often seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high-quality foreign language releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories. 

Digital Distribution. Online and digital distribution channels are continuing to grow and comprise a significant part of our business. Most of our products and content are sold in a digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console system, or handheld, mobile or tablet device. We partner with digital distributors to utilize this growing method of distribution. We also make downloadable content and in-game microtransactions available to our customers to enhance their gaming experience through the digital online services mainly provided by Microsoft and Sony. In addition, we are exploring new business models involving digital distribution, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game microtransactions. 

Manufacturing 

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony systems, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Activision-owned distribution facilities. 

To maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their hardware technologies to us. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label. At the time our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately sell. 

Blizzard&#151;Business Overview 

Strategy 

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online Categories. Currently, Blizzard operates five franchises, with a sixth slated for release in the spring of 2016. Our games are available in many countries and regions including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in online gaming by regularly providing new content, game features and online services to further enhance the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies. 

Blizzard's strategy encompasses a careful and long-held approach to growing its community and deepening its engagement with high-quality content. 

Products 

World of Warcraft , the leading subscription-based MMORPG and #1 PC franchise by lifetime revenues, was initially launched in November 2004. World of Warcraft is available in multiple languages and has earned awards and praise from publications around the world. Since the first release of World of Warcraft , Blizzard has launched five expansion packs in all regions in which the game is supported. The most recent expansion, World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor , which was released in November 2014. We expect the next expansion, World of Warcraft: Legion , to be released in the summer of 2016. 

In July 2010, Blizzard launched the real-time strategy PC game, StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty &reg;, simultaneously around the world. The first game in the StarCraft franchise was released in 1998 and was an early leader in global eSports and remains so today. In November 2015, Blizzard released the second expansion pack, StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void &#153;, completing the StarCraft II trilogy. 

In May 2012, Blizzard released the action role-playing game Diablo III for the PC at retail and through digital distribution. The first Diablo game was released in 1996. In subsequent years, Blizzard released an expansion pack for the game, Reaper of Souls &#153;, that was also made available on next-generation and prior-generation consoles. In June 2015, Diablo III and its expansion were released for PC in China. 

Blizzard commercially launched Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, an online collectible card game, in March 2014. Later in 2014, additional content for the game was released, and versions of the game for iOS, Android, and Windows tablet devices became available. In April 2015, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft was released for iOS and Android smartphones. Three new content releases were also introduced in 2015, with the most recent being the game's third adventure pack, The League of Explorers , in November 2015. Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft was Blizzard's first free-to play game. 

In June 2015, Blizzard released Heroes of the Storm , a new online hero brawler. Heroes of the Storm brings together a diverse cast of iconic characters from Blizzard's realms of science fiction and fantasy, including the Warcraft&reg;, StarCraft, and Diablo universes. The game is free to play, while individual heroes, skins, and other items can be purchased (or earned) in-game. 

Additionally, Blizzard maintains an online gaming service, Battle.net. Battle.net facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. 

Product Development and Support 

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo, StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, and Heroes of the Storm franchises, Blizzard focuses on creating well-designed, high-quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To maintain player engagement and attract new players, Blizzard continues to develop new expansions and patches to upgrade its games. In addition to its headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; San Francisco, California; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan to provide 24/7 game support to players of World of Warcraft and other Blizzard games in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing initiatives to specific regions. 

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution 

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; add-on services and products such as card packs, heroes, realm transfers, faction changes, character level boost, character customizations and skin, and other cosmetic and functional items; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute World of Warcraft, 

Diablo, StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, and Heroes of the Storm products. Many of our services and products are digitally enabled, which allows us to take advantage of these rapidly growing channels and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the online gaming service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online game-related services in the world. The service offers players communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing. 

Other&#151;Business Overview 

Media Networks 

Media Networks is a new division devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. On December 22, 2015, we acquired the business of Major League Gaming, Inc. to expand our reach across the rapidly-growing eSports ecosystem by adding proven live streaming capabilities and technologies to the Media Networks division. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding the acquisition of MLG. 

Studios 

The launch in 2015 of our film and television studios business is an important step in implementing our strategy of expanding the platforms through which we offer our compelling intellectual property to existing fans and new audiences around the world. This includes an animated Skylanders television series which is already in production and expected to be released in the fall of 2016. In the longer term we are working on developing a robust cinematic universe based on the Call of Duty franchise. 

Distribution 

Through our Distribution business we distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries: Centresoft, in the U.K., and NBG, in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail sector of the U.K. 

Additional Financial Information 

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographic areas. See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information regarding product development expense during the past three years. 

Available Information 

Our website located at http://www.activisionblizzard.com allows access free-of-charge to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

