 Item 1. Description of Business 

Forward-looking statements 

Statements made in this Form 10-K that are not historical or current facts are "forward-looking statements" made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate" or "continue," or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

Financial information contained in this report and in our financial statements is stated in United States dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. 

General 

Our company Addentax Group Corp. was incorporated in the State of Nevada on October 28, 2014 and established a fiscal year-end of March 31. We have generated limited revenues, have minimal assets and have generated a net loss of $9,553 since inception. We are a development-stage company created for producing images on multiple surfaces, such as glass, leather, plastic, ceramic, textile, and others using 3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machine. We have recently started our operation. As of today, we have developed our business plan, purchased and set up our first machine, signed a contract for the sale of goods with Derb il Horra dated February 3, 2015. The Company generated revenue of $6,780 from Derb il Horra for the sale of printed products and entered into a Lease Agreement with Samir Mustafajev for office space, came into force from March 1, 2015. To the date we have set up our first heat transfer machine, tested its operation and produced a range of demonstration samples for attraction of potential business partners. We may not be able to provide enough revenue to cover the company&#146;s operating expenses during the next twelve months. We plan to purchase one more heat transfer machine if we sell 1/3 of the shares, and purchase two or three more, if we sell 2/3 of our offering and all of the shares respectively. Our director will fund our initial administrative expenses using his own funds.

We need funding to purchase and deliver additional heat transfer machines, to cover general running and administrative expenses, business development and marketing, auxiliary materials, expenses connected with company public presentation, payment of salaries and purchase of raw materials. Our business office is located at 70, Av Allan Ben Abdellah, Fes, Morocco 30000. Our telephone number is +17026606161.

Our Business 

The Company is working on a field of producing images on a surface such as glass, leather, plastic, ceramic, textile, and others using 3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machines. Heat transfer technology is one of most economical methods of application. This modern technology has been quiet popular for many years and has not lost its relevance. Materials for images can be varied, such as ceramics, glass, crockery of different quality, metal, clothing, caps, bags, leather products and other products. Our products are intended for individuals, business owners associated with the sale of souvenirs, and business owners who intend to order souvenirs in the corporate style. In order to organize our business, we need equipment and supplies, so that we can make the images on customer&#146;s products, and then we will rent more warehouse space for goods on which to apply the images. We plan to conclude a contract of carriage with local shipping companies for delivery of our goods to other cities such as Meknes, Rabat, Kenitra and worldwide. 

Morocco is popular tourist country. We plan to find customers in the nearest cities, such as Rabat, Kenitra, and Marrakech and sell our products to them on a regular basis. If we are successful in attracting new customers in the nearest cities, we will sign contracts with local delivery companies in the future to deliver our goods to those customers. 

When, and if, the Company succeeds in attracting new customers and the capital of the Company grows, we plan to expand our business to the nearer countries, such as Algeria, and Tunis and in a positive scenario worldwide in the future. 

Once our business grows and we are able to expand it to other countries such as Algeria and Tunis, we plan to rent a small office in one of these countries, in a tourist attractive city and use the same business plan that we implemented in Fes, Morocco. We believe that expansion of our printing business to other countries will take approximately two years. 

Having additional customers and sales will positively impact our printing business, as we will have more orders and become well known in the industry and our revenues will grow accordingly. We believe that our future customers will recommend our printing service to others.

3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machine 

We plan to purchase 3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machine to apply images on many surfaces. The 3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machine does not require high technical skills for product production. A set of printing machines includes the machine itself and all raw materials necessary for setting up and testing, and raw materials for production process. 

An industrial flatbed printing machine is not large, user-friendly, and is simple in maintaining and doesn&#146;t require any special service. At this time we have already purchased one 3D sublimation vacuum heat transfer machine , produced by the Chinese company PANDA ONE HOLDINGS LIMITED.

Technical characteristics: 

Model Number: 

MA3 

Rated Voltage: 

220V/110V

Material: aluminum and iron

Weight: 

23 kg

Dimensions: 

330*430*120 mm

Work table size: 330*430 mm

Production capacity: 

15 mugs for 480s (depending on type of materials and size) 

Target market 

We can determine two different directions our product can cover - corporate and private. By corporate, we mean large and small companies, who always care about image and updating company information. Corporate styles of any company are often reflected by printed images on pens, souvenirs, notepads, laptops and others. We are ready to provide image printing on any of the aforesaid products. By private we mean any private events, where memorable gifts can be suitable. Weddings, birthdays, and anniversaries &#150; any holiday of any scale can become even more memorable with some kind of commemorative image on a glass or metal souvenir, which can be hung on the wall, for example. Addentax Group Corp . is able to offer any type of client the printed product that can meet its special requirements.

We have signed a contract for the sale of goods with Derb il Horra, a small enterprise, which is involved mostly in selling souvenirs not only in Fes, also in another cities of Morocco. 

Marketing 

Our sole officer and director, Otmane Tajmouati, will be responsible for the marketing of the Company. We intend to use marketing strategies, such as the web, namely dissemination of information on social networks such as Facebook, Twitter and on sites with ads, direct mailing, distribution of flyers in hotels, cafes and restaurants, handing out flyers in public and tourist spots, shopping malls to acquire potential customers. We believe that one of the most powerful aspects of online marketing is the ability to target our chosen group with a high degree of accuracy and in a cost effective way. We will use many online marketing tools to direct traffic to our website and identify potential customers. As of the date of this prospectus we have registered domain names for our website www.addentaxgroup.com and have filled it with initial information about the Company and its products. To accomplish this, we plan to contact an independent web designing company. Our website describes our products, shows our contact information, and includes some general information and pictures of our products. We also plan to attend shows and exhibitions in our industry and other related industries, where it would be appropriate to attract new customers and advertising for our products. We will also promote our products through word of mouth.

Also we have prepared a brochure for representing Addentax Group Corp. and our business, which contains basic information about the Company. We believe it will help us in our marketing at the start of our production process for making our products better known to potential customers. 

Storage and delivery 

The product produced by Addentax Group Corp. does not require any storage facilities. It will be produced directly for each order. The number of demonstration samples kept is insignificant and doesn&#146;t require any special premises for storage. We are going to sign a contract with a freight company on a regular basis for delivering our products. We expect that the term of delivery shall not be more 

than 15 days, which shall include product production and the process of product acceptance by the client.. Our machines will be located at our leased premises in Rue du Somalie, Fes 30060, Morocco.

Competition 

We will be in a market where we compete with other companies offering similar products. We will be in direct competition with them. Many of these companies may have a greater, more established customer base than us. We will likely lose business to such companies. Also, many of these companies will be able to afford to offer better prices for similar products, which may also harm our business. We foresee that we will continue to face challenges from new market entrants. We may be unable to continue to compete effectively with these existing or new competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Nearly all of Addentax Group Corp.'s competitors have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise, and managerial capabilities than Addentax Group Corp. We are, consequently, at a competitive disadvantage in being able to provide such products and become a successful printing company. Therefore, Addentax Group Corp. may not be able to establish itself within the industry at all.

Insurance 

We do not maintain any insurance and do not intend to maintain insurance in the future. Because we do not have any insurance, if we are made a party of a products liability action, we may not have sufficient funds to defend the litigation. If that occurs a judgment could be rendered against us that could cause us to cease operations.

Employees 

We are a development stage company and as of March 31, 2016 have no employees, other than our sole officer, Otmane Tajmouati - who will initially perform all works in production and organization of our business.

Offices 

Our production office is located at Rue du Somalie, Fes 30060, Morocco. The property is 30 square meters and located on a shopping center, which makes the ordering more convenient to the potential customer. Our phone number is +17026606161. We have signed a Lease Agreement with Samir Mustafajev.

Government Regulation 

We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to our business in any jurisdiction which we would conduct activities. We do not believe that regulation will have a material impact on the way we conduct our business.

