 ITEM 1. 

Business

Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to advancing a broad portfolio of targeted therapeutics for oncology and other areas of unmet medical need. Our proprietary platform has delivered unique insights into cancer and related diseases. Our strategy is to leverage these biomarker insights and partner resources to advance the development of our clinical pipeline. We are focused on developing our lead candidate tivozanib in North America as a treatment for renal cell carcinoma and other cancers. We have entered into partnerships to fund the further development of three of our four clinical stage assets, including AV-380, ficlatuzumab, and tivozanib in non-oncologic indications worldwide and oncology indications outside North America. We are also seeking a partnership for AV-203, our fourth development program. These programs and partnerships are described as follows:

&#160;

&#183; 

Tivozanib: Tivozanib is a potent, selective, long half-life vascular endothelial growth factor (&#8220;VEGF&#8221;) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (&#8220;TKI&#8221;) of VEGF receptors 1, 2 and 3. In 2006, we acquired the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize tivozanib in all countries outside of Asia under a license from Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. (formerly Kirin Brewery Co. Ltd.), or KHK. We have programs to evaluate tivozanib in several tumor types, including renal cell, colorectal and breast cancer. We are evaluating all options for funding the clinical and regulatory advancement of tivozanib in the programs discussed below, including through partnership with one or more third parties. 

RCC First Line Phase 3 Trial (TIVO-1) : We conducted a global phase 3 clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of tivozanib with Nexavar &#174; (sorafenib), an approved therapy, for first-line treatment of renal cell carcinoma, or RCC. The trial met its primary endpoint for progression-free survival, or PFS, but showed a non-statistically significant trend favoring the sorafenib arm in overall survival, or OS. In June 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, issued a complete response letter informing us that it would not approve tivozanib for the treatment of first line advanced RCC based on the study data from this trial, and recommended that we perform an additional study adequately sized to assure the FDA that there is no adverse effect on OS. 

In January 2015, we announced our receipt of confirmation from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, that tivozanib is eligible for submission of an application for a European Union Marketing Authorization under the Agency&#8217;s centralized procedure for the treatment of RCC. Confirmation of eligibility for submission is not predictive of the EMA&#8217;s approval of a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA. Tivozanib has previously been granted orphan drug designation in Europe for the treatment of RCC. Our partner, EUSA Pharma (UK) Limited, or EUSA, submitted a MAA for tivozanib for the treatment of RCC to the EMA in February 2016 based on our existing dataset, which includes the results from the TIVO-1 study of tivozanib in the first-line treatment of RCC.

TIVO-1 Extension Study (One-way Crossover from Sorafenib to Tivozanib) : We have completed a TIVO-1 extension study, known as Study 902, in which patients with advanced RCC received tivozanib as second-line treatment subsequent to disease progression on the sorafenib arm in the TIVO-1 first-line RCC trial. We presented the final results at the 2015 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting on June 1, 2015. The final results show a median PFS of 11.0 months and median OS of 21.6 months, demonstrating the clinically meaningful efficacy of tivozanib in a VEGF treatment refractory population. We believe that the long OS derived from tivozanib following sorafenib in Study 902 contributed to the discordance in the results between the PFS benefit which significantly favored tivozanib and the OS which trended in favor of sorafenib in the TIVO-1 trial. 

RCC Third Line Phase 3 Trial (TIVO-3) : We are planning to conduct a phase 3 trial of tivozanib in the third-line treatment of patients with refractory RCC. The study will use PFS as the primary endpoint and OS as a secondary endpoint to support a request for regulatory approval of tivozanib as a third-line treatment and to address the overall survival concerns from TIVO-1 as a first-line treatment presented in the June 2013 complete response letter from the FDA. Our study design, which we have shared with the FDA, contemplates a randomized, controlled, multi-center, open-label phase 3 study of approximately 322 subjects randomized 1:1 to receive either tivozanib or sorafenib. Subjects enrolled in the study may include those who have received prior immunotherapy, including immune checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitors, reflecting a potentially evolving treatment landscape. The primary objective of the study would be to show improved PFS. Secondary endpoints would include OS and objective response rate, or ORR, as well as safety and pharmacokinetic endpoints. 

RCC PD-1 Combination Trial : We are designing a phase 1 study of tivozanib combined with a PD-1 inhibitor for the treatment of patients with RCC. We are evaluating all options for funding, including partnerships, for the clinical and regulatory advancement of tivozanib in combination with PD-1 inhibitors in RCC. 

CRC Phase 2 Results : In March 2015, we announced results from a predefined biomarker analysis of our BATON-CRC study, a randomized phase 2 clinical trial of modified FOLFOX6, a commonly used chemotherapy, combined with tivozanib or Avastin &#174; (bevacizumab), which both target angiogenesis signaling pathways, in first line treatment of metastatic CRC. In this study, among prospectively defined biomarkers, patients with low (below the median, 

representing 50% of the population) serum neuropilin-1, or NRP-1, a cell surface protein that modulates blood vessel development , showed an improved PFS versus patients with high serum NRP-1 in both treatment arms, supporting the value of serum NRP-1 as a potential prognostic marker for angiogenesis inhibitors. Further, in the subgroup with samples available at the interim analysis, patients identified using a research-use assay to have low serum NRP-1 demonstrated longer PFS when treated with tivozanib compared to bevacizumab, which suggests that first line colorectal cancer patients with low NRP-1 levels may benefit from treatment with tivozanib over bevacizumab, a standard of care in this disease. In April 2015, we presented the r esults from the phase 2 BATON-CRC study and the Company&#8217;s ongoing assay development efforts to the FDA in connection with our evaluation of a proposed pivotal phase 3 trial of tivozanib in CRC. &#160; In response to questions we posed to the FDA regarding this proposed trial, the FDA suggested that we continue work on the development of our biomarker assay to address variability between assays presented . As such, we hope to identify a commercially viable assay, which may enable a prospectively defined, randomized Phase 2 or Phase 3 study. 

Tivozanib Partnerships : 

EUSA License Agreement: In December 2015, we entered into a license agreement with EUSA under which we granted EUSA the right to develop and commercialize tivozanib for all diseases and conditions in humans, excluding non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye, in Europe (excluding Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States), Latin America (excluding Mexico), Africa, Australasia and New Zealand. EUSA submitted a MAA for tivozanib for the treatment of RCC with the EMA in February 2016. 

Pharmstandard License Agreement: In August 2015, we entered into a license agreement under which we granted to a subsidiary of Pharmstandard OJSC, or Pharmstandard, the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize tivozanib in the territories of Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States, or CIS, for all conditions excluding non-oncologic ocular conditions. Under this agreement, Pharmstandard is responsible for all activities and costs associated with the further development, regulatory filings, health services and commercialization of tivozanib in the specified territories. In December 2015, Pharmstandard submitted an application for marketing authorization for tivozanib based on TIVO-1 results in Russia that was accepted by the Ministry of Health in February 2016. 

Ophthotech Option for Ocular Conditions (Non-Oncologic) : In November 2014, we entered into a research and exclusive option agreement with Ophthotech Corporation, or Ophthotech, under which we granted Ophthotech an option to develop and commercialize tivozanib outside of Asia for the potential diagnosis, prevention and treatment of non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye in humans. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Ficlatuzumab: Ficlatuzumab is a potent Hepatocyte Growth Factor, or HGF, inhibitory antibody. HGF is the sole known ligand of the c-Met receptor which is believed to trigger many activities that are involved in cancer development and metastasis. We have completed two phase 1 clinical studies of ficlatuzumab administered as a single agent and in combination with erlotinib, a TKI, of the epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, and a phase 2 clinical study evaluating ficlatuzumab in combination with gefitinib, an EGFR TKI, in first line non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC. The phase 2 trial failed to demonstrate a statistically significant benefit in the intent-to-treat population. However, an exploratory analysis using a serum-based proteomic diagnostic test, known as VeriStrat &#174; , identified a sub-population of patients who experienced a progression free survival and overall survival benefit from the addition of ficlatuzumab to gefitinib. VeriStrat is commercially available to help physicians guide treatment decisions for patients with second line advanced NSCLC. Data from the exploratory analyses with VeriStrat prompted the development of a separate investigational companion diagnostic test called BDX004. Based upon the exploratory analyses, BDX004 may be indicative of a predictive biomarker for the combination of ficlatuzumab and EGFR TKI over EGFR TKI alone in the first line EGFR mutation patients who have been previously identified to not respond well to the current standard of care. 

In April 2014, we entered into a worldwide agreement with Biodesix, Inc., or Biodesix, to develop and commercialize ficlatuzumab with BDX004, a serum based diagnostic test which has been derived from the VeriStrat test, employing the same methodology and data processing algorithms as VeriStrat, for use in a confirmatory clinical trial. Pursuant to the Biodesix agreement, in December 2014 we initiated a phase 2 confirmatory study of ficlatuzumab, which we refer to as the FOCAL study, in combination with erlotinib in first line advanced NSCLC patients who have an EGFR mutation and who are identified by the BDX004 test as being most likely to benefit from the addition of ficlatuzumab to the EGFR TKI. We began enrolling patients during the second half of 2015. Biodesix will fund up to $15 million of the cost of this study, as well as all of the costs associated with development and registration of BDX004, and any additional development, regulatory and commercial costs for ficlatuzumab will be shared equally. Under the Biodesix agreement, subject to regulatory approval, AVEO would lead worldwide commercialization of ficlatuzumab. 

&#160;

&#183; 

AV-203: AV-203 is a potent anti-ErbB3 (also known as HER3) specific monoclonal antibody with high ErbB3 affinity. We have observed potent anti-tumor activity in mouse models. AV-203 selectively inhibits the activity of the ErbB3 receptor, and our preclinical studies suggest that neuregulin-1, or NRG1 (also known as heregulin), levels predict AV-203 anti-tumor activity in preclinical models. We have completed a phase 1 dose escalation study of AV-203, which 

&#160;

established a recommended phase 2 dose of AV-203 at 20mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks, demonstrated good tolerability and promising early signs of activity, and reached the maximum planned dose of AV-203 monotherapy. No anti-drug antibodies were detected, and pharmacokinetic results indicated a dose-proportional increase in levels of AV-203. 

The expansion cohort of this study among patients with a specific biomarker has been discontinued. We are seeking to pursue further clinical development of AV-203 with a strategic partner.

&#160;

&#183; 

AV-380: AV-380 is a potent humanized IgG1 inhibitory monoclonal antibody targeting growth differentiating factor-15, or GDF15, a divergent member of the TGF-&#223; family, for the potential treatment or prevention of cachexia. Cachexia is defined as a multi-factorial syndrome of involuntary weight loss characterized by an ongoing loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be fully reversed by conventional nutritional support and leads to progressive functional impairment. Cachexia is associated with various cancers as well as diseases outside of cancer including chronic kidney disease, congestive heart failure, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD. We believe that AV-380 represents a unique approach to treating cachexia because it addresses key underlying mechanisms of the syndrome and focuses on a significant area of patient need. It is estimated that approximately 30% of all cancer patients die due to cachexia and over half of cancer patients who die do so with cachexia present. ( J Cachexia Sarcopenia Muscle 2010). In the United States alone, the estimated prevalence of cancer cachexia is over 400,000 patients, and the prevalence of cachexia due to cancer, COPD, congestive heart failure, frailty and end stage renal disease combined is estimated to total more than 5 million patients ( Am J Clin Nutr 2006). 

In September 2014, we presented the results from four preclinical studies of AV-380 in various in vivo cachexia models and in vitro assays at the 2 nd Cancer Cachexia Conference held in Montreal Canada. Our research was also selected for presentation in an oral session at the conference. In April 2015, we also presented the results from a preclinical study of AV-380 in a cachectic human tumor xenograft model at the Annual Meeting of the American Association of Cancer Research. We have established preclinical proof of concept for GDF15 as a key driver of cachexia by demonstrating, in animal models, that the administration of GDF15 induces cachexia, and that inhibition of GDF15 reverses cachexia and provides a potential indication of an overall survival benefit.

In August 2015, we entered into a license agreement under which we granted Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., or Novartis, the exclusive right to develop and commercialize AV-380 and related AVEO antibodies. Under this agreement, Novartis is responsible for all activities and costs associated with the further development, regulatory filing and commercialization of AV-380 worldwide.

In connection with the AV-380 program, we have in-licensed certain patents and patent applications from St. Vincent&#8217;s Hospital in Sydney, Australia. We have demonstrated preclinical proof-of-concept for AV-380 in multiple cancer cachexia models and have completed cell line development.

Product Pipeline

We were founded with the goal of developing a fundamentally new kind of pre-clinical cancer model designed to overcome many of the limitations of traditional xenograft models, and thereby improve the probability of success in developing new cancer drugs. We utilized these novel models to identify and validate target genes that drive tumor growth, to identify drugs that can block the function of these targets, and to identify patients who are most likely to respond favorably to treatment with such drugs. Our cancer models, together with the various techniques we developed to use these models to aid in the discovery and development of new cancer drugs, were used to develop our product pipeline and are collectively referred to as our Human Response Platform.

Tivozanib: Inhibitor of VEGF Receptors 1, 2 &#38; 3

Tivozanib is a potent, selective long half-life inhibitor of all three VEGF receptors that is designed to optimize VEGF blockade while minimizing off-target toxicities. The demonstrated clinical results for tivozanib are supported by its core biochemical properties of potency, selectivity and long half-life inhibition of all three VEGF receptors. The potency of tivozanib across VEGF receptors 1, 2 and 3 provides a comprehensive blockade of the VEGF pathway. Its high level of selectivity for all three VEGF receptors is designed to minimize unintended side effects, such as fatigue, diarrhea and hand-foot syndrome, which are often associated with the currently approved therapies. Hypertension and dysphonia were the most commonly reported side effects in patients treated with tivozanib.

In 2012, we announced detailed data from our global, phase 3 clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of tivozanib with Nexavar &#174; (sorafenib), an approved therapy, for first-line treatment of RCC. This phase 3 trial met its primary endpoint PFS but showed a non-statistically significant trend favoring the sorafenib arm in overall survival. Based on a review of our application for approval of the use of tivozanib for the treatment of first line advanced RCC, in June 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a complete response letter informing us that they would not approve tivozanib at this time based on these study data.

In August 2014, our collaboration and license agreement with Astellas terminated, at which time all rights for the development and commercialization of tivozanib reverted to AVEO. We had entered into the collaboration and license agreement with Astellas in February 2011, pursuant to which we and Astellas shared responsibility for tivozanib, including expenses for continued development and any future commercialization of tivozanib, in North America and Europe. Upon reversion back to AVEO of rights previously granted to Astellas, we reevaluated our tivozanib regulatory and development strategy, as well as partnering opportunities. 

In January 2015, we announced our receipt of confirmation from the European Medicine Agency that tivozanib is eligible for submission of an application for a European Union Marketing Authorization under the Agency&#8217;s centralized procedure for the treatment of RCC. Confirmation of eligibility for submission is not predictive of the European Medicines Agency&#8217;s approval of a Marketing Authorization Application. Tivozanib has previously been granted orphan drug designation in Europe for the treatment of RCC. In December 2015, we entered into a license agreement with EUSA, under which we granted EUSA the right to develop and commercialize tivozanib for all diseases and conditions in humans, excluding non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye, in Europe (excluding Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States), Latin America (excluding Mexico), Africa, Australasia and New Zealand. EUSA submitted a MAA for tivozanib for the treatment of RCC with the EMA in February 2016.

In August 2015, we entered into a license agreement under which we granted Pharmstandard the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize tivozanib in the territories of Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States, or CIS, for all conditions excluding non-oncologic ocular conditions. Under this agreement, Pharmstandard is responsible for all activities and costs associated with the further development, regulatory filings, health services and commercialization of tivozanib in the specified territories. In December 2015, Pharmstandard submitted an application for marketing authorization for tivozanib based on TIVO-1 results in Russia that was accepted by the Ministry of Health in February 2016.

We also have evaluated tivozanib in additional clinical programs including our BATON ( B iomarker A ssessment of T ivozanib in ON cology) program, assessing biomarkers in solid tumors that may be predictive of clinical response to tivozanib in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, and other clinical trials assessing locally recurrent or metastatic triple negative breast cancer.

The BATON-BC study in patients with breast cancer, led by AVEO, initiated patient enrollment in December 2012 in a randomized, double-blind, multi-center phase 2 clinical trial, evaluating the efficacy of tivozanib in combination with paclitaxel compared to placebo in combination with paclitaxel in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic triple negative breast cancer who have received no more than one systemic therapy for advanced or metastatic breast cancer. On January 30, 2014, we announced that we and Astellas jointly decided to discontinue the BATON-BC clinical trial, due to insufficient enrollment.

The BATON-CRC study, led by Astellas, which enrolled a total of 265 patients randomized 2 to 1, was an open-label, phase 2 study with a primary endpoint evaluating the superiority of tivozanib in combination with modified FOLFOX6, a standard chemotherapy, compared to bevacizumab in combination with modified FOLFOX6 as first-line treatment in patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer. On December 13, 2013, we announced that the study was unlikely to meet the primary endpoint in the intent-to-treat population and on February 14, 2014, we announced that we and Astellas agreed to discontinue this study. The data from the preplanned interim analysis of this study was presented at the European Society for Medical Oncology, or ESMO, on September 29, 2014. The final data through February 28, 2014, including predefined biomarker data from the study, were presented at the American Association for Cancer Research, or AACR Tumor Angiogenesis and Vascular Normalization Conference in March 2015.

An objective of the BATON-CRC study was the assessment of prospectively defined biomarkers that may be predictive of response in selected patient subpopulations. Among these, patients with low (below the median, representing 50% of the patient population) neuropilin-1, or NRP-1, showed an improved PFS versus patients with high NRP-1 in both treatment arms, supporting the value of NRP-1 as a potential prognostic marker for angiogenesis inhibitors. Further, patients with low serum NRP-1 demonstrated longer PFS when treated with tivozanib (17.9 months, n=52), compared to bevacizumab (11.2 months, n=28) (HR=0.380, p=0.0075). Patients with high NRP-1 had inferior PFS outcomes regardless of treatment assignment, with progression free survival of 7.3 months and 7.5 months for the tivozanib and bevacizumab arms, respectively. As soluble NRP-1 is known to bind to VEGF and is believed to inhibit VEGF binding to VEGF Receptor 2, we hypothesize that VEGF inhibitors may only be effective in patients with low serum NRP-1 levels, and that in patients with low serum NRP-1, a more complete blockade of VEGF pathway inhibition may be beneficial. Of note, exploratory biomarker analyses from two prior studies with tivozanib in RCC presented at the 17th Annual Symposium on Anti-Angiogenesis and Immune Therapies in February 2015 indicated that NRP-1 is a possible biomarker of tivozanib efficacy in patients with RCC. We hope to identify a commercially viable assay, which may enable a prospectively defined, randomized Phase 2 or Phase 3 study.

We are planning to conduct a phase 3 trial of tivozanib in the third-line treatment of patients with refractory RCC. The study will use PFS as the primary endpoint and OS as a secondary endpoint to support a request for regulatory approval of tivozanib as a third-line treatment and to address the overall survival concerns from TIVO-1 as a first line treatment presented in the June 2013 complete response letter from the FDA. Our study design, which we have shared with the FDA, contemplates a randomized, controlled, multi-center, open-

label p hase 3 study of approximately 322 subjects randomized 1:1 to receive either tivozanib or sorafenib. Subjects enrolled in the study may include those who have received prior immunotherapy, including immune checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitors, reflecting a potentially evolving treatment landscape. The primary objective of the study would be to show improved PFS. Secondary endpoints would include OS and objective response rate, or ORR , as well as safety and pharmacokinetic endpoints. We are evaluating all options for funding, including partnerships, for the clinical and regulatory advancement of tivozanib in RCC as well as colorectal cancer, or CRC. 

In November 2014, we entered into a Research and Exclusive Option Agreement with Ophthotech Corporation, pursuant to which we provided Ophthotech an exclusive option to enter into a definitive license agreement under which we would grant Ophthotech the right to develop and commercialize tivozanib outside of Asia for the potential diagnosis, prevention and treatment of non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye in humans. Pursuant to this option agreement, we granted to Ophthotech an exclusive, royalty free license or sublicense, as applicable, under our intellectual property rights solely to perform the research and development activities related to the use of tivozanib as set forth in the development plan during the option period described below. These activities include formulation work for ocular administration, preclinical research and the conduct of a phase 1/2a, proof of concept clinical trial of a product containing tivozanib in patients with wet age-related macular degeneration. Ophthotech may exercise its option at any time until the latest to occur of: (i) twelve (12) months after the achievement of a certain clinical efficacy milestones, (ii) ninety (90) days after the date Ophthotech is required to make certain clinical efficacy milestone payments, and (iii) thirty (30) days after AVEO and Ophthotech agree as to the definitive form of license agreement.

Ficlatuzumab: Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF) Inhibitory Antibody

Through the use of our Human Response Platform, our scientists identified the HGF/c-Met pathway as a significant driver of tumor growth. HGF is a protein that circulates in the blood and binds to and activates a receptor called c-Met. HGF is the sole known ligand of c-Met receptor, which is believed to trigger many activities that are involved in cancer development and metastasis. Altered HGF/c-Met signaling is observed in many tumors including lung, head and neck, gastric, bladder, breast, ovarian, prostate and colorectal cancers, certain sarcomas and in multiple myeloma and leukemias. There are no approved therapies that selectively target the HGF/c-Met pathway.

In September 2014, at the 2014 Congress of the European Society for Medical Oncology, or ESMO, we presented the results of our exploratory analysis using a serum-based molecular diagnostic test to identify a patient sub-population that experienced a progression free survival and overall survival benefit on the combination therapy in the ficlatuzumab phase 2 trial. The results suggest that VeriStrat, a serum protein test that is commercially available to help physicians guide treatment decisions for patients with NSCLC, may be selective of positive clinical response for ficlatuzumab plus gefitinib over gefitinib alone. For this retrospective exploratory analysis, 180 pre-treatment serum samples analyzed with VeriStrat and were assigned a label of either &#8220;VeriStrat Good&#8221; (VSG) or &#8220;VeriStrat Poor&#8221; (VSP) (VSG=145, VSP=35). While the study failed to demonstrate improved OS or PFS over gefitinib alone in the intent-to-treat population, the addition of ficlatuzumab to gefitinib provided significant clinical benefit to the VSP subgroup.

Based on this data, in April 2014, we entered into a worldwide agreement with Biodesix, Inc. to develop and commercialize HGF inhibitory antibody ficlatuzumab, with Biodesix&#8217;s proprietary companion diagnostic test, BDX004, a serum protein test derived from Veristrat. Pursuant to this agreement, we are conducting the FOCAL study, a phase 2, global, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical study, evaluating ficlatuzumab, our HGF inhibitory antibody, in combination with erlotinib (Tarceva &#174; ), an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR TKI) in first line EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients. BDX004 will be used to select patients for entry into the trial.

AV-203: Anti-ErbB3 Antibody

Through the use of our Human Response Platform, we identified the importance of the ErbB3 receptor in tumor growth. ErbB3 belongs to a family of proteins that also includes epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, and HER2, all of which have been implicated in promoting the growth of significant numbers of tumor types.

ErbB3 is believed to be an important receptor regulating cancer cell growth and survival, and high ErbB3 levels have been shown to correlate with poor prognoses in several tumor types. It has also been implicated in resistance to certain drugs which target EGFR in lung cancer and with resistance to radiotherapy. AV-203 inhibits the activity of the ErbB3 receptor and our preclinical studies suggest that neuregulin-1, or NRG1, levels predict AV-203 anti-tumor activity and we have filed a U.S. patent application relating to a method of predicting tumor response to ErbB3 inhibitors based on NRG1 levels.

In March 2014, we amended our option and license agreement with Biogen Idec GMbH Inc., or Biogen, regarding the development and commercialization of our ErbB3-targeted antibodies for the potential treatment and diagnosis of cancer and other diseases in humans. Pursuant to the amendment, Biogen agreed to terminate its rights and obligations under our agreement, including Biogen&#8217;s option to (i) obtain a co-exclusive (with AVEO) license to develop and manufacture ErbB3 targeted antibodies and 

(ii) obtain exclusive commercialization rights to ErbB3 products in countries in the world other than North America. Pursuant to the amendment, we are obligated to pay Biogen a specified percentage of milestone payments received by us from future partnerships after March 28, 2016 and single digit royalty payments on net sales related to the sale of ErbB3 products, up to cumulative maximum amount of $50 million. As a result, we retain worldwide rights to AV-203, a clinical stage ErbB3-targeted antibody and are obligated to in good faith use reasonable efforts to seek a collaboration partner for the purpose of funding further development and commercialization of ErbB3 targeted antibodies. We are currently exploring partnership opportunities to advance the clinical development of AV-203. 

AV-380 Program in Cachexia

In 2012, we initiated a program focusing on cachexia, which we refer to as our AV-380 program. AV-380 is a potent humanized IgG1 inhibitory monoclonal antibody targeting growth differentiating factor-15, or GDF15, a divergent member of the TGF-&#223; family, for the potential treatment or prevention of cachexia. Cachexia is a serious and common complication of advanced cancer and a number of chronic diseases. It is defined as a multi-factorial syndrome of involuntary weight loss characterized by an ongoing loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be fully reversed by conventional nutritional support and leads to progressive functional impairment. The pathophysiology is characterized by a negative protein and energy balance driven by a variable combination of reduced food intake and abnormal metabolism. Other symptoms or conditions associated with cachexia include anemia, breathing difficulties, edema, insulin resistance, muscle weakness/asthenia, and fatigue.

In September 2014, we presented the results from four preclinical studies of AV-380 in various in vivo cachexia models and in vitro assays at the 2nd Cancer Cachexia Conference held in Montreal Canada. Our research was also selected for presentation in an oral session at the conference. We believe our research set forth our proof of concept for GDF15, by demonstrating that GDF15 is elevated in cachectic animal models and patients versus non-cachectic, administration of GDF15 induces cachexia and inhibition of GDF15 reverses cachexia.

In connection with the AV-380 program, we have in-licensed certain patents and patent applications from St. Vincent&#8217;s Hospital in Sydney, Australia. We have completed cell line development and manufacturing of the first cGMP batch of AV-380.

We believe that cachexia represents a significant area of patient need, particularly in cancer patients. Weight loss during cancer treatment is associated with more chemotherapy-related side effects, fewer completed cycles of chemotherapy, a reduction in response to therapy and decreased survival rates ( J Gastroenterol 2013; Eur J Cancer 1998; Br J Cancer 2004). In a cohort of over 3,000 patients in the U.S. studied by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, or ECOG, the prevalence of weight loss even before starting chemotherapy was observed to be substantial across several cancers: over 80% in pancreatic and gastric cancers and over 50% in prostate, colorectal and lung cancers ( Am Med Journal 1980). It is estimated that more than 30% of all cancer patients die due to cachexia and over half of cancer patients who die do so with cachexia present. ( J Cachexia Sarcopenia Muscle 2010). In the United States alone, the estimated prevalence of cancer cachexia is over 400,000 patients, and the prevalence of cachexia due to cancer, COPD, congestive heart failure, frailty and end stage renal disease combined is estimated to total more than 5 million patients ( Am J Clin Nutr 2006).

In August 2015, we entered into a license agreement under which we granted Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd. the exclusive right to develop and commercialize AV-380 and related AVEO antibodies. Under this agreement, Novartis is responsible for all activities and costs associated with the further development, regulatory filing and commercialization of AV-380 worldwide. In connection with the license, Novartis has also acquired our inventory of AV-380 clinical quality drug substance.

Competition

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. There are many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities and research organizations actively engaged in the research and development of products that may be similar to our products. A number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, as well as large biotechnology companies, including, but not limited to, Roche Laboratories, Inc., or Roche, Pfizer Inc., or Pfizer, Bayer HealthCare AG, or Bayer, Amgen, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, or Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GSK, GTx, Inc., Helsinn and XBiotech, Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Arqule, Inc., Exelixis, Inc., Easai Co., Ltd. and AstraZeneca are pursuing the development or are currently marketing pharmaceuticals that target VEGF, HGF, ErbB3, and cachexia, or other oncology pathways on which we are focusing. It is probable that the number of companies seeking to develop products and therapies for the treatment of unmet needs in the lives of people with cancer will increase.

Many of our competitors, either alone or with their strategic partners, have greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining approval for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors&#8217; drugs may be safer and more effective, or 

more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing any of our product candidates. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. 

Tivozanib Competition

There are currently ten FDA-approved drugs in oncology which target the VEGF receptors. Seven of the FDA-approved VEGF pathway inhibitors are oral small molecule receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or TKIs. Nexavar (sorafenib) and Stivarga (regorafenib) are marketed by Bayer and Onyx, a subsidiary of Amgen, Sutent (sunitinib) and Inlyta (axitinib) are marketed by Pfizer, and Votrient (pazopanib) is marketed by Novartis. Most of these approved VEGFR TKIs are not specific to the VEGF 1, 2 and 3 receptors. Nexavar is approved for advanced RCC and unresectable hepatocellular cancer. Stivarga is approved for refractory metastatic colorectal cancer, or mCRC, and refractory gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST. Sutent is approved for advanced RCC, GIST, and progressive, well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Inlyta is approved for advanced RCC after failure of one prior systemic therapy. Votrient is approved for advanced RCC and advanced soft tissue sarcoma after prior chemotherapy. Caprelsa (vandetanib), marketed by AstraZeneca, and Cometriq (cabozantinib), marketed by Exelixis, are approved for medullary thyroid carcinoma.

Avastin (bevacizumab), marketed by Roche/Genentech, is an infused monoclonal antibody approved in combination with other anti-cancer agents for the treatment of mCRC, non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer, and metastatic RCC. It is also approved as a monotherapy for the treatment of glioblastoma in patients with progressive disease following prior therapy. Zaltrap (zif-aflibercept), marketed by Sanofi and Regeneron, is a VEGF-trap molecule that binds to multiple circulating VEGF factors, and is approved in combination with standard chemotherapy agents for treatment of second line metastatic CRC. Cyramza (ramucirumab), marketed by Lilly, is an antibody that binds to the VEGFR-2 receptor that is approved for the treatment of advanced gastric or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma and in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of NSCLC.

Many of the approved VEGF pathway inhibitor agents are in ongoing development in additional cancer indications including RCC. Additionally, we are aware of a number of companies that have ongoing programs to develop both small molecules and biologics that target the VEGF pathway.

In addition, the emergence of PD1/PDL1 inhibitor therapies present additional competition for tivozanib in advanced RCC. For example, Opdivo (nivolumab), marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, is an approved anti-PD1 for second line RCC. Additional clinical trials as mono and combination therapies of PD1/PDL1 with VEGF TKIs are in the pipeline targeting RCC. 

Ficlatuzumab Competition

We believe the products that are considered competitive with ficlatuzumab include those agents targeting the HGF/c-Met pathway. The agents exclusively targeting this pathway consist of the only other HGF-targeted antibody, Amgen&#8217;s AMG-102 (rilotumumab), initiated in a phase 3 clinical trial (which has been discontinued), as well as Lilly&#8217;s c-Met receptor antibody LY-2875358, currently in multiple phase 2 trials. In addition, Roche has conducted multiple phase 3 trials for a c-Met receptor antibody onartuzumab (MetMAb/ 5D5 Fab). Roche announced that an independent data monitoring committee recommended that its phase 3 trial of onartuzumab in second and third line NSCLC be stopped due to lack of efficacy.

Other marketed or late clinical-stage drugs which target the HGF/c-Met pathway, though not exclusively, include Pfizer&#8217;s PF-2341066 (Xalkori, crizotinib), Exelixis Inc.&#8217;s XL-184 (Cometriq, cabozantinib), ArQule, Inc.&#8217;s/ Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.&#8217;s ARQ-197 (tivantanib), Mirati Therapeutics&#8217; (formerly MethylGene) MGCD-265, Eisai Co. Ltd.&#8217;s E-7050 (golvatinib), Exelixis Inc.&#8217;s and GSK&#8217;s XL-880 (foretinib), Incyte Corp.&#8217;s and Novartis&#8217;s INCB-028060 and Sanofi-Aventis&#8217;s SAR-125844, EMD Serono&#8217;s MSC2156119J, Amgen Astellas BioPharma&#8217;s AMG 337, Lilly&#8217;s merestinib (LY2801653), Les Laboratoires Servier SAS&#8217;s S-49076, AstraZeneca and Hutchison MediPharma&#8217;s savolitinib, Merck KGaA&#8217;s tepotinib, AbbVie&#8217;s ABT-700, Deciphera Pharma&#8217;s altiratinib, Amgen&#8217;s AMG-208, Betta Pharmaceutical&#8217;s BPI-9016 and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company&#8217;s and Aslan Pharmaceuticals&#8217; BMS-777607.

AV-203 Program Competition

We believe the most direct competitors to our AV-203 program are monoclonal antibodies that specifically target the ErbB3 receptor, including Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc.&#8217;s MM-121, which is currently in phase 2 clinical development, and Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.&#8217;s and Amgen, Inc.&#8217;s patritumab (AMG-888), which recently entered phase 3 clinical development for non-small cell lung cancer. Other clinical-stage ErbB3-specific competitors include Roche&#8217;s RG-7116, Novartis&#8217;s elgemtumab, Regeneron&#8217;s REGN1400, GSK&#8217;s GSK-2849330, Kolltan&#8217;s KTN-3379, Merus&#8217;s MCLA-128, AstraZeneca&#8217;s sapitinib, Koltan Pharma&#8217;s KTN-3379 and Sihuan Pharma&#8217;s pirotinib and sirotinib, . Clinical stage competitor&#8217;s targeting ErbB3 in addition to other targets include Roche&#8217;s MEHD7945A, and Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc.&#8217;s MM-111 and MM-141.

AV-380 Program in Cachexia Competition 

Only a limited number of agents have been approved for the treatment or prevention of cachexia caused by any disease. In the United States, Megace is the only approved agent for the treatment of cachexia (in patients with the diagnosis of AIDS). Megace and medroxyprogesterone are approved for cancer cachexia in Europe. Three agents have recently completed or are currently being studied in phase 3 trials. One agent, GTx, Inc.&#8217;s selective androgen receptor modulator, or SARM, called enobosarm (GT-024) recently completed two phase 3 trials for the prevention and treatment of muscle wasting in newly diagnosed locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer patients. The trials suggested limited benefits in a larger patient population and the company has discontinued its commercialization efforts. Another agent that has recently completed phase 3 trials is Helsinn&#8217;s anamorelin, for which Helsinn recently filed for EMA approval for treating locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients who have cachexia,. A third agent, XBiotech&#8217;s xilonix (MABp1), is in a phase 3 trial for metastatic colorectal cancer patients who are cachectic and refractory to standard therapies and has shown encouraging overall survival results.

A number of agents with different mechanisms of action have completed or are currently being studied in phase 2 trials in cachexia or muscle wasting. Agents targeting the muscle regulatory molecule myostatin include Lilly&#8217;s LY2495655, Regeneron&#8217;s REGN-1033, and Atara Biosciences&#8217; PINTA 745, which was recently announced to have failed to demonstrate clinical proof of concept in its phase 2 study. Novartis is currently studying bimagrumab (BYM-338), an agent targeting the activin receptor. Drugs with other mechanisms currently in or recently completing phase 2 clinical trials include Alder Biosciences&#8217; clazakizumab (ALD-518, targeting IL-6), PsiOxus&#8217; MT-102 (dual acting catabolic/anabolic transforming agent), Acacia&#8217;s APD-209 (progestin/&#223; 2 antagonist) and Ohr Pharmaceuticals&#8217; OHR118 (cytoprotectant/immunomodulator). PsiOxus&#8217;s espindolol has completed Phase-1 trials

Strategic Partnerships

We are party to the following collaboration and license agreements:

EUSA

In December 2015, we entered into a license agreement with EUSA under which we granted to EUSA the exclusive, sublicensable right to develop, manufacture and commercialize tivozanib in the territories of Europe (excluding Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States), Latin America (excluding Mexico), Africa, Australasia and New Zealand for all diseases and conditions in humans, excluding non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye.

Under the license agreement, EUSA made a research and development funding payment to us of $2.5 million and is required to make a payment of $4.0 million upon the grant by the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, of marketing approval for tivozanib for treatment of renal cell carcinoma. We are eligible to receive additional research funding from EUSA, including up to $20.0 million if EUSA elects to utilize data generated by our planned phase 3 study in third line renal cell carcinoma, and up to $2.0 million for a potential phase 1 combination study with a checkpoint inhibitor. We will be entitled to receive milestone payments of $2.0 million per country upon reimbursement approval for renal cell carcinoma in each of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, and an additional $2.0 million for the grant of marketing approval in three of the following five countries: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Africa and Venezuela. We will also be eligible to receive a payment of $2.0 million in connection with EUSA&#8217;s filing with the EMA for marketing approval for tivozanib for the treatment of each of up to three additional indications and $5.0 million per indication in connection with the EMA&#8217;s grant of marketing approval for each of up to three additional indications, as well as potentially up to $335.0 million upon EUSA&#8217;s achievement of certain sales thresholds. We will also be eligible to receive tiered double digit royalties on net sales, if any, of licensed products in the licensed territories ranging from a low double digit up to mid-twenty percent depending on the level of annual net sales. A percentage of any milestone and royalty payments we receive are due to Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. (formerly Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd.), or KHK, as a sublicensing fee under the license agreement between us and KHK dated as of December 21, 2006.

EUSA is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize tivozanib throughout the licensed territories. With the exception of certain support to be provided by us prior to the grant of marketing approval by the EMA, EUSA has responsibility for all activities and costs associated with the further development, manufacture, regulatory filings and commercialization of tivozanib in the licensed territories. EUSA is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to file an application with the EMA for approval of marketing authorization for tivozanib for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which EUSA filed in February 2016.

The term of the license agreement commenced on the effective date and will continue on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the later to occur of (a) the expiration of the last valid patent claim for such product in such country, (b) the expiration of market or regulatory data exclusivity for such product in such country or (c) the 10 th anniversary of the effective date. Either party may terminate the license agreement in the event of the bankruptcy of the other party or a material breach by the other party that remains uncured, following receipt of written notice of such breach, for a period of (a) thirty (30) days in the case of breach 

for nonpayment of any amount due under the license agreement, and (b) ninety (90) days in the case of any other material breach. EUSA may terminate the license agreement at any time upon one hundred eighty (180) days&#8217; prior written notice. In addition, we may terminate the license agreement upon thirty (30) days&#8217; prior written notice if EUSA challenges any of the patent rights licensed under the license agreement. 

Novartis

In August 2015, we entered into a license agreement with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., which we refer to as Novartis, under which we granted Novartis the exclusive right to develop and commercialize AV-380 and our related antibodies that bind to GDF-15 worldwide. Under this agreement, Novartis is responsible for all activities and costs associated with the further development, regulatory filing and commercialization of AV-380 worldwide.

Novartis made an upfront payment to us of $15.0 million during September 2015. We will also be eligible to receive (a) up to $53 million in potential clinical milestone payments and up to $105 million in potential regulatory milestone payments tied to the commencement of clinical trials and to regulatory approvals of products developed under the license agreement in the United States, the European Union and Japan; and (b) up to $150 million in potential sales based milestone payments based on annual net sales of such products. Upon commercialization, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties on net sales of approved products ranging from the high single digits to the low double digits. Novartis has responsibility under the license agreement for the development, manufacture and commercialization of the licensed antibodies and any resulting approved therapeutic products. 

The term of the license agreement commenced in August 2015 and will continue on a country-by-country basis until the later to occur of the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale of a product in such country or the expiration of the last valid patent claim for a product in that country. We or Novartis may terminate the license agreement in the event of a material breach by the other party that remains uncured for a period of sixty (60) days, which period may be extended an additional thirty (30) days under certain circumstances. Novartis may terminate the license agreement, either in its entirety or with respect to any individual products or countries, at any time upon sixty (60) days&#8217; prior written notice. In addition, we may terminate the license agreement upon thirty (30) days&#8217; prior written notice if Novartis challenges certain patents controlled by us related to our antibodies.

Novartis also exercised its right under the license agreement to acquire our inventory of clinical quality drug substance, reimbursing us for approximately $3.5 million for such existing inventory.

Pharmstandard Group

In August 2015, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with JSC &#8220;Pharmstandard-Ufimskiy Vitamin Plant&#8221;, or Pharmstandard, a subsidiary of Pharmstandard OJSC, under which we granted Pharmstandard the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize tivozanib in the territories of Russia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States for all conditions excluding non-oncologic ocular conditions. 

Pharmstandard is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize tivozanib throughout the licensed territories, and Pharmstandard has responsibility for all activities and costs associated with the further development, manufacture, regulatory filings and commercialization of tivozanib in the licensed territories. In December 2015, Pharmstandard filed an application for marketing authorization in Russia for tivozanib for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma.

Pharmstandard made an upfront payment to us of $1.0 million and will be obligated to pay an additional $0.5 million upon registration of the license agreement with a Russian regulatory agency. Pharmstandard submitted an application for marketing authorization in Russia during December 2015. We are also eligible to receive $7.5 million in connection with the first marketing authorization of tivozanib in Russia. If Russian regulatory authorities require additional studies to be conducted prior to approval, this amount would be reduced to $3.0 million. In addition, we are eligible to receive $3.0 million for each additional approved indication of tivozanib, if Pharmstandard elects to seek any such approvals, as well as a high single-digit royalty on net sales in the sublicensed territories. A percentage of all upfront, milestone and royalty payments we receive under the agreement are due to KHK as a sublicensing fee under our license agreement with KHK.

The term of the license agreement commenced in August 2015 and will continue on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the later to occur of (a) the expiration of the last valid patent claim for such product in such country, (b) the expiration of the last marketing authorization for such product in such country or (c) the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale of such product in such country . Either party may terminate the license agreement in the event of a material breach by the other party that remains uncured, following receipt of written notice of such breach, for a period of (a) thirty (30) days , in the case of breach for nonpayment of any amount due under the license agreement, and (b) ninety (90) days , in the case of any other material breach. After the first anniversary, Pharmstandard may terminate the license agreement at any time upon ninety (90) days&#8217; prior written notice. In 

addition, we may terminate the license agreement upon thirty (30) days&#8217; prior written notice if Pharmstandard challenges certain patents controlled by us or our licensor, KHK, related to tivozanib. 

Ophthotech Corporation

In November 2014 we entered into a Research and Exclusive Option Agreement, or Option Agreement, with Ophthotech Corporation pursuant to which we provided Ophthotech an exclusive option to enter into a definitive license agreement whereby we would grant Ophthotech the right to develop and commercialize our VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, tivozanib, outside of Asia for the potential diagnosis, prevention and treatment of non-oncologic diseases or conditions of the eye in humans.

Pursuant to this Option Agreement, we granted to Ophthotech an exclusive, royalty free license or sublicense, as applicable, under intellectual property rights controlled by us solely to perform the research and development activities related to the use of tivozanib for the specific purposes outlined in the agreement during the option period (as defined below). These activities include formulation work for ocular administration, preclinical research and the conduct of a phase 1/2a, proof of concept clinical trial of a product containing tivozanib in patients with wet age-related macular degeneration, or the POC Study.

Ophthotech paid us $500,000 in consideration for the grant of the option. Such amount is non-refundable and not creditable against any other amounts due under the agreement. We are obligated to make available to Ophthotech, at no cost to Ophthotech, certain quantities of tivozanib hydrochloride solely for conducting its option period research including manufacturing additional quantities of tivozanib in the event stability data indicates that the current supply will expire prior to the end of February 2017.

During the option period, if Ophthotech elects to continue the development of tivozanib for non-oncologic diseases of the eye, we are entitled to receive a one-time milestone payment of $2.0 million upon acceptance of the first Investigational New Drug application for the purpose of conducting a human clinical study of tivozanib in ocular diseases, which we refer to as the IND Submission Milestone Payment. We are also entitled to receive a one-time milestone payment of $6.0 million, which we refer to as the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment, on the earlier of (a) December 31, 2016 and (b) the later to occur of: (i) the achievement of a clinical milestone in the POC Study, or the Clinical Efficacy Milestone and (ii) the earlier of (A) the date twelve (12) months after our and Ophthotech&#8217;s agreement as to the form and substance of the KHK Amendment (as defined below) or (B) the date ninety (90) days after the entry into the KHK Amendment, subject to our right to terminate the Option Agreement on 90 days&#8217; written notice (the date on which such payment is due, referred to as the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment Trigger Date).

Ophthotech may exercise the option at any time until the latest to occur of: (i) twelve (12) months after the achievement of the Clinical Efficacy Milestone, (ii) ninety (90) days after the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment Trigger Date, and (iii) thirty (30) days after we and Ophthotech agree as to the definitive form of license agreement, which we refer to as the Option Period.

During the Option Period, we will not grant a license to any third party that would preclude us from being able to grant to Ophthotech the rights and licenses that are contemplated by the definitive license agreement, and we will not engage in any research, development or commercialization of tivozanib in the field covered by the contemplated definitive license agreement, except as specified in the Option Agreement.

The terms of the Option Agreement are subject to our obligations to Kirin Brewery Co. Ltd. (now Kyowa Hakko Kirin), or KHK, under a license agreement entered into by us with KHK in 2006, pursuant to which we acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize tivozanib for all human diseases outside of Asia, referred to as the KHK License Agreement. A percentage of all payments received by us under the Option Agreement and any definitive license agreement must be paid to KHK. We are required to maintain the KHK Agreement in effect, and not enter into any amendment or termination thereof that would adversely affect our rights, during the option period.

During the option period, we and Ophthotech are obligated to negotiate in good faith the form and substance of a definitive license agreement, as well as the form and substance of an amendment to our license agreement with KHK (such amendment referred to as the KHK Amendment) to modify certain rights and obligations of the parties and sublicensees thereunder, particularly with respect to rights to improvements that are not specifically related to tivozanib, and regulatory affairs matters.

Upon exercise of the option, Ophthotech is required to pay us a one-time option exercise fee of $2.0 million in addition to the IND Submission Milestone Payment if such payment has not then been previously paid. If upon exercise of the option, the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment Trigger Date has not yet occurred, we shall be entitled to the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment at such time that the Clinical Efficacy Milestone Payment Date does occur if the license agreement remains in effect as of such date. The license agreement, if entered into upon Ophthotech&#8217;s exercise of the Option, will provide for us to be entitled to receive (i) $10.0 million upon meeting certain efficacy and safety endpoints in phase 2 clinical trials that would enable the commencement of a phase 3 clinical trial, (ii) $20.0 million upon marketing approval in the United States, (iii) $20.0 million upon marketing approval in the UK, 

Germany, Spain, Italy and France and (iv) up to $45.0 million in sales-based milestone payments. Ophthotech would also be required to pay tiered, double digit royalties, up to a mid-teen percentage, on net sales of tivozanib or products containing tivozanib. 

Either party may terminate the Option Agreement in the event of an uncured material breach of the Option Agreement by the other party which remains uncured for a period of ninety (90) days (or thirty (30) days for a breach relating to non-payment), or upon bankruptcy or like proceedings relating to the other party. Ophthotech may terminate the Option Agreement at any time upon ninety (90) days&#8217; prior written notice to us. In addition, we may terminate the Option Agreement upon thirty (30) days&#8217; prior written notice to Ophthotech if Ophthotech challenges certain patents controlled by us related to tivozanib. Unless terminated as provided above, the Option Agreement will expire upon the expiration of the option or the entry into the definitive license agreement.

Biodesix

In April 2014, we entered into a worldwide agreement with Biodesix to develop and commercialize our HGF inhibitory antibody ficlatuzumab, with BDX004, a proprietary companion diagnostic test developed by Biodesix and based upon the exploratory analyses with VeriStrat &#174; , a serum protein test that is commercially available to help physicians guide treatment decisions for patients with advanced NSCLC.

Under the agreement, we granted Biodesix perpetual, non-exclusive rights to certain intellectual property, including all clinical and biomarker data related to ficlatuzumab, to develop and commercialize BDX004. Biodesix granted us perpetual, non-exclusive rights to certain intellectual property, including diagnostic data related to BDX004, with respect to the development and commercialization of ficlatuzumab; each license includes the right to sublicense, subject to certain exceptions. Pursuant to a joint development plan, as monitored by a joint steering committee, we retain primary responsibility for clinical development of ficlatuzumab in a phase 2 proof of concept, or POC, clinical study of ficlatuzumab for non-small cell lung cancer, in which BDX004, a diagnostic test derived from VeriStrat will be used to select clinical trial subjects, referred to as the FOCAL study. The FOCAL study will be fully funded by Biodesix up to a maximum of $15 million, referred to as the Cap. Biodesix will also be responsible for all of the costs associated with development and registration of BDX004. After the Cap is reached, we and Biodesix will share equally in the costs of the FOCAL study, and we and Biodesix will each be responsible for 50% of development and regulatory costs associated with all future ficlatuzuamab clinical development trials agreed-upon by Biodesix and us, including all milestone payments and royalties payable to third parties, if any.

Pending marketing approval of ficlatuzumab and subject to a commercialization agreement to be entered into after receipt of results from the FOCAL study, each party would share equally in commercialization profits and losses, subject to our right to be the lead commercialization party.

Biodesix is solely responsible for the BDX004 development costs, as well as BDX004 sales and marketing costs. Subject to and following the approval of the BDX004 test as a companion diagnostic for ficlatuzumab, Biodesix has agreed to make the BDX004 test available and use commercially reasonable efforts to seek reimbursement in all geographies where ficlatuzumab is approved. We have agreed to reimburse Biodesix a pre-specified amount, under certain circumstances for VeriStrat tests performed.

Prior to the first commercial sale of ficlatuzumab and after the earlier of (i) the Cap being reached or (ii) the completion of the FOCAL study, each party has the right to elect to discontinue participating in further development or commercialization efforts with respect to ficlatuzumab, which is referred to as an Opt-Out. If either we or Biodesix elects to Opt-Out, with such party referred to as the Opting-Out Party, then the Opting-Out Party shall not be responsible for any future costs associated with developing and commercializing ficlatuzumab other than any ongoing clinical trials. After election of an Opt-Out, the non-opting out party shall have sole decision-making authority with respect to further development and commercialization of ficlatuzumab. Additionally, the Opting-Out Party shall be entitled to receive, if ficlatuzumab is successfully developed and commercialized, a royalty equal to 10% of net sales of ficlatuzumab throughout the world, if any, subject to offsets under certain circumstances.

If Biodesix elects to Opt-Out, it will continue to be responsible for its development and commercialization obligations with respect to BDX004. If we elect to Opt-Out, we will continue to make the existing supply of ficlatuzumab available to Biodesix for the purposes of enabling Biodesix to complete the development of ficlatuzumab, and Biodesix will have the right to commercialize ficlatuzumab.

Prior to any Opt-Out, the parties shall share equally in any payments received from a third party licensee; provided, however, after any Opt-Out, the Opting-Out Party shall be entitled to receive only a reduced portion of such third party payments. The agreement will remain in effect until the expiration of all payment obligations between the parties related to development and commercialization of ficlatuzumab, unless earlier terminated.

St. Vincent&#8217;s Hospital 

In July 2012, we entered into a license agreement with St. Vincent&#8217;s Hospital Sydney Limited, which we refer to as St. Vincent&#8217;s, which was amended and restated in August 2015, under which we obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture and commercialize products for therapeutic applications that benefit from inhibition or decreased expression or activity of MIC-1, which is also known as GDF15. We believe GDF15 is a novel target for cachexia and we are using this license in our AV-380 program for cachexia. Under the agreement, we have the right to grant sublicenses subject to certain restrictions. We have a right of first negotiation to obtain an exclusive license to certain improvements that St. Vincent&#8217;s or third parties may make to licensed therapeutic products. Under the license agreement, St. Vincent&#8217;s also granted us non-exclusive rights for certain related diagnostic products and research tools.

Under the license agreement, we (or a sublicensee) are obligated to use diligent efforts to conduct research and clinical development and commercially launch at least one licensed therapeutic product, and to maximize profits from licensed therapeutic products for the benefit of us and St. Vincent&#8217;s. Subject to certain conditions, we have also agreed to achieve specified research, development and regulatory milestones by specified dates. If we (or a sublicensee) do not achieve a given milestone by the agreed date, we have the option of paying the amount we would have been obligated to pay had we timely achieved the milestone, and, if we do so, St. Vincent&#8217;s will not have the right to terminate the license agreement based on our failure to timely achieve such milestone.

We have also agreed that, for as long as there is a valid claim in the licensed patents, we will not, and we will ensure that our affiliates and our sublicensees do not, develop or commercialize any product, other than a licensed therapeutic product, for the treatment, prevention or prophylaxis of cachexia, decreased appetite or body weight, that binds to GDF15 or the GDF15 receptor and that is a GDF15 antagonist, and will not license or induce any other person to do the same.

In connection with entering into the original license agreement with St. Vincent&#8217;s in July 2012, we paid St. Vincent&#8217;s an upfront license fee of $0.7 million and a low five-figure amount to reimburse St. Vincent&#8217;s for patent-related expenses it incurred with respect to a specified licensed patent. In connection with the amendment and restatement of the original license agreement in August 2015, we made an additional upfront payment of $1.5 million.

Under our license agreement with St. Vincent&#8217;s, we may be required to:

&#160;

&#183; 

make milestone payments, up to an aggregate total of $18.9 million, upon achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones for the first three indications for licensed therapeutic products, some of which payments may be increased by a mid to high double-digit percentage rate for milestones payments made after we grant any sublicense under the license agreement, depending on the sublicensed territory or territories; 

&#160;

&#183; 

pay tiered royalty payments equal to a low-single-digit percentage of any net sales we or our sublicensees make from licensed therapeutic products, an obligation we share with Novartis equally. The royalty rate escalates within the low-single-digit range during each calendar year based on increasing licensed therapeutic product sales during such calendar year. Our royalty payment obligations for a licensed therapeutic product in a particular country end on the later of 10 years after the date of first commercial sale of such licensed therapeutic product in such country or expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of the licensed patents covering such licensed therapeutic product in such country, and are subject to offsets under certain circumstances; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

reimburse St. Vincent&#8217;s for some or all of the reasonable costs and expenses it incurs in patent management, filing, prosecuting and maintaining the licensed patents. 

The license agreement will remain in effect until the later of 10 years after the date of first commercial sale of licensed therapeutic products in the last country in which a commercial sale is made, or expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of the licensed patents, unless we elect, or St. Vincent&#8217;s elects, to terminate the license agreement earlier.

St. Vincent&#8217;s has the right to terminate the agreement due to any patent-related challenge by us, our affiliates or any sublicensee, or if we or our affiliates or any sublicensee cause or induce any other person to make a patent-related challenge, and such challenge continues after a specified cure period.

We have the right to terminate the agreement on six months&#8217; notice if we terminate our GDF15 research and development programs as a result of the failure of a licensed therapeutic product in pre-clinical or clinical development, or if we form the reasonable view that further GDF15 research and development is not commercially viable, and we are not then in breach of any of our obligations under the agreement. If we form the reasonable view that further GDF15 research and development is not commercially viable and terminate the agreement before we start a phase 1 clinical trial on a licensed therapeutic product, we will be required to pay St. Vincent&#8217;s a low-to-mid six-figure termination payment.

Any termination of the agreement, in whole or in part, will result in a loss of our rights to the relevant licensed patents and know-how. If St. Vincent&#8217;s terminates the agreement in its entirety due to our breach, insolvency or a patent-related challenge, or we terminate the agreement due to a development failure or lack of commercial viability, as described above, St. Vincent&#8217;s will have a non-exclusive license from us to certain intellectual property rights and know-how relating to the licensed therapeutic products, and we must transfer to St. Vincent&#8217;s certain then-existing regulatory approvals and related documents for the licensed therapeutic products. 

Astellas Pharma

In February 2011, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Astellas and certain of its indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries pursuant to which we and Astellas made plans to develop and seek to commercialize tivozanib for the treatment of a broad range of cancers. On February 12, 2014, Astellas exercised its right to terminate the agreement. The termination of the agreement became effective August 11, 2014, at which time tivozanib rights returned to us. In accordance with the collaboration and license agreement, we and Astellas agreed to equally share committed development costs, including the costs of completing certain tivozanib clinical development activities that were initiated as part of our partnership with Astellas. For additional information regarding the terms of this agreement, see &#8220;Part II, Item 7, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#9472; Strategic Partnerships.&#8221;

Biogen Idec

In March 2009, we entered into an exclusive option and license agreement with Biogen Idec International GmbH, or Biogen Idec, regarding the development and commercialization of our discovery-stage ErbB3-targeted antibodies for the potential treatment and diagnosis of cancer and other diseases in humans outside of North America. Under the agreement, we were responsible for developing ErbB3 antibodies through completion of the first phase 2 clinical trial designed in a manner that, if successful, would generate data sufficient to support advancement to a phase 3 clinical trial. In March 2014, we amended our agreement with Biogen Idec, whereby Biogen Idec agreed to the termination of its rights and obligations under the agreement, including Biogen Idec&#8217;s option to (i) obtain a co-exclusive (with us) license to develop and manufacture ErbB3 targeted antibodies and (ii) obtain exclusive commercialization rights to ErbB3 products in countries in the world other than North America. As a result, we retain worldwide rights to AV-203, a clinical stage ErbB3-targeted antibody. Pursuant to the amendment, we are obligated to in good faith use reasonable efforts to seek a collaboration partner for the purpose of funding further development and commercialization of ErbB3-targeted antibodies. Pursuant to the amendment, we are obligated to pay Biogen Idec a percentage of milestone payments received by us from future partnerships after March 28, 2016 and single digit royalty payments on net sales related to the sale of ErbB3 products, up to cumulative maximum amount of $50.0 million.

Kyowa Hakko Kirin

In December 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Kirin Brewery Co. Ltd. (now Kyowa Hakko Kirin), which we sometimes refer to as KHK, under which we obtained an exclusive license, with the right to grant sublicenses subject to certain restrictions, to research, develop, manufacture and commercialize tivozanib, pharmaceutical compositions thereof and associated biomarkers. Our exclusive license covers all territories in the world, except for Asia. KHK has retained rights to tivozanib in Asia. Under the license agreement, we obtained exclusive rights in our territory under certain KHK patents, patent applications and know-how related to tivozanib, to research, develop, make, have made, use, import, offer for sale, and sell tivozanib for the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of any and all human diseases and conditions. We and KHK each have access to and can benefit from the other party&#8217;s clinical data and regulatory filings with respect to tivozanib and biomarkers identified in the conduct of activities under the license agreement.

Under the license agreement, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize tivozanib in our territory, including meeting certain specified diligence goals. Prior to the first anniversary of the first post-marketing approval sale of tivozanib in our territory, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries has the right to conduct certain clinical trials of, seek marketing approval for or commercialize any other cancer product that also works by inhibiting the activity of the VEGF receptor.

Upon entering into the license agreement with KHK, we made a one-time cash payment in the amount of $5.0 million. In March 2010, we made a $10.0 million milestone payment to KHK in connection with the dosing of the first patient in our phase 3 clinical trial of tivozanib. In December 2012, we made a $12.0 million milestone payment to KHK in connection with the acceptance by the FDA of our NDA filing for tivozanib. The total remaining payments for clinical and regulatory milestones under our license agreement with KHK are $38.0 million, in the aggregate, provided that the associated clinical and regulatory milestones specific to licensed territories will be replaced by a specified percentage of any non-research and development amounts we receive from any third parties in the event we sublicense our rights under the agreement..

We also made a $22.5 million payment to KHK during the year ended December 31, 2011 related to the up-front license payment received under the collaboration and license agreement with Astellas which we entered into in February 2011. We are also required to pay tiered royalty payments on net sales we make of tivozanib in our territory, which range from the low to mid- teens as a percentage of net sales. The royalty rate escalates within this range based on increasing tivozanib sales. Our royalty payment obligations in a particular country in our territory begin on the date of the first commercial sale of tivozanib in that country, and end on the later of 12 years after the date of first commercial sale of tivozanib in that country or the date of the last to expire of the patents covering tivozanib that have been issued in that country. In the event we sublicense the rights licensed to us under the license agreement with KHK, the associated clinical and regulatory milestones specific to licensed territories will be replaced by a specified percentage of any amounts we receive fr om any third party sublicensees. This provision does not apply to amounts we receive in respect of research and development funding or equity investments, subject to certain limitations. 

The license agreement will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty and sublicense revenue obligations to KHK, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the license agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, KHK can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our rights to tivozanib and an obligation to assign or license to KHK any intellectual property or other rights we may have in tivozanib, including our regulatory filings, regulatory approvals, patents and trademarks for tivozanib.

Intellectual Property Rights

Patent Rights

We have built a strong intellectual property portfolio, and, whenever possible, we have multiple tiers of patent protection for our product candidates. With respect to tivozanib, we have exclusively licensed patents that cover the molecule and its therapeutic use (patent expiration 2022, with the possibility of patent term extension to 2027 in the United States and Europe), a key step in manufacturing the molecule, and a crystal form of the molecule, i.e., a polymorph with low hygroscopicity used in the clinical formulation. 

Tivozanib 

With respect to tivozanib, we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 3 issued; none pending; expirations ranging from 2018 to 2023 

&#160;

&#183; 

European patents: 3 granted; none pending; expirations ranging from 2018 to 2023 

&#160;

&#183; 

Canadian patents: 1 granted; none pending; expiration 2022 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: 1 granted; none pending; expiration 2022 

Complementing these in-licensed patents relating to tivozanib are two of our own issued U.S. patents that cover different biomarker tests for identifying human patients likely to respond to treatment with tivozanib, and one pending international PCT patent application relating to the use of Neuropilin-1, as a serum-based biomarker for identifying patients, including patients with colorectal cancer, likely to respond to treatment with tivozanib. 

With respect to tivozanib related technologies, we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 2 issued; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2029 to 2036 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: none granted; 1 pending; expiration 2030 

&#160;

&#183; 

International applications: 1 pending 

Ficlatuzumab 

With respect to our anti-HGF antibodies, including ficlatuzumab, we have eight U.S. patents covering our anti-HGF antibodies, nucleic acids and expression vectors encoding the antibodies, host cells, methods of making the antibodies, and methods of treatment using the antibodies. With respect to our anti-HGF antibody program we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 8 granted; expirations ranging from 2027 to 2028 

&#160;

&#183; 

European patents: 1 granted; none pending; expirations 2027 

&#160;

&#183; 

Japanese patents: 3 granted; 0 pending; expirations 2027 

&#160;

&#183; 

Canadian patents: 0 granted; 1 pending; expirations 2027 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: 1 granted; none pending; expiration 2027 

AV-203 

With respect to our anti-ErbB3 antibodies, including AV-203, we have two U.S. patents covering our anti-ErbB3 antibodies, nucleic acids and expression vectors encoding the antibodies, host cells, and methods of making the antibodies, a U.S. patent application relating to related embodiments, and a U.S. patent application relating to a method of predicting tumor response to our anti-ErbB3 antibody. With respect to our anti- ErbB3 antibody program we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 2 granted; 2 pending; expirations ranging from 2031 to 2032 

&#160;

&#183; 

European patents: 1 granted; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2031 to 2032 

&#160;

&#183; 

Japanese patents: none granted; 2 pending; expirations ranging from 2031 to 2032 

&#160;

&#183; 

Canadian patents: none granted; 2 pending; expirations ranging from 2031 to 2032 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: none granted; 2 pending; expirations ranging from 2031 to 2032 

Anti-GDF15 Antibodies 

With respect to our anti-GDF15 antibodies, we have exclusively licensed certain patent rights from Saint Vincent&#8217;s Hospital in the field of GDF15 inhibition for therapeutic, preventative and palliative applications, including increasing appetite and/or body weight in subjects where decreased appetite and/or body weight loss due to elevated expression or amounts of GDF15. A U.S. Patent covering method of increasing appetite and /or body weight administering an effective amount of an anti-GDF15 antibody is expected to expire in 2029, which includes approximately 4 years of patent term adjustment granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We also have rights in a granted European patent in the field of GDF15 inhibition for decreased appetite and/or body weight due to elevated expression or amounts of GDF15 in patients with cancer, and are pursuing broader claims in a divisional patent application. The granted European patents will expire in 2025.

With respect to the licensed technologies, we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 2 issued; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2025 to 2029 

&#160;

&#183; 

European patents: 3 granted; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2016 to 2052 

&#160;

&#183; 

Japanese patents: 3 granted; 1 pending; expirations in 2025. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Canadian patents: 1 granted; 1 pending; expiration 2016 to 2025 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: 3 granted; none pending; expiration 2016 to 2028 

Complementing these in-licensed patents relating to GDF15 inhibition is our own issued U.S. patent covering our inhibitory GDF15 antibodies, which is expected to expire in 2033. Additionally, we have a filed U.S. application and international patent applications that cover our GDF15 antibodies, nucleic acids and expression vectors encoding the antibodies, host cells, and methods of making the antibodies. These patents, if issued, would also be expected to expire in 2033. We have also filed three international patent applications covering the use of our inhibitory GDF15 antibodies in improving cardiac and renal function in patients with congestive heart failure and chronic kidney disease, respectively, as well as use in conjunction with chemotherapeutic agents to increase survival in a cancer cachexia patient. These patents, if issued would be expected to expire in 2035 and early 2036.

Other 

In addition to patents relating to tivozanib and our ficlatuzumab, AV-203, and anti-GDF15 antibody programs, our patent portfolio contains a number of other patents and patent applications relevant to our business. We own a granted U.S. patent and issued foreign counterparts covering a method of making a chimeric mouse cancer model. We also own a granted U.S. patent and an issued foreign counterparts covering a method of producing primary tumor material via directed complementation. We also own a granted U.S. patent and pending U.S. patent application covering a mouse model that contains a human breast tumor. We own pending patent applications that cover a general method for identifying new, multi-gene biomarkers for predicting response to an anti-cancer drug of interest, as well as specific multi-gene biomarkers identified by using the same method. 

Technology Platform 

With respect to our technology platforms, we have:

&#160;

&#183; 

U.S. patents: 3 issued; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2024 to 2026 

&#160;

&#183; 

European patents: 1 granted; expiration in 2024 

&#160;

&#183; 

Japanese patents: 1 granted; expiration in 2024 

&#160;

&#183; 

Australian patents: 1 granted; 1 pending; expirations ranging from 2024 to 2032 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, a patent&#8217;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in granting a patent. A U.S. patent term may be shortened, if a patent is terminally disclaimed by its owner, over another patent.

The patent term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval, and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products.

Many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academic institutions are competing with us in the field of oncology and filing patent applications potentially relevant to our business. With regard to tivozanib, we are aware of a third party United States patent, and corresponding foreign counterparts, that contain broad claims related to the use of an organic compound that, among other things, inhibits tyrosine phosphorylation of a VEGF receptor caused by VEGF binding to such VEGF receptor. We are also aware of third party United States patents that contain broad claims related to the use of a tyrosine kinase inhibitor in combination with a DNA damaging agent such as chemotherapy or radiation and we have received written notice from the owners of such patents indicating that they believe we may need a license from them in order to avoid infringing their patents. With regard to ficlatuzumab, we are aware of two separate families of United States patents, United States patent applications and foreign counterparts, with each of the two families being owned by a different third party, that contain broad claims related to anti-HGF antibodies having certain binding properties and their use. With regard to AV-203, we are aware of a third party United States patent that contains broad claims relating to anti-ErbB3 antibodies. In the event that an owner of one or more of these patents were to bring an infringement action against us, we may have to argue that our product, its manufacture or use does not infringe a valid claim of the patent in question. Furthermore, if we were to challenge the validity of any issued United States patent in court, we would need to overcome a statutory presumption of validity that attaches to every United States patent. This means that in order to prevail, we would have to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of the patent&#8217;s claims. There is no assurance that a court would find in our favor on questions of infringement or validity.

Over the years, we have attempted to identify potential third party intellectual property issues during the early stages of research of our research programs, in order to minimize the cost and disruption of resolving such issues. From time to time, we have found it necessary or prudent to obtain licenses from third party intellectual property holders. Where licenses are readily available at reasonable cost, such licenses are considered a normal cost of doing business. In other instances, however, we may have used the results of freedom-to-operate studies to guide our research away from areas where we believed we were likely to encounter obstacles in the form of third party intellectual property. For example, where a third party holds relevant intellectual property and is a direct competitor, a license might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or available at all.

In spite of our efforts to avoid obstacles and disruptions arising from third party intellectual property, it is impossible to establish with certainty that our technology platform or our product programs will be free of claims by third party intellectual property holders. Even with modern databases and on-line search engines, literature searches are imperfect and may fail to identify relevant patents and published applications. Even when a third party patent is identified, we may conclude upon a thorough analysis, that we do not infringe the patent or that the patent is invalid. If the third party patent owner disagrees with our conclusion and we continue with the business activity in question, patent litigation may be initiated against us. Alternatively, we might decide to initiate litigation in an attempt to have a court declare the third party patent invalid or non-infringed by our activity. In either scenario, patent litigation typically is costly and time-consuming, and the outcome is uncertain. The outcome of patent litigation is subject to uncertainties that cannot be quantified in advance, for example, the credibility of expert witnesses who may disagree on technical interpretation of scientific data. Ultimately, in the case of an adverse outcome in litigation, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or 

using certain aspects of our technology platform as a result of patent infringement claims asserted against us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

To protect our competitive position, it may be necessary to enforce our patent rights through litigation against infringing third parties. Litigation to enforce our own patent rights is subject to the same uncertainties discussed above. In addition, however, litigation involving our patents carries the risk that one or more of our patents will be held invalid (in whole or in part, on a claim-by-claim basis) or held unenforceable. Such an adverse court ruling could allow third parties to commercialize our products or our platform technology, and then compete directly with us, without making any payments to us.

Trade Secrets

For some aspects of our proprietary technology, trade secret protection is more appropriate than patent protection. For example, our proprietary bioinformatics software tools and databases are protected as trade secrets. Our bioinformatics tools and databases give us the means to store, analyze, interpret and integrate the large volume of data generated from our various tumor models and from analysis of human clinical samples from clinical trials. We continually make incremental improvements in our proprietary software tools, as we tailor them to the changing needs of our development programs. In general, trade secret protection can accommodate this continuing evolution of our bioinformatics system better than other forms of intellectual property protection.

Trademarks

We seek trademark protection in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions where available and when appropriate. We have filed to register several trademarks intended for potential use in the marketing of tivozanib. We own a U.S. trademark that we use in connection with our research and development (Human Response Platform). We also own a U.S. trademark (The Human Response&#8482;) and a U.S. trademark application (AVEO Oncology The Human Response&#8482;) that we use in connection with our business, in general.

Manufacturing

We currently contract with third parties, to the extent we require, for the manufacture of our product candidates and intend to do so in the future for both clinical and potential commercial needs. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of our product candidates. We currently have no plans to build our own clinical or commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. Although we rely on contract manufacturers, we have personnel with extensive manufacturing experience to oversee the relationships with our contract manufacturers.

One of our contract manufacturers has manufactured what we believe to be sufficient quantities of tivozanib&#8217;s drug substance to support our ongoing and planned clinical trials. In addition, we currently engage a separate contract manufacturer to manufacture, package, label and distribute clinical supplies of tivozanib on an as&#8211;needed basis.

We are responsible for all process development and all manufacturing of ficlatuzumab for future development and commercialization and have an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim for large-scale process development and clinical manufacturing of ficlatuzumab. In connection with the agreement, Boehringer Ingelheim has produced ficlatuzumab at its biopharmaceutical sites in Fremont, California (drug substance) and Biberach, Germany (drug product).

To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements. We believe that there are alternate sources of supply that can satisfy our current clinical requirements, although we cannot be certain that identifying and establishing relationships with such sources, if necessary, would not result in significant delay or material additional costs.

Government Regulation and Product Approval

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union , extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing , post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

Review and Approval of Drugs and Biologics in the United States

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and related regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Biological products are subject to 

regulation by the FDA under the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, FDCA and related regulations, and other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug or biological product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#160;

&#183; 

c ompletion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; 

&#160;

&#183; 

submission to the FDA of an IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#160;

&#183; 

a pproval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; 

&#160;

&#183; 

p erformance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; 

&#160;

&#183; 

preparation and submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, for a drug candidate product and a biological licensing application, or BLA, for a biological product requesting marketing for one or more proposed indications; 

&#160;

&#183; 

review by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; 

&#160;

&#183; 

s atisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product , or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP , requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity; 

&#160;

&#183; 

satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of the clinical data; 

&#160;

&#183; 

payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA or BLA; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

compliance with any post-approval requirements, including the potential requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, and the potential requirement to conduct post-approval studies. 

Preclinical Studies 

Before an applicant begins testing a compound with potential therapeutic value in humans, the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the purity and stability of the manufactured substance or active pharmaceutical ingredient and the formulated product, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the safety and activity of the product candidate for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical studies, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. Some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, and long term toxicity studies, may continue after the IND is submitted.

The IND and IRB Processes

An IND is an exemption from the FDCA that allows an unapproved product candidate to be shipped in interstate commerce for use in an investigational clinical trial and a request for FDA authorization to administer an investigational drug to humans. Such authorization must be secured prior to interstate shipment and administration of any new drug or biologic that is not the subject of an approved NDA or BLA. In support of a request for an IND, applicants must submit a protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. The FDA requires a 30-day waiting period after the filing of each IND before clinical trials may begin. This waiting period is designed to allow the FDA to review the IND to determine whether human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. At any time during this 30-day period, or thereafter, the FDA may raise concerns or questions about the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND and impose a clinical hold or partial clinical hold. In this case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. 

In addition to the foregoing IND requirements, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on its ClinicalTrials.gov website. An IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, 

if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#8217;s requirements or if the product candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

The FDA&#8217;s primary objectives in reviewing an IND are to assure the safety and rights of patients and to help assure that the quality of the investigation will be adequate to permit an evaluation of the drug&#8217;s effectiveness and safety and of the biological product&#8217;s safety, purity and potency. The decision to terminate development of an investigational drug or biological product may be made by either a health authority body such as the FDA, an IRB or ethics committee, or by us for various reasons. Additionally, some trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access that only the group maintains to available data from the study. Suspension or termination of development during any phase of clinical trials can occur if it is determined that the participants or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Other reasons for suspension or termination may be made by us based on evolving business objectives and/or competitive climate.

Human Clinical Studies in Support of an NDA or BLA

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial . Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. 

The clinical investigation of an investigational drug or biological product is generally divided into four phases. Although the phases are usually conducted sequentially, they may overlap or be combined. The four phases of an investigation are as follows:

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 1 . Phase 1 includes the initial introduction of an investigational new drug or biological product into humans. Phase 1 clinical trials are typically closely monitored and may be conducted in patients with the target disease or condition or healthy volunteers. These studies are designed to evaluate the safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the investigational drug or biological product in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. During phase 1 clinical trials, sufficient information about the investigational drug&#8217;s or biological product&#8217;s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects may be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled and scientifically valid phase 2 clinical trials. The total number of participants included in phase 1 clinical trials varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 2 . Phase 2 includes the controlled clinical trials conducted to preliminarily or further evaluate the effectiveness of the investigational drug or biological product for a particular indication(s) in patients with the disease or condition under study, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks associated with the drug or biological product. Phase 2 clinical trials are typically well-controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a limited patient population, usually involving no more than several hundred participants. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 3 . Phase 3 clinical trials are generally controlled clinical trials conducted in an expanded patient population generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the drug or biological product has been obtained, and are intended to further evaluate dosage, clinical effectiveness and safety, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the investigational drug or biological product, and to provide an adequate basis for product approval. Phase 3 clinical trials usually involve several hundred to several thousand participants. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 4. Post-approval studies may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The FDA or the sponsor or the data monitoring committee may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted.

Review of an NDA or BLA by the FDA 

In order to obtain approval to market a drug or biological product in the United States, a marketing application must be submitted to the FDA that provides data establishing the safety and effectiveness of the proposed drug product for the proposed indication, and the safety, purity and potency of the biological product for its intended indication. The application includes all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product&#8217;s chemistry, manufacturing, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. Data can come from company-sponsored clinical trials intended to test the safety and effectiveness of a use of a product, or from a number of alternative sources, including studies initiated by investigators. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and effectiveness of the investigational drug product and the safety, purity and potency of the biological product to the satisfaction of the FDA.

The NDA and BLA are thus the vehicles through which applicants formally propose that the FDA approve a new product for marketing and sale in the United States for one or more indications. Every new product candidate must be the subject of an approved NDA or BLA before it may be commercialized in the United States. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs and BLAs is subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA or BLA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. Certain exceptions and waivers are available for some of these fees, such as an exception from the application fee for drugs with orphan designation and a waiver for certain small businesses, an exception from the establishment fee when the establishment does not engage in manufacturing the drug during a particular fiscal year, and an exception from the product fee for a drug that is the same as another drug approved under an abbreviated pathway.

Following submission of an NDA or BLA, the FDA conducts a preliminary review of the application generally within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74th day after the FDA&#8217;s receipt of the submission to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept the application for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs and BLAs. Under that agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for &#8220;priority review&#8221; are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of products that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that FDA receives the application. The review process and the Prescription Drug User Fee Act goal date may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission.

Before approving an application, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections may cover all facilities associated with an NDA or BLA submission, including drug component manufacturing (e.g., active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. In addition , as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. 

The FDA may refer an application for a novel product to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions.

The FDA&#8217;s Decision on an NDA or BLA 

On the basis of the FDA&#8217;s evaluation of the application and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities , the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA 

to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug&#8217;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs . After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy and Priority Review Designations 

The FDA is authorized to designate certain products for expedited review if they are intended to address an unmet medical need in the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. These programs are fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review designation. 

Specifically, the FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and it demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for such a disease or condition. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA and the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#8217;s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if the FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and the FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. However, the FDA&#8217;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Second, in 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Improvement Act. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated as &#8220;breakthrough therapies.&#8221; A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. 

Third, the FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a drug that treats a serious condition and , if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The FDA determines, on a case-by-case basis, whether the proposed drug represents a significant improvement when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting drug reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and to shorten the FDA&#8217;s goal for taking action on a marketing application from ten months to six months.

Post-Approval Regulation

Drugs and biologics manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often 

require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money , and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market . Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#183; 

restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, or complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#160;

&#183; 

fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#160;

&#183; 

refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs , or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; 

&#160;

&#183; 

product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#160;

&#183; 

injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Products may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability.

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, and its implementing regulations, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the regulation of drug distributors by the states. The PDMA, its implementing regulations and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples, and the DSCA imposes requirements to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market.

Generic Drugs 

In 1984, with passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FDCA, Congress established an abbreviated regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve generic drugs that are shown to contain the same active ingredients as, and to be bioequivalent to, drugs previously approved by the FDA pursuant to NDAs. To obtain approval of a generic drug, an applicant must submit an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the agency. An ANDA is a comprehensive submission that contains, among other things, data and information pertaining to the active pharmaceutical ingredient, bioequivalence, drug product formulation, specifications and stability of the generic drug, as well as analytical methods, manufacturing process validation data and quality control procedures. ANDAs are &#8220;abbreviated&#8221; because they generally do not include preclinical and clinical data to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Instead, in support of such applications, a generic manufacturer may rely on the preclinical and clinical testing previously conducted for a drug product previously approved under an NDA, known as the reference-listed drug, or RLD. 

Specifically, in order for an ANDA to be approved, the FDA must find that the generic version is identical to the RLD with respect to the active ingredients, the route of administration, the dosage form, the strength of the drug and the conditions of use of the drug. At the same time, the FDA must also determine that the generic drug is &#8220;bioequivalent&#8221; to the innovator drug. Under the statute, a generic drug is bioequivalent to a RLD if &#8220;the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug...&#8221; Upon approval of an ANDA, the FDA indicates whether the generic product is &#8220;therapeutically equivalent&#8221; to the RLD in its publication &#8220;Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,&#8221; also referred to as the &#8220;Orange Book.&#8221; Physicians and pharmacists consider a therapeutic equivalent generic drug to be fully substitutable for the RLD. In addition, by operation of certain state laws and numerous health insurance programs, the FDA&#8217;s designation of therapeutic equivalence often results in substitution of the generic drug without the knowledge or consent of either the prescribing physician or patient. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the FDA may not approve an ANDA until any applicable period of non-patent exclusivity for the RLD has expired. The FDCA provides a period of five years of non-patent data exclusivity for a new drug containing a new chemical entity. For the purposes of this provision, a new chemical entity, or NCE, is a drug that contains no active 

moiety that has previously been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. An active moiety is the molecule or ion responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. In cases where such NCE exclusivity has been granted, an ANDA may not be filed with the FDA until the expiration of five years unless the submission is accompanied by a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the applicant may submit its application four years following the original product approval. The FDCA also provides for a period of three years of exclusivity if the NDA includes reports of one or more new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, that were conducted by or for the applicant and are essential to the approval of the application. 

Biosimilars

The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was signed into law on March 23, 2010, included a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 or BPCIA. That Act established a regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve biosimilars and interchangeable biosimilars. To date, one biosimilar product has been approved by FDA for use in the United States. No interchangeable biosimilars, however, have been approved. The FDA has issued several guidance documents outlining an approach to review and approval of biosimilars. Additional guidance is expected to be finalized by FDA in the near term.

Under the Act, a manufacturer may submit an application for licensure of a biologic product that is &#8220;biosimilar to&#8221; or &#8220;interchangeable with&#8221; a previously approved biological product or &#8220;reference product.&#8221; In order for the FDA to approve a biosimilar product, it must find that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the reference product and proposed biosimilar product in terms of safety, purity, and potency. For the FDA to approve a biosimilar product as interchangeable with a reference product, the agency must find that the biosimilar product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product, and (for products administered multiple times) that the biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic.

Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product may not be submitted to the FDA until four years following the date of approval of the reference product. The FDA may not approve a biosimilar product until 12 years from the date on which the reference product was approved. Even if a product is considered to be a reference product eligible for exclusivity, another company could market a competing version of that product if the FDA approves a full BLA for such product containing the sponsor&#8217;s own preclinical data and data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of their product. The BPCIA also created certain exclusivity periods for biosimilars approved as interchangeable products. At this juncture, it is unclear whether products deemed &#8220;interchangeable&#8221; by the FDA will, in fact, be readily substituted by pharmacies, which are governed by state pharmacy law.

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a drug product as an &#8220;orphan drug&#8221; if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, generally meaning that it affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. A company must request orphan drug designation before submitting an NDA or BLA for the candidate product. If the request is granted, the FDA will disclose the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential use. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the PDUFA goal dates for the regulatory review and approval process, although it does convey certain advantages such as tax benefits and exemption from the PDUFA application fee. 

If a product with orphan designation receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation or for a select indication or use within the rare disease or condition for which it was designated, the product generally will receive orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that the FDA may not approve another sponsor&#8217;s marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in certain limited circumstances. Orphan exclusivity does not block the approval of a different product for the same rare disease or condition, nor does it block the approval of the same product for different indications. If a drug or biologic designated as an orphan drug ultimately receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what was designated in its orphan drug application, it may not be entitled to exclusivity. Orphan exclusivity will not bar approval of another product under certain circumstances, including if a subsequent product with the same drug or biologic for the same indication is shown to be clinically superior to the approved product on the basis of greater efficacy or safety, or providing a major contribution to patient care, or if the company with orphan drug exclusivity is not able to meet market demand.

Pediatric Exclusivity

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent and orphan exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA or BLA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the 

pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#8217;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. 

Review and Approval of Drug Products in the European Union 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, a company must also comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries and jurisdictions regarding quality, safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials , marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of drug products. Whether or not it obtains FDA approval for a product, the company would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable foreign regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries or jurisdictions. The approval process ultimately varies between countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries and jurisdictions might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Clinical Trial Approval in the EU

Pursuant to the currently applicable Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC and the Directive 2005/28/EC on Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, an applicant must obtain approval from the competent national authority of the EU Member State in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. If the clinical trial is conducted in different EU Member States, the competent authorities in each of these EU Member States must provide their approval for the conduct of the clinical trial. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial at a specific study site after the competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. 

In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable to and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation. The new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. It will overhaul the current system of approvals for clinical trials in the EU. Specifically, the new legislation aims at simplifying and streamlining the approval of clinical trials in the EU. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Marketing Authorization 

In the EU, marketing authorizations for medicinal products may be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process.

The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU Member States. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products produced by certain biotechnological processes, products designated as orphan medicinal products, and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases,. It is optional for those products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. Under the centralized procedure in the EU, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a MAA is 210 days, excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use, or CHMP. Accelerated evaluation may be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases. These are defined as circumstances in which a medicinal product is expected to be of a &#8220;major public health interest.&#8221; Three cumulative criteria must be fulfilled in such circumstances: the seriousness of the disease, such as severely disabling or life-threatening diseases, to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In these circumstances, the EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days.

Under the centralized procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days (excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP). Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is expected to be of a major public health interest, defined by three cumulative criteria: the seriousness of the disease (e.g. heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases) to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In this circumstance, EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days.

The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other concerned EU Member States of an assessment of an application for marketing authorization conducted by one EU Member State, known as the reference EU Member State. In accordance with this procedure, an applicant submits an application for marketing authorization to the reference EU Member State and the concerned EU Member States. This application is identical to the application that would be submitted to the EMA for authorization through the centralized procedure. The reference EU Member State prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. The resulting assessment report is submitted to the concerned EU Member States which, within 90 days of receipt, must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a concerned EU Member State cannot approve the assessment report and related materials due to concerns relating to a potential serious risk to public health , disputed elements may be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all EU Member States. In accordance with the mutual recognition procedure, the sponsor applies for national marketing authorization in one EU Member State. Upon receipt of this authorization the sponsor can then seek the recognition of this authorization by other EU Member States. Authorization in accordance with either of these procedures will result in authorization of the medicinal product only in the reference EU Member State and in the other concerned EU Member States.. 

A marketing authorization may be granted only to an applicant established in the EU. Regulation No. 1901/2006 provides that, prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the EU, an applicant must demonstrate compliance with all measures included in a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA, covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP.

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity in the EU

Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and Regulation (EC) No. 847/2000 provide that a product can be designated as an orphan medicinal product by the European Commission if its sponsor can establish that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of: (1) a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the EU when the application is made, or (2) a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the EU and that without incentives the medicinal product is unlikely to be developed. For either of these conditions, the applicant must demonstrate that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the EU or, if such method exists, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition. 

Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity in all EU Member States and, in addition, a range of other benefits during the development and regulatory review process, including scientific assistance for study protocols, authorization through the centralized marketing authorization procedure covering all member countries and a reduction or elimination of registration and marketing authorization fees. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if the product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and markets in other countries, patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Thus, even if a product candidate is approved, sales of the product will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations, provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for, the product. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and imposing controls to manage costs. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable marketing approvals. Nonetheless, product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover a product candidate could reduce physician utilization once the product is approved and have a material adverse effect on sales, results of operations and financial condition. 

Additionally, a payor&#8217;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#8217;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage and reimbursement for the product, and the level of coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor. 

The containment of healthcare costs also has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit a company&#8217;s revenue generated from the sale of any approved products. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which a company or its collaborators receive marketing approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Outside the United States, ensuring adequate coverage and payment for a product also involves challenges. Pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in many countries. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies or so called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states, and parallel trade, i.e., arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any products, if approved in those countries. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims laws, reporting of payments to physicians and teaching physicians and patient privacy laws and regulations and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain business and/or financial arrangements. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#160;

&#183; 

the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false, fictitious or fraudulent or knowingly making, using or causing to made or used a false record or statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. 

&#160;

&#183; 

the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 

&#160;

&#183; 

HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, which impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the federal false statements statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing &#183;or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the federal transparency requirements known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services, information related to payments and other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to healthcare items or services that are reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. 

Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#8217;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Healthcare Reform 

A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, limiting coverage and reimbursement for drugs and other medical products, government control and other changes to the healthcare system in the United States. 

By way of example, the United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act, which, among other things, includes changes to the coverage and payment for products under government health care programs. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#183; 

an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; 

&#160;

&#183; 

expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#8217;s Medicaid rebate liability; 

&#160;

&#183; 

expanded manufacturers&#8217; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of &#8220;average manufacturer price,&#8221; or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; 

&#160;

&#183; 

addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; 

&#160;

&#183; 

expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; 

&#160;

&#183; 

established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#8217; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 

&#160;

&#183; 

a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the 

&#160;

IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. 

Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation&#8217;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 19 employees worldwide. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Research and Development Costs

Our research and development costs were $12.9 million, $38.3 million, and $68.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These costs consist of the cost of our own independent research and development efforts and the costs associated with collaborative research and development and in-licensing arrangements. Research and development costs, including upfront fees and milestones paid to collaboration partners, are expensed as incurred if the underlying products have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.

Segment and Geographic Information

We view our operations and manage our business in one operating segment. As of December 31, 2015, we operate only in the United States.

Executive Officers

The following table lists the positions, names and ages of our executive officers as of February 29, 2016:

Executive Officers

&#160;

Michael P. Bailey

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Chief Executive Officer, President and Director

Keith S. Ehrlich

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Chief Financial Officer

Michael N. Needle

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Chief Medical Officer

&#160;

Michael P. Bailey was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors effective January 6, 2015. Mr. Bailey joined our company in September 2010 as our Chief Commercial Officer and was named our Chief Business Officer in June 2013. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Bailey served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Chief Commercial Officer at Synta Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on research, development and commercialization of oncology medicines, from 2008 to September 2010. From 1999 to 2008, Mr. Bailey worked at ImClone Systems Incorporated, a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of treatments for cancer patients. During his nine-year tenure at ImClone, he was responsible for commercial aspects of the planning and launch of ERBITUX &#174; (cetuximab) across multiple oncology indications, as well as new product planning for the ImClone development portfolio, which included CYRAMZA &#174; (ramucirumab) and necitumumab. In addition, Mr. Bailey was a key member of the strategic leadership committees for ImClone and its North American and worldwide partnerships and led their commercial organization, most recently as Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations. Prior to his role at ImClone. Mr. Bailey managed the cardiovascular development portfolio at Genentech, Inc., a biotechnology company, from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Bailey started his career in the pharmaceutical industry as part of Smith-Kline Beecham&#8217;s Executive Marketing Development Program, where he held a variety of commercial roles from 1992 to 1997, including sales, strategic planning, and product management. Mr. Bailey received a B.S. in psychology from St. Lawrence University and an M.B.A. in international marketing from the Mendoza College of Business at University of Notre Dame. 

Keith S. Ehrlich, C.P.A . was appointed Chief Financial Officer in April 2015. Mr. Ehrlich has acted as a financial consultant to the Company from February 2015 to April 2015. Prior to joining our company, he worked with Synta. Mr. Ehrlich served as Synta&#8217;s vice president of finance and administration from March 2004 until February 2015, and as its Chief Financial Officer from October 2006 to December 2014 . Prior to Synta, Mr. Ehrlich served in various senior finance roles, including Chief Financial Officer of Argentys Corporation , Dyax Corp. and OraVax, Inc. Mr. Ehrlich also previously served as a director of finance at Vertex Pharmaceuticals , Inc. and as a senior audit manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP. Mr. Ehrlich received his B.A. in Biology from Drew University and his M.B.A. in Finance and Accounting from Rutgers University . 

Michael N. Needle, MD was appointed Chief Medical Officer in January 2015. Dr. Needle has more than 15 years of pharmaceutical industry experience in drug development and regulatory affairs. This includes central roles in the development of oncology and hematology drugs, including Erbitux &#174; (cetuximab), Revlimid &#174; (lenalidomide) and Pomalyst &#174; (pomolidimide). He most recently served as Chief Medical Officer for Array BioPharma Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, from April 2013 to September 2014. Prior to Array, Dr. Needle was Chief Medical Officer of the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation and Consortium (MMRF), a research organization, from April 2012 to April 2013. Prior to MMRF, he held multiple Vice President level positions at Celgene Corporation, a biotechnology company, in Clinical Research and Development in Oncology, Strategic Medical Business Development, and Pediatric Strategy from March 2004 to April 2010. Dr. Needle also served as the Vice President of Clinical Affairs at ImClone from April 2000 to February 2004. Dr. Needle received his fellowship in Pediatric Hematology/Oncology at the Children&#8217;s Hospital Medical Center, the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center of the University of Washington in Seattle and the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Dr. Needle has held faculty positions at the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University. Dr. Needle graduated from Binghamton University with a Bachelor of Arts in Physics and received his medical degree from SUNY Downstate Medical Center, in Brooklyn, New York. 

Available Information

We file reports and other information with the SEC as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. You can find, copy, and inspect information we file at the SEC&#8217;s public reference room, which is located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the SEC&#8217;s public reference room. You can review our electronically filed reports and other information that we file with the SEC on the SEC&#8217;s web site at http://www.sec.gov.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 19, 2001 as GenPath Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and changed our name to AVEO Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on March 1, 2005. Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Broadway, 14 th Floor, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02142, and our telephone number is (617) 588-1960. Our Internet website is http://www.aveooncology.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available, free of charge on our website, the reports filed with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders pursuant to Section 16 under the Exchange Act. We make these reports available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC, or, in the case of Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after copies of those filings are provided to us by the filing persons. In addition, we regularly use our website to post information regarding our business, product development programs and governance, and we encourage investors to use our website, particularly the information in the section entitled &#8220;For Investors&#8221; and &#8220;For Media,&#8221; as a source of information about us.

We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors and employees, as well as charters for our audit committee, our compensation committee and our nominating and governance committee, and corporate governance guidelines. We have posted copies of our code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines, as well as each of our committee charters, on the Corporate Governance page of the Investors section of our website, which you can access free of charge.

The foregoing references to our website are not intended to, nor shall they be deemed to, incorporate information on our website into this report by reference.

&#160;

&#160;

