 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

We are a premier provider of specialized polymer materials, services and solutions with operations in specialty polymer formulations, color and additive systems, plastic sheet and packaging solutions and polymer distribution. We are also a highly specialized developer and manufacturer of performance enhancing additives, liquid colorants and fluoropolymers &#32; and silicone colorants. Headquartered in Avon Lake, Ohio, we have employees at sales, manufacturing and distribution facilities in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. We provide value to our customers through our ability to link our knowledge of polymers and formulation technology with our manufacturing and supply chain capabilities to provide value added solutions to designers, assemblers and processors of plastics (our customers). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221;, "PolyOne" and the &#8220;Company&#8221; mean PolyOne Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

PolyOne was formed on August 31, 2000 from the consolidation of The Geon Company (Geon) and M.A. Hanna Company (Hanna). Geon&#8217;s roots date back to 1927 when BFGoodrich scientist Waldo Semon produced the first usable vinyl polymer. In 1948, BFGoodrich created a vinyl plastic division that was subsequently spun off through a public offering in 1993, creating Geon, a separate publicly-held company. Hanna was formed in 1885 as a privately-held company and became publicly-held in 1927. In the mid-1980s, Hanna began to divest its historic mining and shipping businesses to focus on polymers. Hanna purchased its first polymer company in 1986 and completed its 26 th &#32;polymer company acquisition in 2000. 

PolyOne Corporation is incorporated in Ohio and headquartered in Avon Lake, Ohio. We employ approximately 6,900 &#32;people and have 76 &#32;manufacturing sites and eight &#32;distribution facilities in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. We offer more than 35,000 &#32;polymer solutions to over 10,000 &#32;customers across the globe. In 2015, we had sales of $3.4 billion , 34% &#32;of which were to customers outside the United States. 

We provide value to our customers with solutions built upon our ability to leverage our polymer and formulation expertise with our operational capabilities, being the essential link between large chemical producers (our raw material suppliers) and designers, assemblers and processors of plastics (our customers). We believe that our role in the value chain continues to become more essential as our customers need reliable suppliers with global reach and more effective solutions to improve their profitability and competitive advantage. Our goal is to provide our customers with specialized materials and service solutions through our global reach, broad market knowledge, technical expertise, product breadth, efficient manufacturing operations, a fully integrated information technology network and raw material procurement leverage. Our end markets are primarily in transportation, packaging, building and construction, industrial, healthcare, consumer, wire and cable, electrical and electronics, and appliance. 

Polymer Industry Overview 

Polymers are a class of organic materials that are generally produced by converting natural gas or crude oil derivatives into monomers, such as ethylene, propylene, vinyl chloride and styrene. These monomers are then polymerized into chains called polymers, or plastic resin, such as polyethylene and polypropylene, in their most basic forms. Large petrochemical companies, including some in the petroleum industry, produce a majority of the monomers and base resins because they have direct access to the raw materials needed for production. Monomers make up the majority of the variable cost of manufacturing the base resin. As a result, the cost of a base resin tends to move in tandem with the industry market prices for monomers and the cost of raw materials and energy used 

2 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

during production. Resin selling prices can move in tandem with costs, but are largely driven by supply and demand. 

Thermoplastic polymers make up a substantial majority of the resin market and are characterized by their ability to be reshaped repeatedly into new forms after heat and pressure are applied. Thermoplastics offer versatility and a wide range of applications. The major types of thermoplastics include polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, polypropylene, polystyrene, polyester and a range of specialized engineering resins. Each type of thermoplastic has unique qualities and characteristics that make it appropriate for use in a particular application. Thermoplastic composites include these base resins, but are combined with a structural filler such as glass, wood, carbon or polymer fibers to enhance strength, rigidity and structure. Further performance can be delivered through an engineered thermoplastic sheet or thick film, which may incorporate more than one resin formulation or composite in multiple layers to impart additional properties such as gas barrier, structural integrity and lightweighting. 

Thermoplastic and polymer composites are found in a variety of end-use products and markets, including packaging, building and construction, wire and cable, transportation, medical, furniture and furnishings, durable goods, electrical and electronics, adhesives, inks and coatings. Each type of thermoplastic resin has unique characteristics (such as flexibility, strength or durability) suitable for use in a particular end-use application. The packaging industry requires plastics that help keep food fresh and free of contamination while providing a variety of options for product display, and offering advantages in terms of weight and user-friendliness. In the building and construction industry, plastic provides an economical and energy efficient replacement for other traditional materials in piping applications, siding, flooring, insulation, windows and doors, as well as structural and interior or decorative uses. In the wire and cable industry, thermoplastics serve to protect by providing electrical insulation, flame resistance, durability, water resistance, and color coding to wire coatings and connectors. In the transportation industry, plastic has proven to be durable, lightweight and corrosion resistant while offering fuel savings, design flexibility and high performance, often replacing traditional materials such as metal and glass. In the medical industry, plastics are used for a vast array of devices and equipment, including blood and intravenous bags, medical tubing, catheters, lead replacement for radiation shielding, clamps and connectors to bed frames, curtains and sheeting, electronic enclosures and equipment housings. In the electronics industry, plastic enclosures and connectors not only enhance safety through electrical insulation, but thermally and electrically conductive plastics provide heat transferring, cooling, antistatic, electrostatic discharge, and electromagnetic shielding performance for critical applications including integrated circuit chip packaging. 

Various additives can be formulated with a base resin and further engineered into a structure to provide them with greater versatility and performance. Polymer formulations and structures have advantages over metals, wood, rubber, glass and other traditional materials, which have resulted in the replacement of these materials across a wide spectrum of applications that range from automobile parts to construction materials. These specialized polymers offer advantages compared to traditional materials that include design freedom, processability, weight reduction, chemical resistance, flame retardance and lower cost. Plastics are renowned for their durability, aesthetics, ease of handling and recyclability. 

PolyOne Segments 

We operate in five reportable segments: (1) Color, Additives and Inks; (2) Specialty Engineered Materials; (3) Designed Structures and Solutions; (4) Performance Products and Solutions; and (5) PolyOne Distribution. &#32; 

On December 9, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of specialty color concentrates of Magenta Master Fibers (Magenta) for $18.3 million, net of cash acquired. The Magenta acquisition complements our Color business by providing specialty solid color concentrates in a wide-range of applications, including clothing and apparel, outdoor equipment, high-performance products and the transportation industry. Magenta's results are included within the Color, Additives and Inks segment. 

On December 1, 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of specialty assets of Accella Performance Materials (Accella) for $47.2 million, net of cash acquired. The Accella acquisition complements the existing specialty business portfolio by providing specialty coating solutions and value-added services in a wide-range of applications, including consumer products, interior and under-the-hood automotive parts, outdoor recreational equipment and food packaging. Accella's results are included within the Color, Additives and Inks segment. 

On May 30, 2013, we sold our vinyl dispersion, blending and suspension resin assets (Resin Business) to Mexichem Specialty Resins Inc. (Mexichem). As a result of the sale, the Resin Business has been removed from the Performance Products and Solutions segment and is presented as a discontinued operation in all periods presented. 

3 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

On March 13, 2013, PolyOne acquired Spartech Corporation (Spartech), a supplier of sustainable plastic sheet, color and engineered materials, and packaging solutions. The acquisition of Spartech has provided substantial synergies through enhanced operational cost efficiencies and has expanded PolyOne's specialty portfolio. 

Spartech's results have been reflected within our Consolidated Statements of Income and within our Designed Structures and Solutions segment, as well as within our Specialty Engineered Materials, Color, Additives and Inks and Performance Products and Solutions segments, since the date of acquisition. 

Our segments are further discussed in Note 16, &#32; Segment Information . 

Color, Additives and Inks 

Color, Additives and Inks is a leading provider of specialized custom color and additive concentrates in solid and liquid form for thermoplastics, dispersions for thermosets, as well as specialty inks, plastisols, and vinyl slush molding solutions. Color and additive solutions include an innovative array of colors, special effects and performance-enhancing and eco-friendly solutions. When combined with a non-base resin, our solutions help customers achieve differentiated specialized colors and effects targeted at the demands of today&#8217;s highly design-oriented consumer and industrial end markets. Our additive concentrates encompass a wide variety of performance and process enhancing characteristics and are commonly categorized by the function that they perform, such as UV stabilization, antimicrobial, anti-static, blowing or foaming, antioxidant, lubricant, and productivity enhancement. Our colorant and additives concentrates are used in a broad range of polymers, including those used in medical and pharmaceutical devices, food packaging, personal care and cosmetics, transportation, building products, wire and cable markets. We also provide custom-formulated liquid systems that meet a variety of customer needs and chemistries, including vinyl, natural rubber and latex, polyurethane and silicone. Our offerings also include proprietary inks and latexes for diversified markets such as recreational and athletic apparel, construction and filtration, outdoor furniture and healthcare. Our liquid polymer coatings and additives are largely based on vinyl and are used in a variety of markets, including building and construction, consumer, healthcare, industrial, packaging, textiles, appliances, transportation, and wire and cable. Color, Additives and Inks has manufacturing, sales and service facilities located throughout North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. &#32; 

Specialty Engineered Materials 

Specialty Engineered Materials is a leading provider of specialty polymer formulations, services and solutions for designers, assemblers and processors of thermoplastic materials across a wide variety of markets and end-use applications. Our product portfolio, which we believe to be one of the most diverse in our industry, includes specialty formulated high-performance polymer materials that are manufactured using thermoplastic resins and elastomers, which are then combined with advanced polymer additives, reinforcement, filler, colorant and/or biomaterial technologies. Our technical and market expertise enables us to expand the performance range and structural properties of traditional engineering-grade thermoplastic resins to meet evolving customer needs. Specialty Engineered Materials has manufacturing, sales and service facilities located throughout North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Our product development and application reach is further enhanced by the capabilities of our Innovation Centers in the United States, Germany and China, which produce and evaluate prototype and sample parts to help assess end-use performance and guide product development. Our manufacturing capabilities are targeted at meeting our customers&#8217; demand for speed, flexibility and critical quality. &#32; 

Designed Structures and Solutions 

On March 13, 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of Spartech, a supplier of plastic sheet, color and engineered materials, and packaging solutions. As a result of the acquisition, a new reportable segment, "Designed Structures and Solutions", was created. We believe PolyOne's Designed Structures and Solutions segment is a market leader in providing specialized, full service and innovative solutions in engineered polymer structures, rigid barrier packaging and specialty cast acrylics. We utilize a variety of polymers, specialty additives and processing technologies to produce a complete portfolio of sheet, custom rollstock and specialty film, laminate and acrylic solutions. Our solutions can be engineered to provide structural or functional performance in an application or design and visual aesthetics to meet our customers&#8217; needs. Our offerings also include a wide range of sustainable, cost-effective stock and custom packaging solutions for various industry processes used in the food, medical, and consumer markets. In addition to packaging, we also work closely with customers to provide solutions for transportation, building and construction, healthcare and consumer markets. Designed Structures and Solutions has manufacturing, sales and service facilities located throughout North America. &#32; 

4 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

Performance Products and Solutions 

Performance Products and Solutions is comprised of the Geon Performance Materials (Geon) and Producer Services business units. The Geon business delivers an array of products and services for vinyl molding and extrusion processors located in North America and Asia. The Geon TM &#32;brand name carries strong recognition globally. Geon's products are sold to manufacturers of durable plastic parts and consumer-oriented products. We also offer a wide range of services including materials testing, component analysis, custom formulation development, colorant and additive services, part design assistance, structural analysis, process simulations, mold design and flow analysis and extruder screw design. Vinyl is used across a broad range of markets and applications, including, but not limited to: healthcare, wire and cable, building and construction, consumer and recreational products and transportation and packaging. The Producer Services business unit offers contract manufacturing and outsourced polymer manufacturing services to resin producers and polymer marketers, primarily in the United States and Mexico, as well as its own proprietary compounds for pressure pipe and drip irrigation applications. As a strategic and integrated supply chain partner, Producer Services offers resin producers a capital-efficient way to effectively develop custom products for niche markets by leveraging its extensive process technology expertise, broad manufacturing capabilities and geographic locations. PolyOne Distribution 

The PolyOne Distribution business distributes more than 3,500 grades of engineering and commodity grade resins, including PolyOne-produced solutions, principally to the North American and Asian markets. These products are sold to over 6,000 custom injection molders and extruders who, in turn, convert them into plastic parts that are sold to end-users in a wide range of industries. Representing over 25 major suppliers, we offer our customers a broad product portfolio, just-in-time delivery from multiple stocking locations and local technical support. Recent expansion in Central America and Asia have bolstered PolyOne Distribution's ability to serve the specialized needs of customers globally. 

Competition 

The production of plastics and the manufacturing of custom and proprietary formulated color and additives systems for the plastics industry are highly competitive. Competition is based on service, performance, product innovation, product recognition, speed, delivery, quality and price. The relative importance of these factors varies among our products and services. We believe that we are the largest independent formulator of plastic materials and producer of custom and proprietary color and additive systems in the United States and Europe, with a growing presence in Asia and South America. Our competitors range from large international companies with broad product offerings to local independent custom producers whose focus is a specific market niche or product offering. 

The distribution of polymer resin is also highly competitive. Speed, service, reputation, product line, brand recognition, delivery, quality and price, are the principal factors affecting competition. We compete against other national independent resin distributors in North America, along with other regional distributors. Growth in the polymer distribution market is highly correlated with growth in the base polymer resins market. We believe that the strength of our company name and reputation, the broad range of product offerings from our suppliers and our speed and responsiveness, combined with the quality of products and agility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively. 

Raw Materials 

The primary raw materials used by our manufacturing operations are polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resin, polyolefin and other thermoplastic resins, plasticizers, inorganic and organic pigments, all of which we believe are in adequate supply. We have a long-term supply contract with Oxy Vinyls LP, a former equity investment affiliate, under which the majority of our PVC resin is supplied. This contract contains a year-by-year evergreen renewal provision, unless terminated by either party with a one-year advance notice. We believe this contract assures the availability of adequate amounts of PVC resin. We also believe that the pricing under this contract provides PVC resins to us at a competitive cost. See the discussion of risks associated with raw material supply and costs in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We own and maintain a number of patents and trademarks in the United States and other key countries that contribute to our competitiveness in the markets we serve because they protect our inventions and product names against infringement by others. Patents exist for 20 years from filing date, and trademarks have an indefinite life based upon continued use. While we view our patents and trademarks to be valuable because of the broad scope of our products and services and brand recognition we enjoy, we do not believe that the loss or expiration of any 

5 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

single patent or trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Nevertheless, we have management processes designed to protect our inventions and trademarks. 

Seasonality and Backlog 

Sales of our products and services are slightly seasonal as demand is generally slower in the first and fourth calendar quarters of the year. Because of the nature of our business, we do not believe that our backlog is a meaningful indicator of the level of our present or future business. 

Working Capital Practices 

Our products are generally manufactured with a short turnaround time, and the scheduling of manufacturing activities from customer orders generally includes enough lead time to assure delivery of an adequate supply of raw materials. We offer payment terms to our customers that are competitive. We generally allow our customers to return merchandise if pre-agreed quality standards or specifications are not met; however, we employ quality assurance practices that seek to minimize customer returns. Our customer returns are immaterial. 

Significant Customers 

No customer accounted for more than 2% of our consolidated revenues in 2015, and we do not believe we would suffer a material adverse effect to our consolidated financial statements if we were to lose any single customer. 

Research and Development 

We have substantial technology and development capabilities. Our efforts are largely devoted to developing new product formulations to satisfy defined market needs, by providing quality technical services to evaluate alternative raw materials, assuring the continued success of our products for customer applications, providing technology to improve our products, processes and applications, and providing support to our manufacturing plants for cost reduction, productivity and quality improvement programs. We operate research and development centers that support our commercial development activities and manufacturing operations. These facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art analytical, synthesis, polymer characterization and testing equipment, along with pilot plants and polymer manufacturing operations that simulate specific production processes that allow us to rapidly translate new technologies into new products. Our investment in product research and development from continuing operations was $53.0 million in 2015, $53.4 million &#32;in 2014 and $52.6 million &#32;in 2013. On a constant currency basis, our investment in research and development from continuing operations for 2015 was $55.5 million compared to $53.4 million in 2014. 

Methods of Distribution 

We sell products primarily through direct sales personnel, distributors, including our PolyOne Distribution segment, and commissioned sales agents. We primarily use truck carriers to transport our products to customers, although some customers pick up product at our manufacturing facilities or warehouses. We also ship some of our manufactured products to customers by rail. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 6,900 &#32;people. Approximately 4% of our employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that relations with our employees are good, and we do not anticipate significant operating issues to occur as a result of current negotiations, or when we renegotiate collective bargaining agreements as they expire. 

Environmental, Health and Safety 

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to the production, use and sale of chemicals, emissions into the air, discharges into waterways and other releases of materials into the environment and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste material. We endeavor to ensure the safe and lawful operation of our facilities in the manufacture and distribution of products, and we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. 

We maintain a disciplined environmental and occupational safety and health compliance program and conduct periodic internal and external regulatory audits at our facilities to identify and correct potential environmental exposures, including compliance matters and operational risk reduction opportunities. This effort can result in process or operational modifications, the installation of pollution control devices or cleaning up grounds or facilities. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable requirements. 

6 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

We are strongly committed to safety as evidenced by our injury incidence rate of 0.74 per 100 full-time workers per year in 2015, compared to 0.84 in 2014. The 2014 average injury incidence rate for our NAICS Code (326 Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing) was 4.6. 

In our operations, we must comply with product-related governmental law and regulations affecting the plastics industry generally and also with content-specific law, regulations and non-governmental standards. We believe that compliance with current governmental laws and regulations and with non-governmental content-specific standards will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The risk of additional costs and liabilities, however, is inherent in certain plant operations and certain products produced at these plants, as is the case with other companies in the plastics industry. Therefore, we may incur additional costs or liabilities in the future. Other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and related enforcement policies, including those under the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (covering Conflict Minerals), and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, the implementation of additional content-specific standards, discovery of unknown conditions, and claims for damages to property, persons or natural resources resulting from plant emissions or products, could also result in additional costs or liabilities. 

A number of foreign countries and domestic communities have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws and regulations concerning the use and disposal of plastic materials. Widespread adoption of these laws and regulations, along with public perception, may have an adverse impact on sales of plastic materials. Although many of our major markets are in durable, longer-life applications that could reduce the impact of these kinds of environmental regulations, more stringent regulation of the use and disposal of plastics may have an adverse effect on our business. 

We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and by private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party (PRP) in connection with the investigation and remediation of certain environmental sites. While government agencies frequently assert that PRPs are jointly and severally liable at these sites, in our experience, the interim and final allocations of liability costs are generally made based on the relative contribution of waste. We initiate corrective and preventive environmental projects of our own to ensure safe and lawful activities at our operations. We believe that compliance with current governmental regulations at all levels will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

We incurred environmental expenses, before insurance recoveries, of $9.3 million &#32;in 2015, $ 10.3 million &#32;in 2014 and $ 61.2 million &#32;in 2013. Our environmental expense in 2015, 2014 and 2013 related mostly to ongoing remediation projects. The 2013 expense also included a $47.0 million adjustment to our Calvert City reserve, which is discussed further in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies . In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized gains associated with insurance recoveries of $3.5 million , $3.7 million &#32;and $23.5 million , respectively, as reimbursement of previously incurred environmental remediation costs. 

We also conduct investigations and remediation at certain of our active and inactive facilities and have assumed responsibility for the resulting environmental liabilities from operations at certain sites we, or our predecessors, formerly owned or operated. We believe that our potential continuing liability at these sites will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. As of December 31, 2015, our reserves totaled $119.9 million , covering probable future environmental expenditures that we can reasonably estimate related to previously contaminated sites. This amount represents our best estimate of probable costs, based upon the information and technology currently available. We continue to pursue available insurance coverage related to these matters and recognize gains as we receive reimbursement. No receivable has been recognized for future recoveries. 

Refer to Note 13, &#32; Commitments and Contingencies , for further discussion of our environmental liabilities. 

We expect 2016 environmental cash expenditures to approximate $10.2 million. 

International Operations 

Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, exchange controls, currency restrictions and changes in local economic conditions. While the impact of these risks is difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our future operations. For more information about our international operations, see Note 16, &#32; Segment Information , to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

7 &#32;&#32; POLYONE CORPORATION 

Where You Can Find Additional Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 33587 Walker Road, Avon Lake, Ohio 44012, and our telephone number is (440) 930-1000. We are subject to the information reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and, in accordance with these requirements, we file annual, quarterly and other reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC relating to our business, financial results and other matters. The reports, proxy statements and other information we file may be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room and via the SEC&#8217;s website (see below for more information). 

You may inspect a copy of the reports, proxy statements and other information we file with the SEC, without charge, at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain copies of the reports, proxy statements and other information we file with the SEC, from those offices for a fee. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings are available to the public at the SEC&#8217;s website at http:// www.sec.gov . 

Our Internet address is www.polyone.com . Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website ( www.polyone.com, &#32;select Investors &#32;and then SEC Edgar filings ) or upon written request, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference into this Form 10-K of the information contained at that site. 

