 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Axalta Coating Systems Ltd. ("Axalta," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us"), a Bermuda exempted company formed at the direction of an affiliate of The Carlyle Group L.P. ("Carlyle"), was incorporated on August 24, 2012 for the purpose of consummating the acquisition of DuPont Performance Coatings ("DPC"), a business formerly owned by E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("DuPont"), including certain assets of DPC and all of the capital stock and other equity interests of certain entities engaged in the DPC business (the "Acquisition"). Axalta, through its wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries, acquired DPC on February 1, 2013. 

We are a leading global manufacturer, marketer and distributor of high performance coatings systems. Based on market information from 2014, we generate approximately 90% of our revenue in markets where we hold the #1 or #2 global market position, including the #1 position in our core automotive refinish end-market with approximately a 25% global market share. We have a 150-year heritage in the coatings industry and are known for manufacturing high-quality products with well-recognized brands supported by market-leading technology and customer service. Over the course of our history we have remained at the forefront of our industry by continually developing innovative coatings technologies designed to enhance the performance and appearance of our customers' products, while improving their productivity and profitability. 

Our diverse global footprint of 36 &#32;manufacturing facilities, four &#32;technology centers, 46 &#32;customer training centers and more than 12,800 &#32;employees allows us to meet the needs of customers in over 130 &#32;countries. We serve our customer base through an extensive sales force and technical support organization, as well as through over 4,000 &#32;independent, locally-based distributors. Our scale and strong local presence are critical to our success, allowing us to leverage our technology portfolio and customer relationships globally while meeting customer demands locally. 

Our business is organized into two segments, Performance Coatings and Transportation Coatings, serving four end-markets globally as highlighted below. See further discussion in Note 25 to our consolidated and combined financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Table above reflects numbers for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Net sales for our four end-markets and four regions for the year ended December 31, 2015 are highlighted below: 

Note: Latin America includes Mexico 

SEGMENT OVERVIEW 

Performance Coatings 

Through our Performance Coatings segment we provide high-quality liquid and powder coatings solutions to a fragmented and local customer base. We are one of only a few suppliers with the technology to provide precise color matching and highly durable coatings systems. The end-markets within this segment are refinish and industrial. 

Note: Latin America includes Mexico 

Performance Coatings End-Markets 

Refinish 

Sales in the refinish end-market are driven by the number of vehicle collisions and owners&#8217; propensity to repair their vehicles. Although refinish coatings typically represent only a small portion of the overall vehicle repair cost, they are critical to the vehicle owner&#8217;s satisfaction given their impact on appearance. As a result, body shop operators are most focused on coatings brands with a strong track record of performance and reliability. Body shops look for suppliers and brands with productivity enhancements, regulatory compliance, consistent quality, the presence of ongoing technical support and exact color match technologies. Color matching is a critical component of coatings supplier selection, since inexact matching adversely impacts vehicle appearance and can significantly impact the speed and volume of repairs at a given shop. 

We develop, market and supply a complete portfolio of innovative coatings systems and color matching technologies to facilitate faster automotive collision repairs relative to competing technologies. Our color matching technology provides Axalta-specific formulations that enable body shops to accurately match thousands of vehicle colors, regardless of vehicle brand, color, age or supplier of the original paint during production. It would be time consuming and costly for a new entrant to create such an extensive color inventory. 

Industrial 

The industrial end-market is comprised of liquid and powder coatings used in a broad array of end-market applications. Within the industrial end-market, we focus on the following: 

&#8226; 

General Industrial : coatings for a wide and diverse array of applications, including HVAC, shelving, appliances and electrical storage components, as well as specialized coatings used for coating the interior of metal drums and packaging. 

&#8226; 

Electrical Insulation : coatings to insulate copper wire used in motors and transformers and coatings to insulate sheets forming magnetic circuits of motors and transformers. 

&#8226; 

Architectural : exterior powder coatings typically used in the construction of commercial structures, residential windows and doors, as well as liquid interior and exterior house paint. 

&#8226; 

Transportation : coatings for vehicle components, chassis and wheels to protect against corrosion, provide increased durability and impart appropriate aesthetics. 

&#8226; 

Oil &#38; Gas : powder products to coat tanks, pipelines, valves and fittings protecting against chemicals, corrosion and extreme temperatures in the oil &#38; gas industry. 

Demand in this end-market is driven by a wide variety of macroeconomic factors, such as growth in GDP and industrial production. There has also been an increase in demand for products that enhance environmental sustainability, corrosion resistance and productivity. These global trends are bolstered by regional and industry specific trends. Customers select industrial coatings based on protection, durability and appearance. 

Performance Coatings Products and Brands 

We offer a comprehensive range of specially-formulated waterborne and solventborne products and systems used by the global automotive repair industry to refinish damaged vehicles. Our refinish products and systems include a range of coatings layers required to match the vehicle&#8217;s color and appearance, producing an indistinguishable repair. 

We provide a system that allows body shops to match more than 180,000 &#32;active color variations, using over four million formulations, in the global market. Our color science is manifested in our tints, one of the most technologically advanced parts of the refinish coatings system, which makes up the majority of our products in a body shop. We have a large color library and a number of well-known, long-standing brands, including Cromax, Standox and Spies Hecker. 

Our color matching and retrieval systems allow customers to quickly match any color, preventing body shop technicians from having to repeat the color matching process multiple times, saving time and materials. The color matching process begins with a technician scanning a damaged vehicle with one of our advanced color matching tools, such as our AcquireRx hand-held spectrophotometer. AcquireRx will determine the unique flake and color characteristics for the specific vehicle. These characteristics may vary significantly, even for vehicles of the same make, model and original color, based on a variety of factors, including a vehicle&#8217;s age, plant at which it was assembled, weather conditions and operating history. AcquireRx electronically connects with our ColorNet database, which indicates to the technician the precise mix of tints and colors needed to recreate that specific color instance. In addition to AcquireRx, we offer our customers several other color matching tools, including our VINdicator database, which identifies vehicle color based on its vehicle identification number, and traditional color matching wheels. 

We are also a leading global developer, manufacturer and supplier of functional and decorative liquid and powder coatings for a large number of diversified applications in the industrial end-market. We provide a full portfolio of products for applications including architectural cladding and fittings, automotive coatings, general industrial, job coaters, electrical insulation coatings, HVAC, appliances, rebar and oil &#38; gas pipelines. Our liquid systems are used to provide insulation and corrosion protection for electrical conductors and components, provide chemical resistance for the interiors of metal packaging drums, protect automotive parts and serve as basecoats for alloy and steel wheels. Powder coatings products are often an environmentally responsible, lower cost alternative to liquid coatings. These coatings are typically electrostatically sprayed using a specialized spray gun and cured to create a uniform, high-quality finish. In the oil &#38; gas industry our powder products are used to protect components from corrosion and severe conditions such as extreme temperatures. 

Our industrial brands include Voltatex, AquaEC, Chemophan, Lutophen, Stollaquid and Syntopal for liquid coatings and Alesta, Nap-Gard and Abcite for powder. 

Performance Coatings Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We leverage a large global refinish sales and technical support team to effectively serve our broad refinish customer base of approximately 80,000 &#32;body shops. The majority of our products are supplied by our network of over 4,000 &#32;independent local distributors. In select regions, such as in parts of Europe, we also sell directly to customers. Distributors maintain an inventory of our products to fill orders from body shops in their market and assume credit risk and responsibility for logistics, delivery and billing. In certain countries, we utilize importers that buy directly from us and actively market our products to body shops. Our relationships with our top ten distributors are longstanding and continue to contribute to our success in the global refinish market. 

Our large sales force manages relationships directly with our customers to drive demand for our products, which in turn are purchased through our distributor network. Due to the local nature of the refinish industry, our sales force operates on a regional/country basis to provide clients with responsive customer service and local insight. As part of their coverage efforts, salespeople introduce new products to body shops and provide technical support and ongoing training. We have established 46 &#32;customer training centers, which helps to deepen our customer relationships. 

Our sales force also helps to drive shop productivity improvements and to install or upgrade body shop color matching and mixing equipment to improve shop profitability. Once a coating and color system is installed, a body shop almost exclusively uses its specific supplier&#8217;s products. The proprietary nature of a coatings supplier&#8217;s color systems, the substantial inventory needed to support a body shop and the body shop&#8217;s familiarity with an established brand lead to high levels of customer retention. Our customer retention rate levels have been and continue to be strong. 

To effectively reach our customers in the industrial end-market we generally ship directly and leverage a dedicated sales force and technical service team that operates on a regional basis. We are one of only three truly global powder coatings producers that can satisfy the needs and specifications of a customer in multiple regions of the world, while maximizing productivity from the broad scale and scope of our operations. 

Performance Coatings Customers 

Within our Performance Coatings segment, we sell coatings to customers in more than 130 &#32;countries. No single customer represented more than 6% &#32;of our Performance Coatings net sales and our top ten customers accounted for less than 16% &#32;of our Performance Coatings net sales during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

We serve a broad, fragmented customer base of approximately 80,000 &#32;body shops, including: 

&#8226; 

Independent Body Shops: &#32;Single location body shops that utilize premium, mainstream or economy brands based on the local market. 

&#8226; 

Multi-Shop Operators ("MSOs"): &#32;Body shops with more than one location focused on providing premium paint jobs with industry leading efficiency. MSOs use premium/mainstream coatings and state-of-the-art painting technology to increase shop productivity, allowing them to repair more vehicles faster. 

&#8226; 

Original Equipment Manufacturer ("OEM") Dealership Body Shops : High-productivity body shops, located in OEM car dealerships, that operate like MSOs and provide premium services to customers using premium/mainstream coatings. 

Performance Coatings Competition 

Our primary competitors in the refinish end-market include PPG, BASF and Akzo Nobel, but we also compete against regional players in local markets. Similarly, in industrial coatings, we compete against multi-national suppliers, such as Akzo Nobel, PPG, Valspar and BASF, and regional players in local markets. We are one of the few performance coatings companies that can provide the customer service, technology, color design capability and product performance necessary to deliver exceptional value to our customers. 

Transportation Coatings 

Through our Transportation Coatings segment, we provide advanced coating technologies to OEMs of light and commercial vehicles. These increasingly global customers require a high level of technical support coupled with cost-effective, environmentally responsible coatings systems that can be applied with a high degree of precision, consistency and speed. 

Note: Latin America includes Mexico 

Transportation Coatings End-Markets 

Light Vehicle 

Demand for light vehicle products is driven by the production of light vehicles in a particular region. Light vehicle OEMs select coatings providers on the basis of their global ability to deliver advanced technological solutions that improve exterior appearance and durability and provide long-term corrosion protection. Customers also look for suppliers that can enhance process efficiency to reduce overall manufacturing costs and provide on-site technical support. Rigorous environmental and durability testing as well as obtaining engineering approvals are also key criteria used by global light vehicle OEMs when selecting coatings providers. Globally integrated suppliers are important because they offer products with consistent standards across regions and are able to deliver high-quality products in sufficient quantity while meeting OEM service requirements. Our global scale, differentiated technology platform and customer focus, including on-site support, position us to be a global partner and solutions provider to the most discerning and demanding light vehicle OEMs. We are one of the few coatings producers that can provide OEMs with global product specifications, standardized color development, compatibility with an ever-increasing number of substrates, increasingly complex colors and environmentally responsible coatings while continuing to simplify and reduce steps in the coatings application process. 

Commercial Vehicle 

Sales in the commercial vehicle end-market are generated from a variety of applications including non-automotive transportation ( e.g. , heavy-duty truck ("HDT"), bus and rail) and agricultural construction equipment ("ACE"), as well as related markets such as trailers, recreational vehicles and personal sport vehicles. This end-market is primarily driven by global commercial vehicle production, which is influenced by overall economic activity, government infrastructure spending, equipment replacement cycles and evolving environmental standards. 

Commercial vehicle OEMs select coatings providers on the basis of their ability to consistently deliver advanced technological solutions that improve exterior appearance, protection and durability and provide extensive color libraries and matching capabilities at the lowest total cost-in-use, while meeting stringent environmental requirements. Particularly for HDT applications, truck owners demand a greater variety of custom colors and advanced product technologies to enable custom designs. Our strong market position and growth are driven by our ability to provide customers with our market-leading brand, Imron, as well as leveraging our global product lines, regional knowledge and service. Additionally, to capture further growth we are launching a new suite of products to meet our customers&#8217; evolving needs. 

Transportation Coatings Products and Brands 

We develop and supply a complete coatings product line for light vehicle OEMs for the original coating of new vehicles. Products are designed to enhance the styling and appearance of a vehicle&#8217;s exterior while providing protection from the elements, extending the life of the vehicle. Widely recognized in the industry for our advanced and patented technologies, our products not only increase productivity and profitability for OEMs but also produce attractive and durable finishes. Our light vehicle coatings portfolio is one of the broadest in the industry. 

The coatings operation is a critical component of the vehicle assembly process, requiring a high degree of precision and speed. The paint shop process typically includes a dip process, three application zones and three high-temperature ovens that cure each coating layer at temperatures ranging from 320&#176;F to 400&#176;F ( i.e. , "high bake"). Our key products consist of the four main coatings layers: electrocoat, primer, basecoat and clearcoat. 

The coatings process accounts for a majority of the total energy consumed during the vehicle manufacturing process. As a result, we have developed Harmonized Coating Technologies TM , including 3-Wet, Eco-Concept and 2-Wet Monocoat, that help our OEM customers lower costs by reducing energy consumption while increasing productivity. 

OEMs are also increasingly looking to reduce the weight of vehicles in response to increasing vehicle emissions and fuel consumption regulations. As a result, OEMs are constructing vehicle platforms using a variety of new materials in addition to steel and plastic, including aluminum, carbon fiber and other substrates, each of which requires specialized coatings formulations to create a uniform color and finish. We continue to innovate with our OEM customers in driving this trend, as evidenced by use of our coatings on their flagship vehicle platforms. 

We also develop and supply a wide array of coatings systems for a broad range of commercial applications including HDT, bus, rail and ACE. These products simultaneously enhance aesthetic appearance and provide protection from the elements. We meet the demands of commercial vehicle customers with our extensive offering of over 70,000 different colors. In the HDT market, because the metal and composite components are painted simultaneously in an automatic process, most truck OEMs use low bake coatings to ensure that the plastic composite parts on a truck&#8217;s exterior do not deform during the process. Truck owners demand a wide variety of custom colors that are formulated using a combination of on-site mixing machines at the OEM or direct shipments of premixed high volume colors from us. Our commercial vehicle brands include Imron, Imron ExcelPro, Imron Elite, Centari, Rival, Corlar epoxy undercoats and AquaEC. 

Transportation Coatings Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We have full-time technical representatives stationed at OEM facilities around the world. These on-site representatives provide customer support, monitor the painting process and track paint demand at each assembly plant. Monitoring OEM line performance in real-time allows our technical support teams to help improve paint department operating efficiency and provide performance feedback to our formulating chemists and paint manufacturing teams. Our customer technical support representatives also help OEMs manage their physical inventory by forecasting facility coatings demand based on the customer&#8217;s build schedule. 

We sell and ship products directly to light vehicle OEM customers in each of our four regions coordinated via a global point of contact for each customer and assist OEMs with on-site customer support. Located in 13 &#32;countries, our manufacturing facilities provide a local presence that enables us to cultivate strong relationships, gain intimate customer knowledge, provide superior technical support to our key customers and maintain "just-in-time" product delivery capabilities critical to OEMs. Our local presence also allows us to quickly react to changing local dynamics, offer high-quality products and provide excellent customer service. 

In the commercial vehicle end-market, we employ a dedicated sales and technical service team to support our diverse customer base, including a direct sales force supporting the HDT market. We ship our coatings directly to commercial vehicle OEMs and provide on-site technical service representatives that play an important role by helping optimize the painting process and by providing responsive customer support. 

Transportation Coatings Customers 

We provide our products to light and commercial vehicle customers at over 200 &#32;assembly plants worldwide, including nine of the top ten global automotive manufacturers. We have a stable customer base with several relationships dating back approximately 90 years and believe we are well positioned with the fastest growing OEMs in both the developed and emerging markets. 

Transportation Coatings Competition 

We primarily compete against large multi-national suppliers such as PPG and BASF in the light and commercial vehicle end-markets. Additionally, we compete against certain regional players in Asia Pacific. With our state-of-the-art coatings solutions and local presence in key OEM markets, we are one of the few competitors in the industry that offers global manufacturers the combination of high-quality products, personalized, top-rate technical service and short lead-times for product delivery. 

KEY RAW MATERIALS 

We use thousands of different raw materials, which fall into six broad categories: resins, pigments, solvents, monomers, isocyanates and additives. Our total raw material spend represents between 45% and 55% of our cost of sales. We purchase raw materials from a diverse group of suppliers, with our top ten suppliers representing approximately 33% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;spending on raw materials. 

Approximately 70% &#32;of the raw materials we procure are derived from crude oil and natural gas. While prices for these raw materials fluctuate with energy prices, such fluctuations are mitigated by the fact that the majority of our raw materials are fourth to sixth generation derivatives of crude oil and natural gas. As a result, changes in the prices of our raw materials typically lag behind fluctuations in crude oil prices. Moreover, the dynamics of supply and demand play as important a role in our cost of raw materials as does the price of crude oil. Finally, non-petrochemical based inputs such as minerals that are used to manufacture coating pigments are not significantly affected by volatility in crude oil prices. 

Historically, to manage raw material volatility, we have used a combination of price increases to customers and, in limited circumstances, contractual raw material recovery mechanisms. Since 2001, our and our legacy company&#8217;s variable cost of sales have remained stable between 37% &#32;and 42% &#32;of net sales. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our focus on technology has allowed us to proactively provide customers with next-generation offerings that enhance productivity and satisfy increasingly strict environmental regulations. Since our entry into the coatings industry 150 &#32;years ago, we believe we have consistently been at the forefront of coatings technology innovation. These innovations have played a fundamental role in our ability to maintain and grow our global market share as well as deliver substantial financial returns. 

We believe that we are a technology leader well positioned to benefit from a continued industry shift to more productive, environmentally responsible products. Our technology development is led by a highly experienced and educated workforce that is focused on new product development, color development, technical customer support and improving our manufacturing processes. As such, our technology development covers two critical interrelated aspects for us, Research &#38; Development as well as Technical Support &#38; Development. In total, as of December 31, 2015 , we have approximately 1,300 &#32;employees dedicated to technology development. For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our research and development expenses were $51.6 million &#32;and $49.5 million , respectively. We operate four &#32;technology centers throughout the world where we develop and align our technology investments with regional business needs. 

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a portfolio of 613 &#32;issued patents and more than 280 &#32;trademarks. We actively apply for and obtain U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks on new products and process innovations and as of December 31, 2015 , 246 &#32;patent applications were pending throughout the world. 

Our primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of our research for use in operations and licensing. We are also party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. We have a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, as described below. 

We own or otherwise have rights to the trademarks, service marks, copyrights and trade names used in conjunction with the marketing and sale of our products and services. These trademarks include Abcite &#174;, &#32;Alesta &#174; , AquaEC &#174; , Audurra TM , Centari &#174; , Challenger TM , Chemophan TM , &#32; Colornet &#174; , Corlar &#174; , Cromax &#174; , Cromax Mosaic &#174; , Duxone TM , Harmonized Coating Technologies TM , Imron &#174; , Imron Elite TM , Imron ExcelPro TM , Lutophen TM , Nap-Gard &#174; , Nason &#174; , Rival &#174; , Spies Hecker &#174; , Standox &#174; , Stollaquid TM , Syntopal TM , Syrox TM , Vermeera&#8482; and Voltatex &#174;, &#32;which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are the property of us and our subsidiaries. 

Although we consider that our patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, we do not regard our business as being materially dependent on any single or group of related patents, licenses or trademarks. 

JOINT VENTURES 

We are party to 11 &#32;joint ventures, five &#32;of which are focused on the industrial end-market. We are the majority shareholder, exercise control and fully consolidate all but three of our joint ventures. Our fully consolidated joint venture-related net sales were $204.5 million &#32;and $218.4 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to our Business&#8212;Risks Related to Other Aspects of our Business&#8212;Our joint ventures may not operate according to our business strategy if our joint venture partners fail to fulfill their obligations." 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 12,800 &#32;employees located throughout the world consisting of sales, technical, manufacturing operations, supply chain and customer service personnel. This figure does not include joint venture employees and contractors. 

As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 64% &#32;of our employees globally were covered by organized labor agreements, including works councils, with fewer than 50 &#32;employees in the United States covered by organized labor agreements. We consider our employee relations to be excellent. 

HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 

We are subject to various laws and regulations around the world governing the protection of the environment and health and safety, including the discharge of pollutants to air and water and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. We have an excellent safety record. Our enhanced focus on health, safety and environmental improvements has resulted in a 68% &#32;reduction in our Total Recordable Safety Incident rate from year-end 2003 to year-end 2015 , which is nine times better than the 2014 U.S. chemical manufacturing industry average (0.25 versus the 2014 U.S. chemical manufacturing industry average of 2.3), according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

We believe that all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are operated in compliance in all material respects, with existing environmental requirements, including the operating permits required thereunder at our facilities. Our global manufacturing facilities have an established management system for environmental stewardship and certified under ISO14001. 

In addition, many of our manufacturing sites have a long history of industrial operations and cleanup is or may be required at a number of these locations. Although we are indemnified by DuPont for certain environmental liabilities and we do not expect outstanding cleanup obligations to have a material impact on our financial position, the ultimate cost of cleanup is subject to a number of variables and difficult to accurately predict. We may also incur significant additional costs as a result of contamination that is discovered and/or cleanup obligations that are imposed at these or other properties in the future. 

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION 

Our website address is www.axaltacs.com. We post, and shareholders may access without charge, our recent filings and any amendments thereto of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We also post all financial press releases, including earnings releases, to our website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC on the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov, including current reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on our website. Reference to our and the SEC&#8217;s websites herein do not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K. 

