 Item 1. 

Business 

($ in millions, except per-share data and as indicated) 

Overview 

Acuity Brands, Inc. (&#8220;Acuity Brands&#8221;) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (&#8220;ABL&#8221;) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company&#8221;), and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company is one of the world&#8217;s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company&#8217;s lighting and building management solutions vary from individual devices to intelligent network systems. Individual devices include luminaires, lighting controls, lighting components, controllers for various building systems (including HVAC, lighting, shades and access control), power supplies, and prismatic skylights. Among other benefits, intelligent network systems can optimize energy efficiency and comfort as well as enhance the occupant experience for various indoor and outdoor applications, all the while reducing operating costs. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the &#8220;Internet of Things&#8221; ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. 

As a results-driven, customer-centric company, management continues to align the unique capabilities and resources of the organization to drive profitable growth by providing comprehensive, differentiated, and integrated lighting and building management solutions for customers, driving world-class cost efficiency, and leveraging a culture of operational excellence through continuous improvement. 

Lighting and building management solutions vary significantly in terms of functionality and performance and are selected based on a customer's specification, including the aesthetic desires and performance requirements for a given application. The Company&#8217;s lighting and building management solutions are marketed under numerous brand names, including but not limited to Lithonia Lighting&#174;, Holophane&#174;, Peerless&#174;, Gotham&#174;, Mark Architectural Lighting&#8482;, Winona&#174; Lighting, Juno&#174;, Indy&#8482;, AccuLite&#174;, Aculux&#8482;, Healthcare Lighting&#174;, Hydrel&#174;, American Electric Lighting&#174;, Carandini&#174;, Antique Street Lamps&#8482;, Sunoptics&#174;, RELOC&#174; Wiring Solutions, eldoLED&#174;, Distech Controls&#174;, and Acuity Controls&#8482;. As of August 31, 2016 , the Company manufactures products in 17 &#32;facilities in North America and three &#32;facilities in Europe. 

Principal customers include electrical distributors, system integrators, retail home improvement centers, electric utilities, lighting showrooms, national accounts, and energy service companies located in North America and select international markets serving new construction, renovation, and maintenance and repair applications. In North America, the Company&#8217;s lighting and building management solutions are sold primarily by independent sales agents, electrical distributors, system integrators, and sales representatives who cover specific geographic areas and market channels. Products are delivered directly or through a network of distribution centers, regional warehouses, and commercial warehouses using both common carriers and a company-managed truck fleet. To serve international customers, the sales forces utilize a variety of distribution methods to meet specific individual customer or country requirements. In fiscal 2016 , sales originated in North America accounted for approximately 96% &#32;of net sales. See the Supplemental Disaggregated Information &#32;footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements &#32;for more information concerning the domestic and international net sales of the Company. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international lighting and building management markets. 

Industry Overview 

Based on industry sources and government information, the Company estimates that in fiscal 2016 &#32;the size of the North American lighting and building management solutions market served by the Company (also referred to herein as &#8220;addressable market&#8221;) was approximately $19 billion &#32;and includes non-portable luminaires (as defined by the National Electrical Manufacturers Association), poles for outdoor lighting, emergency lighting fixtures, daylighting, lighting controls, as well as building management controllers and systems. This market estimate is based on a combination of external industry data and internal estimates, and excludes portable and vehicular lighting fixtures and certain related lighting components, such as lighting ballasts and most lamps. A source of demand for the lighting and building management industry is attributed to the renovation and retrofit of less efficient lighting and building management systems. While the precise size of the North American market is not known, the Company estimates the potential size of the installed base of lighting and building management solutions to be well in excess of $500 billion . 

The Company operates in a highly competitive industry that is affected by volatility from a number of general business and economic factors, such as gross domestic product growth, employment levels, credit availability, energy costs, and commodity costs. The Company&#8217;s market is based on residential and non-residential construction, both 

new and renovation and retrofit activity, which is sensitive to the volatility of these general economic factors. The Company is not aware of any data that accurately quantifies the split of the non-residential lighting market between new construction and renovation and retrofit activity; however, recent trends developed from industry sources and Company estimates suggest that renovation and retrofit activity represents a growing proportion of the total non-residential lighting market. Construction spending on infrastructure projects such as highways, streets, and urban developments has a material impact on the demand for the Company&#8217;s infrastructure-focused lighting and building management solutions. Demand for the Company&#8217;s lighting and building management solutions sold through certain retail channels is highly dependent on economic drivers, such as consumer spending and discretionary income, along with housing construction and home improvement spending. 

The residential and non-residential market is influenced by: the development of new lighting technologies, including solid-state lighting, electronic drivers, embedded lighting controls, and more effective optical designs and lamps; federal, state, and local requirements for updated energy codes; incentives by federal, state, and local municipal authorities, as well as utility companies, for using more energy-efficient lighting and building management solutions; and design technologies addressing sustainability and facilitating smarter buildings and cities. The Company is a leading provider of integrated lighting and building management solutions based on these technologies and utilizes internally developed, licensed, or acquired intellectual property. Solid-state lighting and digital building management systems provide the opportunity for lighting and building management systems to be integrated in a manner resulting in the optimal platform for enabling the IoT that collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics and other features. The industry&#8217;s addressable market is likely to meaningfully expand due to the benefits and value creation provided by intelligent networked lighting and building management systems. New entrants, including both well-established as well as new software and technology companies, therefore continue to develop capabilities and solutions that are both complementary as well as competitive to those of traditional industry participants. 

Products and Solutions 

The Company offers a broad portfolio of indoor and outdoor lighting and building management solutions for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications. The portfolio of lighting solutions includes lighting products utilizing fluorescent, light emitting diode ("LED"), organic LED ("OLED"), high intensity discharge, metal halide, and incandescent light sources to illuminate an extensive number of applications as well as standalone and embedded lighting control solutions from simple to sophisticated, wired and wireless. Lighting and controls products and solutions include the following: recessed, surface, and suspended lighting; downlighting; decorative lighting; emergency and exit lighting; track lighting; daylighting; special-use lighting; street and roadway lighting; parking garage lighting; underwater lighting; area pedestrian, flood, and decorative site lighting; landscape lighting; occupancy sensors; photocontrols; relay panels; architectural dimming panels; and integrated lighting controls systems. Building management solutions include products and solutions for controlling HVAC, lighting, shades, and access control that deliver end to end optimization of those building systems. The Company's lighting and building management solutions are designed to enhance the occupant experience, improve the quality of the visual environment, and provide seamless operational energy efficiency and cost reductions, as well as increased digital functionality due to a unique capability to collect vast amounts of data that can better enable the IoT for building owners. 

The solutions portfolio of the Company also includes modular wiring, LED drivers, sensors, glass, and inverters sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, the Company provides services across applications that primarily relate to monitoring and controlling lighting and building management systems through network technologies and the commissioning of control systems. 

Sales of lighting and building management solutions, excluding services, accounted for approximately 99% &#32;of total consolidated net sales for the Company in fiscal 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 . 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales. The Company sells lighting and building management solutions to customers in the North American market utilizing numerous sales forces, including internal direct salespeople and independent sales agencies, based on the channel and geography served. The Company also operates separate European sales forces, including independent international sales agencies and system integrators, and an international sales group coordinating export sales outside of North America and Europe. 

Marketing. The Company markets its portfolio and service capabilities to end users in multiple channels through a broad spectrum of marketing and promotional methods, including direct customer contact, trade shows, on-site training, print advertising in industry publications, product brochures and other literature, as well as the internet and 

social media. The Company operates training and display facilities in several locations throughout North America and Europe designed to enhance the lighting knowledge of customers and industry professionals. 

Customers 

Customers of the Company include electrical distributors, system integrators, retail home improvement centers, electric utilities, utility distributors, national accounts, value-added resellers, government entities and municipalities, lighting showrooms, OEMs, and energy service companies. In addition, there are a variety of other professionals who can represent a significant influence in the product specification process for any given project. These generally include building owners, federal, state, and local governments, contractors, engineers, architects, and lighting designers. 

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal 2016 . A single customer of the Company, The Home Depot, accounted for approximately 11% &#32;and 12% &#32;of net sales in fiscal 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. These sales include products for resale as well as for lighting its facilities. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

The Company operates 20 &#32;manufacturing facilities, including nine &#32;facilities in the United States, six &#32;facilities in Mexico, three &#32;facilities in Europe, and two &#32;in Canada. The Company utilizes a blend of internal and outsourced manufacturing processes and capabilities to fulfill a variety of customer needs in the most cost-effective manner. Certain critical processes, such as reflector forming and anodizing, high-end glass production, surface mount circuit board production, and assembly are performed (not exclusively) at company-operated facilities, offering the ability to differentiate products through superior capabilities. Other components, such as lamps, LEDs, certain LED light engines, sockets, and ballasts are purchased primarily from third-party vendors. The Company&#8217;s investment in its production facilities is focused primarily on improving capabilities, product quality, and manufacturing efficiency as well as environmental, health, and safety compliance. The Company also utilizes contract manufacturing from U.S., Asian, and European sources for certain products. Of total finished goods manufactured and purchased in fiscal 2016 , the Company&#8217;s U.S. operations produced approximately 22% , its Mexican operations produced approximately 57% , its European operations produced approximately 3% , and finished product manufactured by others accounted for approximately 18% . 

Lighting and building management solutions are delivered directly from manufacturing facilities or through a network of strategically located distribution centers, regional warehouses, and commercial warehouses in North America using both common carriers and a company-managed truck fleet. For international customers, distribution methods are adapted to meet individual customer or country requirements. 

Research and Development 

Research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) is defined as the critical investigation aimed at discovery of new knowledge and the conversion of that knowledge into the design of a new product or significant improvement to an existing product. The Company invests in the development of new products and solutions as well as the enhancement of existing offerings with a focus on improving the performance-to-cost ratio and energy efficiency. The Company also develops software applications and capabilities to enhance data analytics offerings. R&#38;D expenses consist of compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, materials, supplies, and other administrative costs, but do not include all new product development costs. For fiscal 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , research and development expense totaled $47.1 , $41.1 , and $35.3 , respectively. 

Competition 

The Company experiences competition based on numerous factors, including features and benefits, brand name recognition, product quality, product and system design, energy efficiency, customer relationships, service capabilities, and price. The market for lighting and building management solutions and services is competitive and continues to evolve. Certain global and more diversified electrical manufacturers may provide a broader product offering utilizing electrical, lighting, and building management products as well as pricing benefits from the bundling of various offerings. In addition, there have been a growing number of new competitors, from small startup companies to global electronics and software companies, offering new technologies. 

Environmental Regulation 

The operations of the Company are subject to numerous comprehensive laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, transportation, and disposal of hazardous substances, as well as solid and hazardous wastes, and to the remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, permits and environmental controls are required for certain of the Company&#8217;s operations to limit air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation by issuing authorities. On an ongoing basis, the Company allocates resources, including investments in capital and operating costs relating to environmental compliance. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become stricter in recent years, and federal, state, and local governments domestically and internationally are considering new laws and regulations, including those governing raw material composition, air emissions, end-of-life product dispositions, and energy efficiency. The Company is not aware of any pending legislation or proposed regulation related to environmental issues that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The cost of responding to future changes, however, may be substantial. 

Raw Materials 

The products produced by the Company require certain raw materials, including certain grades of steel and aluminum, electrical and electronic components, plastics, and other petroleum-based materials and components. In fiscal 2016 , the Company purchased approximately 100,000 &#32;tons of steel and aluminum. The Company estimates that approximately 8% &#32;of purchased raw materials are petroleum-based. Additionally, the Company estimates that approximately five million &#32;gallons of diesel fuel were consumed in fiscal 2016 &#32;through the Company&#8217;s distribution activities. The Company purchases most raw materials and other components on the open market and relies on third parties for providing certain finished goods. While these items are generally available from multiple sources, the cost of products sold may be affected by changes in the market price of raw materials, as well as disruptions in availability of raw materials, components, and sourced finished goods. 

The Company does not currently engage in or expect to engage in significant commodity hedging transactions for raw materials, though the Company has and will continue to commit to purchase certain materials for a period of up to 12 months. Significant increases in the prices of the Company&#8217;s products due to increases in the cost of raw materials and components could have a negative effect on demand for products and on profitability. While the Company has generally been able to pass along these increases in cost in the form of higher selling prices for its products, there can be no assurance that future disruptions in either supply or price of these materials will not negatively affect future results. 

The Company monitors and investigates alternative suppliers and materials based on numerous attributes including quality, service, and price. The Company currently sources raw materials and components from a number of suppliers, but the Company&#8217;s ongoing efforts to improve the cost effectiveness of its products and services may result in a reduction in the number of its suppliers. A reduction in the number of suppliers could cause increased risk associated with reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, component parts (such as LEDs, lamps, ballasts, and power supplies), and finished goods. 

Backlog Orders 

The Company produces and stocks quantities of inventory at key distribution centers and warehouses throughout North America and to a much lesser degree, certain European markets. The backlog of orders at any given time is affected by various factors, including seasonality, cancellations, sales promotions, production cycle times, and the timing of receipt and shipment of orders, which are usually shipped within a few weeks of order receipt. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of future shipments. 

Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks 

The Company owns or has licenses to use various domestic and foreign patents and trademarks related to its products, processes, and businesses. These intellectual property rights are important factors for its businesses. To protect these proprietary rights, the Company relies on copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws. Despite these protections, unauthorized parties may attempt to infringe on the intellectual property of the Company. While patents and patent applications in the aggregate are important to the competitive position of the Company, no single patent or patent application is individually material to the Company. 

Seasonality and Cyclicality 

The Company&#8217;s business exhibits some seasonality, with net sales being affected by the impact of weather and seasonal demand on construction and installation programs, particularly during the winter months, as well as the annual budget cycles of major customers. Because of these seasonal factors, the Company has experienced, and generally expects to experience, its highest sales in the last two quarters of each fiscal year. 

The Company's lighting and building management solutions are sold to customers in both the new construction and renovation and retrofit markets for residential and non-residential applications. The construction market is cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions. Sales volume has a major impact on the profitability of the Company. Economic downturns and the potential decline in key construction markets may have a material adverse effect on the net sales and operating income of the Company. 

International Operations 

The Company manufactures and assembles products at numerous facilities, some of which are located outside the United States. Approximately 73% &#32;of the products produced by the Company are manufactured outside the United States, primarily in Mexico and Europe. In addition, the Company sources certain finished goods from third parties with operations outside the United States, primarily in Asia. 

Of the products produced by the Company, approximately 70% &#32;are manufactured at six &#32;facilities in Mexico. These facilities are authorized to operate as Maquiladoras by the Ministry of Economy of Mexico. Maquiladora status allows the Company to import certain items from the United States into Mexico duty-free, provided that such items, after processing, are exported from Mexico within a stipulated time frame. Maquiladora status, which is renewed periodically, is subject to various restrictions and requirements, including compliance with the terms of the Maquiladora program and other local regulations, which have become stricter in recent years. 

During fiscal 2016 , net sales initiated outside of the U.S. represented approximately 11% &#32;of total net sales. See the Supplemental Disaggregated Information &#32;footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements &#32;for additional information regarding the geographic distribution of net sales, operating profit, and long-lived assets. 

Information Concerning Acuity Brands 

The Company makes its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K (and all amendments to these reports) and proxy statements, together with all reports filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by the Company&#8217;s officers, directors, and beneficial owners of 10% or more of the Company&#8217;s common stock, available free of charge through the &#8220;SEC Filings&#8221; link on the Company&#8217;s website, located at www.acuitybrands.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information included on the Company&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company&#8217;s reports are also available at the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or on their website at www.sec.gov . You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

Additionally, the Company has adopted a written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to all of the Company&#8217;s directors, officers, and employees, including its principal executive officer and senior financial officers. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the Company&#8217;s Corporate Governance Guidelines are available free of charge through the &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; link on the Company&#8217;s website. Any amendments to, or waivers of, the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for our principal executive officer and senior financial officers will be disclosed on our website promptly following the date of such amendment or waiver. Additionally, the Statement of Responsibilities of Committees of the Board and the Statement of Rules and Procedures of Committees of the Board, which contain the charters for the Company&#8217;s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Governance Committee, and the rules and procedures relating thereto, are available free of charge through the &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; link on the Company&#8217;s website. Each of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Statement of Responsibilities of Committees of the Board, and the Statement of Rules and Procedures of Committees of the Board is available in print to any stockholder of the Company that requests such document by contacting the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations department. 

Employees 

As of August 31, 2016 , the Company employed approximately 11,800 associates, of which approximately 4,300 &#32;were employed in the United States, approximately 7,000 &#32;in Mexico, and approximately 500 &#32;in other international locations, including Europe, Canada, and the Asia/Pacific region. Union recognition and collective bargaining 

arrangements are in place or in process, covering approximately 8,600 persons (including approximately 2,000 &#32;in the United States). Union recognition and collective bargaining arrangements covering approximately 8,100 &#32;persons will expire within the next fiscal year. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with both its unionized and non-unionized employees. 

