 Item 1. Business 

AZZ Inc. (&#8220;AZZ&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, "our" or &#8220;we&#8221;) was established in 1956 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Texas. We are a global provider of galvanizing services, welding solutions, specialty electrical equipment and highly engineered services to the power generation, transmission, distribution, refining and industrial markets. We operate in two segments; Energy and Galvanizing. AZZ Galvanizing is a leading provider of metal finishing solutions for corrosion protection, including hot dip galvanizing to the North American steel fabrication industry. AZZ Energy is dedicated to delivering safe and reliable transmission of power from generation sources to end customers, and automated weld overlay solutions for corrosion and erosion mitigation to critical infrastructure in the energy markets worldwide. 

Energy Segment 

AZZ's Energy Segment is a leading provider of specialized products and services designed to support industrial, nuclear and electrical applications. Our product offerings include custom switchgear, electrical enclosures, medium and high voltage bus ducts, explosion proof and hazardous duty lighting, nuclear safety-related equipment and tubular products. In addition to our product offerings, AZZ's Energy Segment focuses on extension of life cycle for the power generation, refining and industrial infrastructure, through automated weld overlay solutions for corrosion and erosion mitigation. The markets for our Energy Segment are highly competitive and consist of large multi-national companies, along with numerous small independent companies. Competition is based primarily on product quality, range of product line, price and service. While some of our competitors are much larger than us, our Energy Segment offers some of the most technologically advanced solutions and engineering resources developed from a legacy of proven, reliable product options, allowing AZZ Energy to be ideally positioned to meet the most challenging application-specific demands. 

Copper, aluminum, steel and nickel based alloys are the primary raw materials used by this segment. We do not foresee any availability issues for these materials. We do not contractually commit to minimum volumes and increases in price for these items are normally managed through escalation clauses to the customer&#8217;s contracts, which the customers may not accept. In addition, we seek to get firm pricing contracts from our vendors on these materials at the time we receive orders from our customers in order to minimize risk. 

We sell Energy Segment products through manufacturers&#8217; representatives, distributors, agents and our internal sales force. We are not dependent on any single customer for this segment, and the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenues or net income. 

On March 29, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Aquilex Specialty Repair and Overhaul LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (&#8220;Aquilex SRO&#8221;). Aquilex SRO provides the energy industry with specialty repair and overhaul solutions designed to 

improve mechanical integrity and extend component life for critical equipment. This acquisition was part of our strategy to expand our offerings in the Energy Segment and to enhance our international footprint in the power generation and refining markets. Aquilex SRO is a market leader in weld overlay services for corrosion and erosion mitigation in power generation and refining facilities worldwide. 

The acquisition of Aquilex SRO allows AZZ to participate in the extension of life cycle for power generation, refining and petrochemical infrastructure globally. Prior to this acquisition, our business was primarily driven by new construction projects in power generation, transmission, distribution and industrial markets. The addition of Aquilex SRO in 2013 has successfully transformed the segment to be a service provider that focuses on safety, reliability and life extension for critical equipment in the energy markets. Following this acquisition, the customer base for the segment has become more global and diversified, while offering a balanced mix of products and services. For additional information on recent acquisitions, please refer to Note 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For additional information regarding the Energy Segment's backlog and operating results, see Results of Operations within Item 7. For additional financial information by segment, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Galvanizing Segment 

The Galvanizing Segment provides hot dip galvanizing to the steel fabrication industry through facilities located throughout the United States and Canada. Hot dip galvanizing is a metallurgical process in which molten zinc is applied to steel. The zinc alloying renders corrosion protection to fabricated steel for extended periods of up to 50 years. As of February 29, 2016 , we operated forty-three galvanizing plants, which are located in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Indiana, Illinois, Louisiana, Kentucky, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia in the United States and Ontario, Quebec and Nova Scotia, Canada. 

Galvanizing is a highly competitive business, and we compete with other galvanizing companies, captive galvanizing facilities operated by manufacturers, and alternate forms of corrosion protection such as material selection (stainless steel or aluminum) or barrier protections such as powder coating, paint, and weathering steel. Our galvanizing markets are generally limited to areas within relatively close proximity to our galvanizing plants due to freight cost. 

Zinc, the principal raw material used in the galvanizing process, is currently readily available, but is subject to volatile pricing. We manage our exposure to commodity pricing of zinc by utilizing agreements with zinc suppliers that include fixed costs contracts to guard against escalating commodity prices. We also secure firm pricing for natural gas supplies with individual utilities when possible. We may or may not continue to use these or other strategies to manage risk in the future. 

We typically serve fabricators or manufacturers that provide services to the electrical and telecommunications, bridge and highway, petrochemical and general industrial markets, and numerous original equipment manufacturers. We do not depend on any single customer for a significant amount of our sales, and the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenues or net income. 

On February 1, 2016, we completed the acquisition of substantially all the assets of Alpha Galvanizing Inc., an Atkinson, Nebraska-based business unit of Olson Industries, Inc. Alpha Galvanizing has served steel fabrication customers that manufacture electrical utility poles, agricultural machinery and industrial manufacturing components since 1996. Alpha Galvanizing was acquired to expand the footprint of AZZ Galvanizing and to support AZZ&#8217;s locations in Minnesota and Denver, Colorado, as well as serve customers in the upper Midwest region. 

On June 5, 2015, we completed the acquisition of substantially all the assets of US Galvanizing, LLC, a provider of steel corrosion coating services and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Trinity Industries, Inc. ("US Galvanizing"). The acquisition of the US Galvanizing, LLC assets included six galvanizing facilities located in Hurst, Texas; Kennedale, Texas; Big Spring, Texas; San Antonio, Texas; Morgan City, Louisiana; and Kosciusko, Mississippi. Additionally, the transaction included Texas Welded Wire, a secondary business integrated within US Galvanizing's Hurst, Texas facility. US Galvanizing was acquired to expand AZZ&#8217;s Southern locations. 

On June 30, 2014, we completed the acquisition of substantially all the assets of Zalk Steel &#38; Supply Co. (&#8220;Zalk Steel&#8221;), a Minneapolis, Minnesota-based galvanizing company. Zalk Steel was acquired to expand AZZ's existing geographic footprint in the upper Midwest region of the United States. 

For additional information on the Galvanizing Segment's operating results, see Results of Operations within Item 7. For additional financial information by segment, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Employees 

As of February 29, 2016 , the Company employed approximately 3,538 persons consisting of approximately 3,200 in the United States, approximately 194 in Canada, 130 in Europe, and 14 in other countries. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

&#160; 

Name 

Age 

&#160; 

Business Experience of Executive Officers for Past Five Years 

Position or Office with Registrant or Prior Employer 

&#160; 

Held Since 

Thomas E. Ferguson 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Executive Officer, FlexSteel Pipeline Technologies, Inc. 

President, Flow Solutions Group, Flowserve Corp. 

President, Pump Division, Flowserve Corp. 

&#160; 

2013-2013 

2009-2012 

2003-2009 

Paul W. Fehlman 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer 

Vice President, Finance, Engineered Products Division, Flowserve Corp. 

Vice President, Investor Relations and FP&#38;A, Flowserve Corp. 

Vice President, Treasurer, Flowserve Corp. 

&#160; 

2011-2013 

2009-2011 

2004-2009 

Tim E. Pendley 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Galvanizing Segment Vice President Operations, Galvanizing Segment 

&#160; 

2004-2009 

Robert J. Steines 

&#160; 

Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer 

Vice President, Corporate Controller, Great Lakes Dredge and Dock 

Vice President, Finance, Neuromodulation Division St. Jude Medical 

&#160; 

2012-2013 

2006-2011 

Tara D. Mackey 

&#160; 

Chief Legal and Human Resources Officer and Secretary Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Chief Legal Counsel and Corporate Secretary, First Parts, Inc. General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Silverleaf Resorts Inc. VP, Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, SuperMedia LLC 

&#160; 

2014-2015 2013-2014 2011-2013 2008-2011 

Matt V. Emery 

&#160; 

Vice President, Chief Information Officer Senior Director of Information Technologies, Hewlett-Packard 

&#160; 

2013 2004-2013 

Chris M. Bacius 

&#160; 

Vice President, Corporate Development 

Vice President Mergers &#38; Acquisition, Flowserve Corporation 

Vice President Business Development, Flowserve Corporation 

&#160; 

2012-2014 

2009-2012 

Each executive officer was elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until the next Annual Meeting or until their successor is elected. No executive officer has any family relationships with any other executive officer of the Company. 

Available Information 

AZZ files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The public may read and copy any materials that AZZ files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including AZZ, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that AZZ files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

In addition, we make available, free of charge, on our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may review these documents, under the heading &#8220;Investor Relations,&#8221; subheading &#8220;SEC Filings,&#8221; on our website at 

http://www.azz.com. 

Corporate Governance 

Our Company&#8217;s Board of Directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;), with the assistance of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that set forth the Board&#8217;s policies regarding corporate governance. 

In connection with the Board&#8217;s responsibility to oversee our legal compliance and conduct, the Board has adopted a Code of Conduct, which applies to the Company&#8217;s officers, directors and employees. 

The Board has adopted charters for each of its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may review the Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct and our Committee charters under the Heading &#8220;Investor Relations,&#8221; subheading &#8220;Corporate Governance,&#8221; on our website at: 

&#160; http://www.azz.com 

You may also obtain a copy of these documents by mailing a request to: 

&#160; 

AZZ Inc. 

Investor Relations 

One Museum Place, Suite 500 

3100 West 7th Street 

Fort Worth, TX 76107 

