 Item 1. 

Business. 

Overview 

PayMeOn, Inc. (formerly MMAX Media, Inc.), a Nevada corporation, is a company organized on May 30, 2006, that historically owned and operated products aimed at monetizing consumer influence through social, local and mobile marketing. On July 18, 2014, PayMeOn acquired a 19.4% stake in Prodeco Technologies, LLC, a USA-based researcher, developer, marketer, and manufacturer of quality electric bicycles. In September 2014, we began selling ProdecoTech electric bicycles online through our website www.irideelectric.com, under a non-exclusive dealer agreement. 

In October 2015, we launched a retail store located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. In addition to ProdecoTech electric bicycles, we also sell electric bicycles made by other manufacturers, as well as other alternative transportation products (such as &#147;hoverboards&#148;) and related products and accessories at our retail location. 

In March 2016, we formed a new subsidiary called Paymeon Brands, Inc. Paymeon Brands was formed to develop, market, manage and monetize lifestyle brands and products. The Company intends to leverage its relationships and expertise with manufacturing, wholesale and retail distribution, and social influencer promotion, primarily in youth oriented &#147;lifestyle&#148; markets to create and grow new and existing brands across products. Generally, Paymeon Brands intends to acquire exclusive licensing rights to brands it believes are expandable to additional product lines. In addition, Paymeon Brands may develop or acquire its own products, which are not yet known &#147;brands&#148;, but that it believes are in substantial growth markets and can become &#147;lifestyle&#148; oriented brands. 

Prior to 2012, we offered mobile marketing platform services to merchants under the &#147;Hyperlocal&#148; name. The Hyperlocal platform supports multiple text messaging services such as WAP, MMS and XHTML, which run on a commercial grade mobile marketing platform and operates with all major mobile carriers, including AT&#38;T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon. The fully-integrated interface allows for web-based monitoring of customers. It provides access to real-time statistics for each customer&#146;s account, including but not limited to incoming and outgoing messages, number of keywords, credits and account status. 

In early 2012, we incorporated the Hyperlocal platform into a new product offering called the PayMeOn Merchant Profit Center. The PayMeOn Merchant Profit Center is aimed at small and medium sized businesses and incorporates the purchase, referral and &#147;coupon style&#148; daily deal components of our consumer based PayMeOn product, as well as all of the mobile marketing components of the Hyperlocal Platform. During 2015, we discontinued marketing the PayMeOn Merchant Profit Center and are no longer actively marketing stand-alone social, local and mobile products. Instead we have chosen to focus all of our social, local and mobile efforts around monetizing consumer influence under our &#147;social income&#148; trademark. We intend on leveraging the trademark in all parts of our active businesses in the future.

Organization 

PayMeOn holds a wholly owned interest in HLM Paymeon, Inc. and Paymeon Brands, Inc., both Florida corporations. There is currently a limited public market for our common stock which is quoted on the OTC Markets under the symbol &#147;PAYM&#148;. Our executive offices are located at 2599 North Federal Highway, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33305. Our telephone number is (800) 831-4743. We own and operate several websites, including www.paymeon.com and www.irideelectric.com . The information which appears on these websites is not part of this report.

Light Electric Vehicle Sales 

We are engaged in the sale of electric bicycles, hoverboards and other related products and accessories, at our website, www.irideelectric.com and at our retail location located at 2599 North Federal Highway, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. We intend to grow our efforts in the area of alternative personal transportation products, such as electric bicycles and other related products and accessories, including adding sales of products other than electric bicycles such as hoverboards, the sales of parts and accessories, sales of service and sales of related apparel. Our retail location is open six days a week, generally from the hours of 10 am to 7 pm.

&#160;

On July 18, 2014, the Company entered into and completed two membership interest purchase agreements to acquire a 19.4% equity interest in Prodeco Technologies, LLC, a private manufacturer of electric bicycles under the brand &#147;ProdecoTech&#148; with manufacturing facilities located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The Prodeco Technologies membership interests were acquired through the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding membership interests of A Better Bike, LLC and EBikes, LLC, members of Prodeco Technologies, LLC. A Better Bike, LLC was owned by Vincent L. Celentano, the Company's largest individual shareholder and a member of our board of directors. EBikes was owned by Vincent D. Celentano, II. Under a non-exclusive dealer agreement we currently distribute ProdecoTech bicycles. We buy ProdecoTech bicycles on an arms-length basis from ProdecoTech for the standard wholesale prices they offer to dealers and sell them to retail customers generally at the Manufacturer&#146;s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP). The agreement may be terminated by either party without cause upon 30 day notice. We maintain similar dealer agreements with approximately seven other electric bicycle manufacturers. As we do with ProdecoTech, we purchase electric bicycles (and other products) from these manufacturers at wholesale prices and sell them to retail customers generally at the Manufacturer&#146;s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP).

Although we own a minority interest in ProdecoTech, we do not manufacture or design any products. We purchase our products from approximately seven to ten manufacturers and distributors, and we have no long-term purchase commitments. During fiscal 2014, four customers, represented approximately 100% of our product purchases. No customer represented 10% or more of our fiscal 2015 product purchases. We do not have long-term purchase contracts with any of our customers and all of our purchases from vendors are done on a short-term purchase order basis.

Social Income&#174; 

We intend to capitalize on our Social Income&#174; trademark by creating opportunities to &#147;monetize&#148; the substantial influence consumers exert through their networks. We are dedicated to growing and leveraging our own social media following, as well as extending our social media reach through partnerships with well-known influencers. We intend to aggregate social audiences across platforms to form a substantial &#147;network&#148; of potential buyers/influencers for our products. We will use our network to instantly garner feedback for new product launches, as well as direct-sell many types of products. We also intend to use our network to continuously promote the lifestyle aspects of our brands, resulting in even more promotion by our audience to others outside of our audience. 

We expect that our Social Income&#174; based products will be available both over the web and through mobile devices. The primary aim of the products will be to allow consumers and merchants to browse, offer, and promote products and services, and most importantly, share them in exchange for social income&#174;payments (which may be in the form of cash, points, additional savings, etc.). 

Social income&#174; is a registered trademark of PayMeOn. We define social income&#174; as income or benefits derived from referring or recommending products or services to people in your network(s). The fundamental driver of PayMeOn&#146;s products is the opportunity for users to earn rewards through their referrals. Many products and services are sold over the Internet today through recommendations or referrals. Social networks have allowed users to connect seamlessly and have become powerful platforms for friends, family and colleagues to connect, share, and recommend products that are &#147;imbedded&#148; in the networking experience. We believe that users should be rewarded for their successful referrals. We call these rewards social income&#174;. We believe that the ubiquitous adoption of mobile phones has created portable and &#147;real time&#148; social networks that can be monetized.

Competition 

The Social and lifestyle -based marketing industry is a new, fragmented and competitive industry. Furthermore, the marketing industry in general is a large and competitive. In the United States and throughout the world, the marketing industry has a diverse set of channels, including direct mail, tele-marketing, television, radio, newspaper, magazines and the recently developed mobile and web-based markets. The list of market leaders fluctuates constantly. Many competitors are large and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than our company.

The light electric vehicle retail market, which includes electric bicycles and hover boards, is new and evolving in the United States. We will compete with large, established marketers of light electric vehicles and traditional bicycles and similar products. We also complete with online retailers, such as Amazon.com. In addition, we also compete with lesser-known distributors of electric bicycles and other products sourced primarily outside of the United States. 

&#160;

Intellectual Property 

The term social income&#174; is a registered trademark of PayMeOn, Inc. We have not applied for any other U.S. trademarks and, except for common law rights, we currently do not hold any other intellectual property rights on the products we have developed. Among many other related domain names, we have secured the following domain names: www.irideelectric.com; paymeon.com; paymeon.net; paymeon.tv; paymeon.org; paymeon.biz; paymeon.mobi; paymeon.co; paymeon.tel; paymeon.us; paymeonbrands.com; paymeonbrands.net; paymeonbrands.org; hyperloc.com; Hyperlocalmarketing.net; Hlmllc.com; and Hlmllc.net.

Governmental Regulation 

Our potential mobile and e-commerce products are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. In the United States and abroad, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties are currently being tested by a number of claims. These regulations and laws may involve taxation, tariffs, subscriber privacy, data protection, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the internet as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the internet or e-commerce. In addition, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our websites or may even attempt to completely block access to our websites. Accordingly, adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our business. The CARD Act, as well as the laws of most states, contain provisions governing product terms and conditions of gift cards, gift certificates, stored value or pre-paid cards or coupons (&#147;gift cards&#148;), such as provisions prohibiting or limiting the use of expiration dates on gift cards or the amount of fees charged in connection with gift cards or requiring specific disclosures on or in connection with gift cards. PayMeOn coupon, gift card, stored value or prepaid card offers generally are included within the definition of &#147;gift cards&#148; in many of these laws. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions have laws that govern disclosure and certain product terms and conditions, including restrictions on expiration dates and fees that may apply to PayMeOn offers. However, the CARD Act as well as a number of states and certain foreign jurisdictions also have exemptions from the operation of these provisions or otherwise modify the application of these provisions applicable to gift cards that are issued as part of a promotion or promotional program. If PayMeOn offers are subject to the CARD Act, and are not included in the exemption for promotional programs, it is possible that the purchase value, which is the amount equal to the price paid for the offer, or the promotional value, which is the add-on value of the offer in excess of the price paid, or both, may not expire before the later of (i) five years after the date on which the offer was issued or the date on which the customer last loaded funds on the offer if the offer has a reloadable feature; (ii) the offers stated expiration date (if any), unless offers come within an exemption in the CARD Act for promotional programs; or (iii) a later date provided by applicable state law. In addition, regardless of whether an exemption for PayMeOn offers applies under the CARD Act, in those states that prohibit or otherwise restrict expiration dates on gift cards that are defined to include offers and that do not have exemptions that apply to the purchase value or the promotional value, or both, of offers, PayMeOn offers may be required to be honored for the full offer value (the total of purchase value and promotional value) until redeemed. There can be no assurance that as PayMeOn incorporates new requirements as detailed under the CARD Act that merchants will continue to offer PayMeOn offers.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had five full time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, nor governed by any collective bargaining agreements. We consider relations with our labor force as satisfactory. 

