 Item 1. Business. Company Overview 

Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential renal and hospital products, including home, acute and in-center dialysis; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition; biosurgery products and anesthetics; and pharmacy automation, software and services. The company&#146;s global footprint and critical nature of its products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors&#146; offices and by patients at home under physician supervision. As of December 31, 2015, Baxter manufactures products in approximately 25 countries and sells them in approximately 120 countries. 

Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, &#147;Baxter International&#148; means Baxter International Inc. and &#147;Baxter,&#148; the &#147;company&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148; means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries (after giving effect to the separation and distribution of Baxalta Incorporated (Baxalta), as further described below), unless the context otherwise requires. 

Separation of Baxalta 

On July 1, 2015, Baxter completed the distribution of approximately 80.5% of the outstanding common stock of its biopharmaceuticals business, Baxalta, to Baxter stockholders. The distribution was made to Baxter&#146;s stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 17, 2015, who received one share of Baxalta common stock for each Baxter common share held as of such date. The distribution was intended to take the form of a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes in the United States. As a result of the distribution, Baxalta is now an independent public company whose shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#147;BXLT.&#148; 

The local separation of Baxalta&#146;s business in certain countries outside the United States did not occur prior to the distribution date due to regulatory requirements, the need to obtain consents from local governmental authorities and other business reasons. The International Commercial Operations Agreement (ICOA), entered into by Baxter and Baxalta in connection with the separation and distribution on June 30, 2015, provides for the conduct of the Baxalta business by Baxter in such countries until the local separation is completed. The ICOA also governs the process for the local separation of Baxalta&#146;s business following the distribution date. 

On January 27, 2016, Baxter exchanged 37,573,040 of its retained Baxalta shares with the Chase Lincoln First Commercial Corporation, the sole lender under its $1.8 billion revolving credit facility, as described in &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#151; Liquidity and Capital Resources &#151; Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings &#151; Credit Facilities.&#148; This exchange was consummated in connection with the termination of such facility and the extinguishment of all outstanding indebtedness thereunder. 

As a result of the separation, the consolidated statements of income, consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flow, and related financial information reflect Baxalta&#146;s operations, assets and liabilities, and cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the separation of Baxalta. 

Business Segments and Products 

After giving effect to the separation and distribution, the company now operates in two segments: Hospital Products and Renal. 

&#160; 

The Hospital Products business manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, inhalation anesthetics, and biosurgery products. The business also provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, and drug formulation. 

The Renal business provides products and services to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure and acute kidney injuries. The Renal business offers a comprehensive portfolio to meet the needs of patients across the treatment continuum, including technologies and therapies for peritoneal dialysis (PD), in-center hemodialysis (HD), home HD (HHD), continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) and additional dialysis services. 

For financial information about Baxter&#146;s segments and principal product categories, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Sales and Distribution 

The company has its own direct sales force and also makes sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or other alternate site providers. In the United States, third parties such as Cardinal Health, Inc. warehouse and ship a significant portion of the company&#146;s products through their distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales and customer service representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising. 

International sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2015. 

International Operations 

The majority of the company&#146;s revenues are generated outside of the United States and geographic expansion remains a core component of the company&#146;s strategy. Baxter&#146;s international presence includes operations in Europe (including Eastern and Central Europe), the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada. The company is subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States. For more information on these risks, see the information under the captions &#147;Risks Related to Baxter&#146;s Business &#151;We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally&#148; and &#147;&#151; Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity&#148; in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

For financial information about foreign and domestic operations and geographic information, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled &#147;Financial Instrument Market Risk&#148; in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Contractual Arrangements 

Substantial portions of the company&#146;s products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than one year and place limits on the company&#146;s ability to increase prices. In the case of hospitals, governments and other facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products to be purchased by the customer. 

In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of medical products in the United States have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or formed integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing 

&#160; 

arrangements with manufacturers and distributors, and the negotiated prices are made available to members. Baxter has purchasing agreements with several of the major GPOs in the United States. GPOs may have agreements with more than one supplier for certain products. Accordingly, in these cases, Baxter faces competition from other suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under contract with Baxter. Purchasing power is similarly consolidated in many other countries. For example, public contracting authorities act as the purchasing entities for the hospitals and other customers of medical products in their region and many hospitals and other customers have joined joint procurement entities and buying consortia. The result is that demand for healthcare products is increasingly concentrated across the company&#146;s markets globally. 

Raw Materials 

Raw materials essential to Baxter&#146;s business are purchased from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of business. Although most of these materials are generally available, Baxter at times may experience shortages of supply. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials supply, Baxter works closely with its suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. The company also seeks to develop new and alternative sources of supply where beneficial to its overall raw materials procurement strategy. 

The company also utilizes long-term supply contracts with some suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the risk of price increases. Baxter is not always able to recover cost increases for raw materials through customer pricing due to contractual limits and market forces. 

In connection with the separation and distribution, Baxter entered into a long-term manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxalta. Baxalta manufactures and supplies Baxter with ARTISS, TISSEEL, FLOSEAL and stand-alone thrombin under the manufacturing and supply agreement, on a cost-plus basis. 

Competition and Healthcare Cost Containment 

Baxter&#146;s Hospital Products and Renal businesses benefit from a number of competitive advantages, including the breadth and depth of their product offering, as well as strong relationships with customers, including hospitals and clinics, group purchasing organizations, physicians, and patients, many who self-administer the home-based therapies supplied by Baxter. Baxter as a whole benefits from efficiencies and cost advantages resulting from shared manufacturing facilities and the technological advantages of its products. 

Although no single company competes with Baxter in all of its businesses, Baxter faces substantial competition in each of its segments from international and domestic medical products manufacturers and suppliers and pharmaceutical companies. In addition, global and regional competitors continue to expand their manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing channels. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. There has been increasing consolidation in the company&#146;s customer base and by its competitors, which continues to result in pricing and market pressures. 

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies (lists of recommended or approved products), and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of Baxter&#146;s products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payors. In the United States, the federal and many state governments have adopted or proposed initiatives relating to Medicaid and other health programs that may limit reimbursement or increase rebates that Baxter and other providers are required to pay to the state. In addition to government regulation, managed care organizations in the United States, which include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, hospital and physician alliances and pharmacy benefit managers, continue to put pressure on the price and usage of healthcare products. Managed care organizations seek to contain healthcare expenditures, and their purchasing strength has been increasing due to their consolidation into fewer, larger organizations and a growing number of enrolled patients. Baxter faces 

&#160; 

similar issues outside of the United States. In Europe and Latin America, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. 

Intellectual Property 

Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to Baxter&#146;s business. Baxter relies on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to develop, maintain and strengthen its competitive position. Baxter owns a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and has entered into license arrangements relating to various third-party patents and technologies. Products manufactured by Baxter are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade names. Some products distributed by the company are sold under the company&#146;s trade names, while others are sold under trade names owned by its suppliers or partners. Trade secret protection of unpatented confidential and proprietary information is also important to Baxter. The company maintains certain details about its processes, products and technology as trade secrets and generally requires employees, consultants, and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may be breached and Baxter may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, Baxter&#146;s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that Baxter&#146;s employees, consultants, and business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Baxter&#146;s policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis. This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the company. Baxter also recognizes the need to promote the enforcement of its patents and trademarks and takes commercially reasonable steps to enforce its patents and trademarks around the world against potential infringers, including judicial or administrative action where appropriate. 

Baxter operates in an industry susceptible to significant patent litigation. At any given time, the company is involved as either a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Such litigation can result in significant royalty or other payments or result in injunctions that can prevent the sale of products. For more information on patent and other litigation, see Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and Development 

Baxter&#146;s investment in research and development (R&#38;D), consistent with the company&#146;s portfolio optimization and capital allocation strategies, helps fuel its future growth and its ability to remain competitive in each of its business segments. Accordingly, Baxter continues to focus its investment on select R&#38;D programs to enhance future growth through clinical differentiation. Expenditures for Baxter&#146;s R&#38;D activities were $603 million in 2015, $610 million in 2014 and $582 million in 2013. These expenditures include costs associated with R&#38;D activities performed at the company&#146;s R&#38;D centers located around the world, which include facilities in Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Germany, China, Japan and the United States, as well as in-licensing, milestone and reimbursement payments made to partners for R&#38;D work performed at non-Baxter locations. 

For more information on the company&#146;s R&#38;D activities, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled &#147;Strategic Objectives&#148; in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Quality Management 

Baxter&#146;s continued success depends upon the quality of its products. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, facilitating continuous improvement of the company&#146;s processes, products and services, and assuring the safety and efficacy of the company&#146;s products. Baxter has one quality system deployed globally that enables the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of the company&#146;s products to ensure they conform to 

&#160; 

customer requirements. In order to continually improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the quality system, various measurements, monitoring and analysis methods such as management reviews and internal, external and vendor audits are employed at local and central levels. 

Each product that Baxter markets is required to meet specific quality standards, both in packaging and in product integrity and quality. If any of those is determined to be compromised at any time, Baxter endeavors to take corrective and preventive actions designed to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and to meet customer expectations. For more information on corrective actions taken by Baxter, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled &#147;Certain Regulatory Matters&#148; in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Government Regulation 

The operations of Baxter and many of the products manufactured or sold by the company are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the United States. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in Europe, the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) in China and other government agencies inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of Baxter&#146;s products. The company must obtain specific approval from FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities before it can market and sell most of its products in a particular country. Even after the company obtains regulatory approval to market a product, the product and the company&#146;s manufacturing processes and quality systems are subject to continued review by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. State agencies in the United States also regulate the facilities, operations, employees, products and services of the company within their respective states. The company and its facilities are subject to periodic inspections and possible administrative and legal actions by FDA and other regulatory agencies inside and outside the United States. Such actions may include warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. As situations require, the company takes steps to ensure safety and efficacy of its products, such as removing products found not to meet applicable requirements from the market and improving the effectiveness of quality systems. For more information on compliance actions taken by the company, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled &#147;Certain Regulatory Matters&#148; in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The company is also subject to various laws inside and outside the United States concerning its relationships with healthcare professionals and government officials, price reporting and regulation, the promotion, sales and marketing of its products and services, the importation and exportation of products, the operation of its facilities and distribution of products. In the United States, the company is subject to the oversight of FDA, Office of the Inspector General within the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Defense and Customs and Border Protection in addition to others. The company supplies products and services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare. As a result, the company&#146;s activities are subject to regulation by CMS and enforcement by OIG and DOJ. In each jurisdiction outside the United States, the company&#146;s activities are subject to regulation by government agencies including the EMA in Europe, CFDA in China and other agencies in other jurisdictions. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to healthcare companies in recent years. These actions appear to be part of a general trend toward increased enforcement activity globally. 

Environmental policies of the company require compliance with all applicable environmental regulations and contemplate, among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental protection. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, Baxter employed approximately 50,000 people. 

&#160; 

Available Information 

Baxter makes available free of charge on its website at www.baxter.com its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Baxter&#146;s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and the charters for the committees of Baxter&#146;s Board of Directors are available on Baxter&#146;s website at www.baxter.com under &#147;About us &#151; Governance, Ethics &#38; Compliance.&#148; All the foregoing materials will be made available to stockholders in print upon request by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Information contained on Baxter&#146;s website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

