 I TEM 1. BUSINESS Summary of Business Results and Plans 

Famous Dave&#146;s of America, Inc. (&#147;Famous Dave&#146;s&#148;, the &#147;Company&#148; or &#147;we&#148;) was incorporated as a Minnesota corporation in March 1994 and opened its first restaurant in Minneapolis, Minnesota in June 1995. As of January 3, 2016, there were 179 Famous Dave&#146;s restaurants operating in 33 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and Canada, including 44 Company-owned restaurants and 135 franchise-operated restaurants. An additional 58 franchise restaurants were committed to be developed through signed area development agreements at January 3, 2016. 

Fiscal 2015 continued to be another year of transition for Famous Dave&#146;s. The Company refranchised five company-owned restaurants in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Florence, Kentucky, Greenwood, Indiana, Lincoln, Nebraska, and Smithtown, New York. Additionally, late in the fourth quarter the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to refranchise its seven Chicago-area restaurants (located in Addison, Algonquin, Bolingbrook, Evergreen Park, North Riverside, Orland Park, and Oswego, Illinois). Subsequent to year end, on March, 1, 2016, this transaction was completed. This transaction resulted in classifying these restaurants as &#147;Discontinued Operations&#148; for all years reported and excluded from the operating results. 

The Company&#146;s topline sales continued to be challenged throughout 2015 with a comparable sales decline of 9.3%. The Company believes that this was primarily a result of strategic decisions made beginning in the first quarter of 2014 and compounded by restaurant-level changes implemented in the first quarter of 2015 that adversely impacted our guests&#146; experience. These restaurant-level changes were reversed during the second half of 2015. The Company believes that it will take significant time for these changes to begin to be noticed by the guest and then to positively impact sales. However, an early indication that these changes have been well received is that our measure of Overall Guest Satisfaction has increased by 16.6% since the changes were made in June of 2015. 

In fiscal 2015, total revenue was $114.2 million, a decrease from $131.9 million in fiscal 2014. This decrease predominantly reflected a comparable sales decline and the impact from refranchising five Company-owned locations, partially offset by sales from the company&#146;s 53 rd operating week. Franchise royalty revenue and fees increased as a result of the 53 rd operating week, partially offset by a comparable sales decline. Licensing and other revenue was flat year-over-year. The Company saw a comparable sales decrease for Company-owned restaurants of 9.3% compared to a comparable sales decrease of 5.7% for fiscal 2014. 

The franchise-operated restaurants saw a comparable sales decrease of 2.5% in each of fiscal 2015 and 2014. Sales for franchise-operated restaurants are not revenues of the Company and are not included in the Company&#146;s consolidated financial statements. The Company&#146;s management believes that disclosure of sales for franchise-operated restaurants provides useful information to investors because historical performance and trends of Famous Dave&#146;s franchisees related directly to trends in franchise royalty revenues that the Company receives from such franchisees and have an impact on the perceived success and value of the Famous Dave&#146;s brand. It also provides a comparison against which management and investors can evaluate the extent to which Company-owned restaurant operations are realizing their revenue potential. In addition to refranchising five Company-owned restaurants, the Company closed one Company-owned restaurant. The Company did not open any new Company-owned restaurants in fiscal 2015. During 2015, three new franchise-operated restaurants opened and twelve lower volume franchise-operated restaurants closed. 

Fiscal 2015 earnings per diluted share were $0.15. This included the positive impact of $817,000, or $0.12 per diluted share, of net non-cash gains as the result of the sale of the land for two previously closed restaurants in Richmond, VA and Eden Prairie, MN and the refranchising of the Lincoln, Nebraska restaurant that included the sale of the underlying real estate. These gains were partially offset by the charges from the refranchising of Cedar Falls, Iowa, Florence, Kentucky, Greenwood Indiana, and Smithtown, New York. This compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.31 in fiscal 2014. 

Fiscal 2015 earnings per diluted share decreased year-over-year due to several factors. The decline in restaurant sales had an adverse impact on operating margins. Furthermore, the Company incurred increased general and administrative expenses as a result of professional fees associated with brand development, legal fees associated with corporate and franchise matters resulting from the changes to the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, a year-over-year increase in stock-based compensation, and a charge recorded for obsolete plate ware. These cost increases were partially offset by a decline in headcount at the Support Center. 

&#160; 

Although the Company is still early in its turnaround, its priority for 2016 is solely focused on increasing guest traffic and generating comparable sales growth. To help drive this growth the Company has augmented its senior leadership team by adding an experienced Chief Operating Officer and, early in 2016, a Chief Marketing Officer. It aims to achieve growth through sustainable and accretive guest-traffic building initiatives across all lines of business (Dine In, To Go and Catering) while emphasizing guest service and hospitality at the restaurant level. The Company remains focused and committed to serving the needs of our franchisees. Furthermore, the Company continues to focus on improving profitability at both the restaurant and Company-level, refranchising Company restaurants to well-qualified existing and new franchisees and maintaining balance sheet flexibility to make appropriate capital allocation decisions. 

The Company continues to target refranchising Company-owned restaurants so that it will eventually operate a limited number of restaurants system-wide. The Company will aim to sell some of its existing restaurants to existing and new franchisees that have the ability to not only acquire these restaurants but also to develop additional restaurants. The Company believes refranchising focuses the organization on serving our franchisees. 

During 2015 and early 2016, the Company has sold the real estate on which three previously closed restaurants were located (two in Richmond, Virginia and one in Eden Prairie, Minnesota) and has sold two properties as a result of refranchising (Lincoln, Nebraska, and Addison, Illinois). 

Financial Information about Segments 

Since our inception, our revenue, operating income and assets have been attributable to the single industry segment of the foodservice industry. Our revenue and operating income for each of the last three fiscal years, and our assets for each of the last two fiscal years, are set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Narrative Description of Business 

Famous Dave&#146;s restaurants, a majority of which offer full table service, feature wood-smoked and off-the-grill entr&#233;e favorites that fit into the broadly defined barbeque category. We seek to differentiate ourselves by providing high-quality food in distinctive and comfortable environments with signature d&#233;cor and signage. As of January 3, 2016, 38 of our Company-owned restaurants were full-service and six were counter-service. Generally, our prototypical design includes the following elements: a designated bar, a signature exterior smokestack, a separate entrance for our To Go business and a patio (where available). This design enables us to capitalize on a consistent trade-dress and readily identifiable look and feel for our future locations. We have designs that can be adapted to fit various location sizes and desired service styles such as full-service or counter-service. 

In 2015, our three franchise openings were a mixture of conversions of existing full-service casual dining restaurants to our concept as well as new construction. In 2015, the Company did not open any Company-owned restaurants. In fiscal 2014, the Company completed a significant remodel of two Chicago-area restaurants. In fiscal 2013, the Company completed construction on two restaurants in Maryland; both were ground-up construction of full-service restaurants. All other locations that opened in fiscal 2013 were franchise-owned full-service restaurants. 

We offer conversion packages that provide our franchisees with the flexibility to convert existing restaurants as well as existing retail footprints into a Famous Dave&#146;s restaurant. Due to the flexibility and scalability of our concept, we believe that there are a variety of development opportunities available now and in the future. 

We pride ourselves on the following: 

High Quality Food &#151; Each restaurant features a distinctive selection of authentic hickory-smoked and off-the-grill barbecue favorites, such as flame-grilled St. Louis-style and baby back ribs, Texas beef brisket, Georgia chopped pork, country-roasted chicken, and signature sandwiches and salads. Also, enticing side items, such as corn bread, 

&#160; 

potato salad, coleslaw, Shack Fries TM and Wilbur Beans TM , accompany the broad entr&#233;e selection. Homemade desserts, including Famous Dave&#146;s Bread Pudding and Hot Fudge Kahlua Brownies, are another specialty. To complement our entr&#233;e and appetizer items and to suit different customer tastes, we offer six regional barbeque sauces: Rich &#38; Sassy &#174; , Texas Pit TM , Georgia Mustard TM , Devil&#146;s Spit &#174; , Sweet and Zesty TM and Wilbur&#146;s Revenge TM . These sauces, in addition to a variety of seasonings, rubs, marinades, and other items are also distributed in retail grocery stores throughout the country under licensing agreements. 

We believe that high quality food, a menu that is over 85% &#147;scratch cooking&#148; and the fact that we smoke our meats daily at each of our restaurants are principal points of differentiation between us and other casual dining competitors and are a significant contributing factor to repeat business. We also feel that our focus on barbecue being a noun, a verb and a culture allows for product innovation without diluting our brand. As a noun, barbeque refers to the art of the smoke and sauce. As a verb, barbeque refers to the act of grilling. As a culture, barbeque refers to the competitive spirit. As a result, we see few geographic impediments to scaling our concept and brand. 

Focus on Guest Experience &#151; We believe that a renewed focus on enhancing our guest&#146;s experience and listening to their feedback is an essential pillar of the Company. In 2016, we will continue to test and further enhance our guests experience by focusing on hospitality, food execution and training. We believe a positive guest experience, combined with our high-quality food, makes Famous Dave&#146;s appeal to families, children, teenagers and adults of all ages and socio-economic and demographic backgrounds. 

Distinctive Environment &#151; D&#233;cor and Music &#151; During 2015, the Company largely reversed changes in d&#233;cor and music rolled-out in 2014 that had not been well received by the Company&#146;s guests. 

Our original d&#233;cor theme was a nostalgic roadhouse shack (&#147;Original Shack&#148;), as defined by the abundant use of rustic antiques and items of Americana. This format was used for both full-service and counter-service restaurant formats. In late 1997, we introduced the &#147;Lodge&#148; format which featured d&#233;cor reminiscent of a comfortable &#147;Northwoods&#148; hunting lodge with a full-service dining room and small bar. In addition, we developed a larger &#147;Blues Club&#148; format that featured authentic Chicago Blues Club d&#233;cor and live music seven nights a week. We have evolved our format to that of a full-service concept with several &#147;prototypical&#148; designs that incorporate the best attributes of the past restaurants while providing a consistent brand image 

Operating Strategy 

We believe that our ability to achieve sustainable profitable growth is dependent upon us delivering high-quality experiences in terms of both food and hospitality to every guest, every day, and to enhance brand awareness in our markets. Key elements of our strategy include the following: 

Operational Excellence &#151; During fiscal 2015, we continued to focus on operational excellence and integrity, and on creating a consistently enjoyable guest experience, both in terms of food and hospitality, across our system. We define operational excellence as an uncompromising attention to the details of our recipes, preparation and cooking procedures, handling procedures, rotation, sanitation, cleanliness and safety. Operational excellence also means an unyielding commitment to provide our guests with superior service during every visit. In our restaurants, we strive to emphasize value and speed of service by employing a streamlined operating system based on a focused menu and simplified food preparation techniques while remaining true to authentic barbeque. 

Our menu focuses on a number of popular smoked, barbequed, grilled meats, entr&#233;e items and delicious side dishes which are prepared using easy-to-operate kitchen equipment and processes that use proprietary seasonings, sauces and mixes. This streamlined food preparation system helps manage the cost of operation by requiring fewer staff, lower training costs, and eliminates the need for highly compensated chefs. Additionally, barbeque has the ability to be batch cooked and held, which enables our award winning food to get to our guests quickly, whether in the restaurant, at their homes, or at a catering event. In order to enhance our appeal, expand our audience, increase frequency, and feature our cravable products, we have assembled a research and development product pipeline designed to generate new, delicious and exciting menu items that allow us to regularly update our menu. 

During 2015, we offered our guests several new products as well as featured several signature menu items. Early in 2015, and in support of the Lenten season, we featured several fish entr&#233;e&#146;s such as catfish, salmon, and cod. We 

&#160; 

also offered an Easter holiday meal program with our own Signature Smoked Hams. In the spring, we launched a promotion that featured &#147;our House-Smoked Turkey&#148;, on a platter, as well as the main protein on a salad. In the fall, the Company featured its smoked Brisket and during the holiday season, we featured system-wide a Signature Smoked Ham and Signature Smoked Turkey product available for off-premise occasions. 

Human Resources and Training/Development &#151; A key ingredient to our success lies with our ability to hire, train, engage and retain employees at all levels of our organization. We place a great deal of importance on creating an exceptional working environment for all of our employees. Through our Human Resource and Training/Development resources, tools and programs, we continually enhance and support superior performance within our restaurants and Support Center. Our foundational guiding principle is doing the right thing for the organization and our guests while ensuring we have the right people in the right roles with the right resources and tools. 

We are a performance-based organization, committed to recognizing and rewarding performance at all levels of the organization. Our performance management process includes performance calibration at the organizational level as a means of providing measureable, comparative employee evaluations relative to peer contribution, taking into account specific core competencies and goals. It is designed to provide a complete picture of performance that is consistent across the organization. We offer a total rewards program that is benchmarked closely against the industry and includes health and welfare coverage, 401(k) and non-qualified deferred compensation with a company match, base pay and incentive pay programs developed to sustain our market competitive position. Our Human Resource and Training organization focuses on the selection and retention of talent through programs in overall workforce planning, performance management, development, safety and risk reduction, and continued enhancements in our organizational structures for all positions in the business. 

In the Training and Development arena, we offer a variety of ongoing on-the-job and classroom training programs for the operations teams (hourly employees, Restaurant Managers, and Multi-Unit Managers) in an effort to create defined career paths. Our Management Trainee program provides new restaurant managers a foundational based training for restaurant operations, including ServSafe Food and Alcohol Certification, and several learning sessions focused on the basic behaviors and skills of a Famous Dave&#146;s Manager. We also offer a Famous Dave&#146;s Leadership Series program which provides a library of workshop offerings focused on building and strengthening core skills in the areas of communication, teamwork, coaching, change management and performance management. In addition, we have incorporated e-learning training tasks, skills and processes on-demand. 

Restaurant Operations 

Our ability to manage multiple restaurants in geographically diverse locations is central to our overall success. In each market, we place specific emphasis on the positions of Area Director and General Manager, and seek talented individuals that bring a diverse set of skills, knowledge, and experience to the Company. We strive to maintain quality and consistency in each of our restaurants through the careful training and supervision of employees and the establishment of, and adherence to, high standards relating to performance, food and beverage preparation, and maintenance of facilities. 

All Managers must complete an eight-week training program, during which they are instructed in areas such as food quality and preparation, customer service, hospitality, and employee relations. We have prepared operations&#146; manuals relating to food and beverage quality and service standards. New employees participate in training under the close supervision of our Management. Each General Manager reports to an Area Director, who manages from six to seven restaurants, depending on the region. Our Area Directors have all served as General Managers, either for Famous Dave&#146;s or for other restaurants, and are responsible for ensuring that operational standards are consistently applied in our restaurants, communicating Company focus and priorities, and supporting the development of restaurant management teams. In addition to the training that the General Managers are required to complete as noted above, our Area Directors receive additional training through Area Director Workshops that focus specifically on managing multiple locations, planning, time management, staff and management development skills. 

We have a Sr. Director of Operations who is responsible for overseeing all Company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants. This individual works closely with the Area Directors to support day-to-day restaurant operations. In addition, the Sr. Director of Operations assists in the professional development of our multi-unit supervisors and general managers. The Sr. Director of Operations is also instrumental in driving our vision of operational integrity and contributing to the improvement of results achieved at our restaurants, including building sales, developing personnel and growing profits. The Sr. Director reports to the Chief Operating Officer. 

&#160; 

Staffing levels at each restaurant vary according to the time of day and size of the restaurant. However, in general, each restaurant has approximately 40 to 60 employees. 

Off-Premise Occasions &#151; Focus on Convenience &#151; In addition to our lively and entertaining dine-in experience, we provide our guests with maximum convenience by offering an expedient take-out service along with catering. We believe that Famous Dave&#146;s entr&#233;es and side dishes are viewed by guests as traditional American &#147;picnic foods&#148; that maintain their quality and travel particularly well, making them an attractive choice to replace a home-cooked meal. Also, the high quality, fair prices and avoidance of preparation time make take-out of our product particularly attractive. Our off-premise sales provide us with revenue opportunities beyond our in-house seating capacity and we continue to seek ways to leverage these segments of our business. 

Catering accounted for approximately 12.3% of our net sales for fiscal 2015, as compared to 9.8% in 2014. We see catering as an opportunity for new consumers to sample our product who would not otherwise have had the opportunity to visit our restaurants, and each restaurant has a dedicated vehicle to support our catering initiatives. During 2015, we implemented a catering call center for phone-in and web catering orders which provided our catering sales managers with more time to grow this area of the business. 

To Go accounted for approximately 28.2% of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2015, as compared to 26.5% in 2014. Our restaurants have been designed specifically to accommodate a significant level of To Go sales, including a separate To Go entrance with prominent and distinct signage, and for added convenience, we separately staff the To Go counter. We believe our focus on To Go enables Famous Dave&#146;s to capture a greater portion of the &#147;take-out&#148; market by allowing consumers to &#147;trade within our brand,&#148; when dining in is not always an option. We pursue efforts to increase awareness of To Go in all Company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants by featuring signage and merchandising both inside and outside the restaurants. 

Customer Satisfaction &#151; We believe that we achieve a significant level of repeat business by providing high-quality food, efficient friendly service, and warm caring hospitality in an entertaining environment at moderate prices. We strive to maintain quality and consistency in each of our restaurants through the purposeful hiring, training and supervision of personnel and the establishment of, and adherence to, high standards of performance, food preparation and facility maintenance. We have also built family-friendly strategies into each restaurant&#146;s food, service and design by providing children&#146;s menus, smaller-sized entrees at reduced prices and changing tables in restrooms. 

Value Proposition and Guest Frequency &#151; We offer high quality food and a distinctive atmosphere at competitive prices to encourage frequent patronage. Lunch and dinner entrees range from $6.99 to $24.99, resulting in a per person dine-in and To Go average of $17.05 during fiscal 2015. During fiscal 2015, lunch checks averaged $16.18 and dinner checks averaged $19.99. We intend to use value priced offerings, new product introductions, and the convenience of connecting with guests on their own terms, to drive new and infrequent guests into our restaurants for additional meal occasions. 

Marketing, Promotion and Sales 

We believe that by specializing in unique and distinctive smoked meats, poultry &#38; fish, our menu specialty helps set the brand apart from the rest of the crowded field in casual dining. To further develop the advertising and promotional materials and programs designed to create brand awareness and increase the reach of the brand, we have a system-wide marketing fund. All Company-owned restaurants, and those franchise-operated restaurants with agreements signed after December 17, 2003 are generally required to contribute 1.0% of net sales to this fund. In fiscal 2015, the Marketing Ad Fund contribution was 1.0% of net sales. In 2016, the Marketing Ad Fund contribution system-wide will continue at the contractual rate of 1.0% of net sales. In fiscal 2014, predominately due to the carryover of funds from fiscal 2013, the Company temporarily decreased the 2014 Marketing Ad Fund contribution system-wide to 0.75% of net sales. 

The marketing team, working with outside consultants and other resources, is responsible for the advertising, promotion, creative development, and branding for Famous Dave&#146;s. Franchise-operated restaurants place the 

&#160; 

advertising and marketing programs in their local markets based on contractual requirements, while the Famous Dave&#146;s marketing team plans and executes the advertising and marketing for Company-owned restaurants. Famous Dave&#146;s uses industry standard marketing efforts that include broadcast media, digital, online &#38; social media platforms, public relations and out-of-home vehicles. During 2015, we had 1.8 million Famous Nation members and approximately 393,000 fans on Facebook. 

The strategic focus for marketing and promotion is to ensure that Famous Dave&#146;s is recognized as the category&#150;defining brand in BBQ, to create and sustain attractive differentiation in consumer&#146;s mind, and to continue to strengthen the brand&#146;s positioning &#38; consistency. In fiscal 2014 the Company discontinued the broad use of discounts to drive guest traffic as it had the previous couple of years. To help drive top-line sales, the Company is implementing a guest research driven innovation process to create its rolling 18 month marketing calendar with specific strategic goals. Additionally, a number of new initiatives were planned around enhancing the menu, the guest experience, events marketing and social media. 

Famous Dave&#146;s is somewhat unique in casual dining having four different occasions to interact with the consumer: Dine-In, To Go, Catering, and Retail. In 2015, we shifted our emphasis to achieving growth by going deeper in connecting with guests on their terms. Each of these dining occasions&#146; offer unique and often compelling sources of growth, and each occasion is growing at a different rate. Leveraging this occasions matrix, we are uniquely poised to offer more immediate relevancy and sales opportunities by solving the guest&#146;s daily dinner dilemma and address these differences in our marketing, including menu, promotional outreach, pricing, and new product news. 

Location Strategy 

We believe that the barbeque segment of the casual dining niche of the restaurant industry continues to offer strong growth opportunities, and we see few impediments to our growth on a geographical basis. Our geographical concentration as of January 3, 2016 was 40% Midwest, 11% Middle Atlantic, 7% South, 31% West, 8% Northeast, 1% in Canada and 2% in Puerto Rico. We were located in 33 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and Canada as of January 3, 2016. 

We prepare an overall market development strategy for each market. The creation of this market strategy starts with identifying trade areas that align demographically with the target guest profile. The identified trade areas are then assessed for viability and vitality and prioritized as initial, second tier, or future development. Since markets are dynamic, the market strategy includes a continual and ongoing assessment of all existing restaurant locations. If financially feasible, a restaurant may be relocated as the retail or residential focus in a trade area shifts. 

We have a real estate site selection model to assist in assessing the site and trade area quality of new locations. This process involves consumer research in our existing restaurants, the results of which are captured in a target guest profile that is regularly updated. Each location is evaluated based on three primary sales drivers that include: sales potential from the residential base (home quality), employment base (work quality), and retail activity (retail quality). Locations are also evaluated on their site characteristics that includes seven categories of key site attributes, including, but not limited to, access, visibility, and parking. 

As part of our development strategy, we have engaged design firms to redesign and reimage the traditional full-service prototype. These firms have assisted in developing plans for future service style models such as an updated counter-service, line-service and hybrid flex-service models. The future service-style models will allow us to access new markets or strategically locate restaurants in existing markets where a full-service restaurant is unlikely to be financially viable. The surrounding trade area will determine which service style is appropriate. Site selection will focus on newly developed green-field retail developments or existing retail projects being re-developed. Conversion opportunities will be considered on a case by case basis. We intend to finance development through the use of cash on hand, cash flow generated from operations, and through availability on our revolving line of credit. 

Company-Owned Restaurant Development &#151; In 2016, we do not expect to open a Company-owned restaurant. In the future we expect to continue to build in our existing markets in high profile, heavy traffic retail locations. Our plan is to focus on sustainable, controlled growth, primarily in markets where multiple restaurants can be opened, thereby expanding consumer awareness, and creating opportunities for operating, distribution, and marketing efficiencies. 

&#160; 

Franchise-Operated Restaurant Development &#151; We expect to continue to grow the franchise program. Our goal is to continue to improve the economics of our current restaurant prototypes, while providing more cost-effective development options for our franchisees. As of January 3, 2016, we had signed franchise area development agreements with aggregate commitments for 58 additional units that are expected to open over approximately the next five years, including a four unit Area Development Agreement in the United Arab Emirates. However, there can be no assurance that these franchisees will fulfill their commitments or fulfill them within the anticipated timeframe. Our franchise system is a significant part of our brand&#146;s success. As such, another one of our goals is to be a valued franchisor; to enhance communication and recognition of best practices throughout the system and to continue to expand our franchisee network here and outside of the United States. 

Generally, we find franchise candidates with prior franchise casual-dining restaurant experience in the markets for which they will be granted. In the past, area development agreements generally ranged from 3 to 15 restaurants, however, due to economic and market conditions, we have been willing to discuss smaller unit agreements as well as individual franchise restaurants in the right markets where it makes sense. Additionally, we have begun to focus on certain strategic international markets where it makes sense. We do believe that the additional service-style formats will allow us to bring new franchisees, with diverse restaurant experience, into the system. 

Purchasing 

To provide the freshest ingredients and in order to maximize operational efficiencies for our food products, we strive to obtain consistent quality items at competitive prices from reliable sources, including identifying secondary suppliers for many of our key products. Additionally, our secondary suppliers help us assure supply chain integrity and better logistics. Finally, to reduce freight costs, we continually aim to optimize our distribution networks, where the products are shipped directly to the restaurants through our foodservice distributors. Each restaurant&#146;s management team determines the daily quantities of food items needed and orders such quantities to be delivered to their restaurant. 

Approximately 85% of our food and non-alcoholic beverage purchases are on contract, with the majority being proteins. Pork represents approximately 32% of our total purchases, while beef, which includes hamburger and brisket, is approximately 13%, chicken is approximately 13%, and seafood is approximately 2%. Our purchasing department contracts, as well as our food and beverage costs and trends associated with each, are discussed under &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#148; 

Our purchasing team is also responsible for managing the procurement of non-food items for our restaurants, including restaurant equipment, small wares and restaurant supplies. Also, they contract many of our restaurants repair and maintenance services along with managing our utility costs. 

Information Technology 

Famous Dave&#146;s recognizes the importance of leveraging information and technology to support and extend our competitive position in the restaurant industry. We continue to invest in capabilities that provide secure and efficient operations, maximize the guest experience, and provide the ability to analyze data that describes our operations. 

We have implemented a suite of restaurant and general headquarter systems which support operations by providing transactional functions (ordering, card processing, etc.) and reporting at both the unit and support center level. Interfaces between Point-of-Sale (POS), labor management, inventory management, menu management, key suppliers, and employee screening/hiring and financial systems all contribute to the following operator and corporate visibility: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Average guest check broken down by location, by server, by day part, and by revenue center; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Daily reports of revenue and labor (both current and forecasted); 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Weekly reports of selected controllable restaurant expenses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Monthly reporting of detailed revenue and expenses; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Ideal vs. actual usage variance reporting for critical restaurant-level materials 

&#160; 

Trademarks 

Our Company has registered various trademarks, makes use of various unregistered marks, and intends to vigorously defend these marks. &#147;Famous Dave&#146;s&#148; and the Famous Dave&#146;s logo are registered trademarks of Famous Dave&#146;s of America, Inc. The Company highly values its trademarks, trade names and service marks and will defend against any improper use of its marks to the fullest extent allowable by law. 

Franchise Program 

We are currently authorized to offer and sell franchises in 48 of 50 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United Arab Emirates, and have a Canadian franchise disclosure document available. Our growth and success depends in part upon our ability to attract, contract with and retain qualified franchisees. It also depends upon the ability of those franchisees to successfully operate their restaurants with our standards of quality and promote and develop Famous Dave&#146;s brand awareness. 

Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees, and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates his/her restaurants independently. Various laws limit our ability to influence the day-to-day operation of our franchise restaurants. We cannot assure you that franchisees will be able to successfully operate Famous Dave&#146;s restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards for operational excellence, service and food quality. 

At January 3, 2016, we had 36 ownership groups operating 135 Famous Dave&#146;s franchise restaurants. Signed area development agreements, representing commitments to open an additional 58 franchise restaurants, were in place as of January 3, 2016. There can be no assurance that these franchisees will fulfill their commitments or fulfill them within the anticipated timeframe. 

&#160; 

As of January 3, 2016, we had franchise-operated restaurants in the following locations: 

&#160;

United States 

&#160; Number of Franchise-Operated Restaurants Arizona 

&#160; 6 California 

&#160; 19 Colorado 

&#160; 6 Delaware 

&#160; 2 Florida 

&#160; 3 Idaho 

&#160; 2 Illinois 

&#160; 3 Indiana 

&#160; 4 Iowa 

&#160; 4 Kansas 

&#160; 2 Kentucky 

&#160; 2 Maine 

&#160; 1 Maryland 

&#160; 1 Michigan 

&#160; 9 Minnesota 

&#160; 4 Missouri 

&#160; 3 Montana 

&#160; 4 Nebraska 

&#160; 4 Nevada 

&#160; 6 New Jersey 

&#160; 1 New York 

&#160; 3 North Dakota 

&#160; 3 Oregon 

&#160; 2 Ohio 

&#160; 2 Pennsylvania 

&#160; 4 South Dakota 

&#160; 2 Tennessee 

&#160; 5 Texas 

&#160; 3 Utah 

&#160; 3 Washington 

&#160; 7 Wisconsin 

&#160; 10 Wyoming 

&#160; 1 &#160; &#160;

United States Total 

&#160; 131 The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 

&#160; 3 Canada 

&#160; 1 &#160; &#160;

United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Canada Total 

&#160; 135 &#160; 

Our Franchise Operations Department is made up of the Chief Operating Officer that guides the efforts of a Sr. Director of Operations, supported by four Franchise Area Directors. The Sr. Director of Operations has the responsibility of supporting our franchisees throughout the country and plays a critical role for us as well as for our franchise community. The Sr. Director of Operations manages the relationship between the franchisee and the franchisor and provides an understanding of the roles, responsibilities, differences, and accountabilities of that relationship. They are an active participant towards enhancing performance, as they partner in strategic and operational planning sessions with our franchise partners and review the individual strategies and tactics for obtaining superior performance for the franchisee. They ensure compliance with obligations under our area development and franchise agreements. Franchisees are encouraged to utilize all available assistance from the Sr. Director of Operations and the Franchise Area Directors and the Support Center but are not required to do so. 

The Company has a comprehensive operations&#146; scorecard and training tool that helps us measure the operational effectiveness of our Company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants. This scorecard is used to evaluate, monitor and improve operations in areas such as guest satisfaction, health and safety standards, community involvement, and local store marketing effectiveness, among other operating metrics. Also, we generally provide support as it relates to all aspects of franchise operations including, but not limited to, store openings and operating performance. Finally, the Company solicits feedback from our franchise system by having an active dialogue with all Franchisees throughout the year. 

Our franchise-related revenue is comprised of three separate and distinct earnings processes: area development fees, initial franchise fees and continuing royalty payments. Currently, our area development fee for domestic growth consists of a one-time, non-refundable payment of approximately $10,000 per restaurant in consideration for the services we perform in preparation of executing each area development agreement. For our foreign area development agreements the one time, non-refundable payment is negotiated on a per development agreement basis and is determined based on the costs incurred to sell that development agreement. Substantially all of these services, which include, but are not limited to, conducting market and trade area analysis, a meeting with Famous Dave&#146;s Executive Team, and performing a potential franchise background investigation, are completed prior to our execution of the area development agreement and receipt of the corresponding area development fee. As a result, we recognize this fee in full upon receipt. Currently, our initial, non-refundable, franchise fee for domestic growth is $45,000 per restaurant, of which approximately $5,000 is recognized immediately when a franchise agreement is signed, reflecting expenses incurred related to the sale. The remaining non-refundable fee is included in deferred franchise fees and is recognized as revenue when we have performed substantially all of our obligations, which generally occurs upon the franchise entering into a lease agreement for the restaurant(s). Finally, franchisees are also required to pay us a monthly royalty equal to a percentage of their net sales, which has historically varied from 4% to 5%. In general, new franchises pay us a monthly royalty of 5% of their net sales. 

The franchisee&#146;s investment depends primarily upon restaurant size. This investment includes the area development fee, initial franchise fee, real estate and leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment, POS systems, business licenses, deposits, initial food inventory, small wares, d&#233;cor and training fees as well as working capital. In 2015, franchisees were required to contribute 1.0% of net sales to a marketing fund dedicated to building system-wide brand awareness. In 2016, franchisees will be required to contribute 1.0% of net sales to the marketing fund. Additionally, franchisees have historically spent 1.5% to 2.0% of their net sales annually on local marketing activities. Currently, franchisees are required to spend approximately 1.5% of their net sales annually on local marketing activities. 

Seasonality 

Our restaurants typically generate higher revenue in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year as a result of seasonal traffic increases and high catering sales experienced during the summer months, and lower revenue in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, due to possible adverse weather which can disrupt guest and team member transportation to our restaurants. 

Government Regulation 

Our Company is subject to extensive state and local government regulation by various governmental agencies, including state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations and various regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages, sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products, public health, safety and fire standards. Our restaurants are subject to periodic inspections by governmental agencies to 

&#160; 

ensure conformity with such regulations. Any difficulty or failure to obtain required licensing or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant, and the suspension of, or inability to renew a license, could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant, any of which would adversely affect our operations. Restaurant operating costs are also affected by other government actions that are beyond our control, including increases in minimum hourly wage requirements, workers compensation insurance rates, health care insurance costs, property and casualty insurance, and unemployment and other taxes. We are also subject to &#147;dram-shop&#148; statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. 

As a franchisor, we are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for federal regulation of substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. As proposed, such legislation would limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise, and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. 

The 1990 Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We could be required to incur costs to modify our restaurants in order to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Our restaurants are currently designed to be accessible to the disabled, and we believe we are in substantial compliance with all current applicable regulations relating to this Act. 

Team Members 

As of January 3, 2016, we employed approximately 2,585 team members of which approximately 215 were salaried full-time employees. None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationships with our team members to be good. 

&#160;

