 Item 1. Business. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the use of the terms "we," "us" and "our" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Best Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries. Any references to our website addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites. 

Description of Business 

We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966. Today, we are a leading provider of technology products, services and solutions. We offer these products and services to the customers who visit our stores, engage with Geek Squad agents or use our websites or mobile applications. We have operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. 

Information About Our Segments and Geographic Areas 

We have two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all states, districts and territories of the U.S., under various brand names including Best Buy, bestbuy.com, Best Buy Mobile, Best Buy Direct, Best Buy Express, Geek Squad, Magnolia Home Theater and Pacific Kitchen and Home. 

The International segment is comprised of all operations in Canada and Mexico under the brand names Best Buy, bestbuy.com.ca, bestbuy.com.mx, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Mobile and Geek Squad. 

In March 2015, we decided to consolidate Future Shop and Best Buy stores and websites in Canada under the Best Buy brand. This resulted in permanently closing 66 Future Shop stores and converting 65 Future Shop stores to the Best Buy brand. 

Additional information on these changes is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Note 4, Restructuring Charges , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In fiscal 2007, we acquired a 75% interest in Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., Ltd. (&#8220;Five Star&#8221;), one of China&#8217;s largest appliance and consumer electronics retailers. In fiscal 2009, we acquired the remaining 25% interest in Five Star. On December 3, 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell Five Star, and we completed the sale on February 13, 2015. In fiscal 2009, we acquired a 50% interest in Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited (&#8220;Best Buy Europe&#8221;), a venture with Carphone Warehouse Group plc (&#8220;CPW&#8221;). On June 26, 2013, we sold our 50% ownership interest in Best Buy Europe to CPW. 

Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Note 11, Segment and Geographic Information , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Operations 

Our Domestic and International segments are managed by leadership teams responsible for all areas of the business. Both segments operate an omni-channel platform that provides customers the ability to shop when and where they want. 

Domestic Segment 

Development of merchandise and services offerings, pricing and promotions, procurement and supply chain, online and mobile application operations, marketing and advertising, and labor deployment across all channels are centrally managed at our corporate headquarters. In addition, support capabilities (for example, human resources, finance and real estate management) are generally performed at our corporate headquarters. We also have field operations that support retail teams. Our retail stores have procedures for inventory management, asset protection, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are largely standardized within each store brand. All stores within each store brand generally operate under standard procedures with a degree of flexibility for store management to address certain local market characteristics. 

International Segment 

Our Canada and Mexico store operations are similar to those in our Domestic segment. 

In March 2015, we decided to consolidate Future Shop and Best Buy stores and websites in Canada under the Best Buy brand. This resulted in permanently closing 66 Future Shop stores and converting 65 Future Shop stores to the Best Buy brand. 

Merchandise and Services 

Our Domestic and International segments have offerings in six revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Appliances, Services and Other. The key components of each revenue category are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Consumer Electronics &#32;- home theater, home automation, digital imaging, health and fitness and portable audio; 

&#8226; 

Computing and Mobile Phones &#32;- computing and peripherals, networking, tablets, mobile phones (including related mobile network carrier commissions), wearables (including smart watches) and e-readers; 

&#8226; 

Entertainment &#32;- gaming hardware and software, movies, music, technology toys and other software; 

&#8226; 

Appliances &#32;- major appliances (for example, refrigeration, dishwashers, ovens, laundry, etc.) and small appliances (for example, coffee makers, blenders, etc.); 

&#8226; 

Services &#32;- consultation, design, delivery, installation, set-up, protection plans, repair, technical support and educational classes; and 

&#8226; 

Other &#32;- snacks, beverages and other sundry items. 

Distribution 

Domestic Segment 

U.S. Best Buy online merchandise sales are typically either picked up at U.S. Best Buy stores or delivered directly to customers from a distribution center or retail store. The ship-from-store capability allows us to improve product availability and delivery times for customers. Most merchandise is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers or warehouses located throughout the U.S. In order to meet release dates for certain products, merchandise may be shipped directly to our stores from suppliers. 

International Segment 

Our distribution model for Canada and Mexico is similar to that of our Domestic segment model. 

Suppliers and Inventory 

Our Domestic and International segments purchase merchandise from a variety of suppliers. In fiscal 2016, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 75% of the merchandise we purchased, with five suppliers &#8211; Apple, Samsung, Hewlett-Packard, Sony and LG Electronics &#8211; representing approximately 51% of total merchandise purchased. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our major suppliers that require them to continue supplying us with merchandise or any other terms. 

We carefully monitor and manage our inventory levels to match quantities on hand with consumer demand as closely as possible. Key elements to our inventory management process include the following: continuous monitoring of historical and projected consumer demand, continuous monitoring and adjustment of inventory receipt levels, agreements with vendors relating to reimbursement for the cost of markdowns or sales incentives and agreements with vendors relating to return privileges for certain products. 

We also have a global sourcing operation to design, develop, test and contract-manufacture our exclusive brand products. 

Store Development 

We had approximately 1,200 large-format and 400 small-format stores at the end of fiscal 2016 throughout our Domestic and International segments. Our stores are a vital component of our omni-channel strategy and represent an important competitive advantage. In the U.S., we have the ability to ship from all of our Best Buy stores. Customers may also elect to pick up orders initiated online in any of our stores. In recent years, we have opened vendor store-within-a-store concepts to allow closer vendor partnership and a better quality customer experience. In fiscal 2017 and beyond, we will continue to look for opportunities to optimize our store space, renegotiating leases and selectively opening or closing locations to support our ongoing transformation. 

In March 2015, we made a decision to consolidate Future Shop and Best Buy stores and websites in Canada under the Best Buy brand. This resulted in permanently closing 66 Future Shop stores and converting 65 Future Shop stores to the Best Buy brand. 

Refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, &#32;for tables reconciling our Domestic and International segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Dynex, Future Shop, Geek Squad, Init, Insignia, Magnolia, Modal, My Best Buy, Pacific Sales, Rocketfish , Plantinum &#32;and our Yellow Tag &#32;logo. 

We have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our websites. 

Seasonality 

Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. A higher proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. 

Working Capital 

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and investment and growth opportunities. Our working capital needs typically increase in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventory in advance of expected sales. 

Competition 

Our competitors are primarily multi-channel retailers, internet-based businesses, technology service providers, traditional store-based retailers and vendors and mobile network carriers, who offer their products and services directly to customers. We believe our ability to deliver a high quality customer experience offers us a key competitive advantage. Some of our competitors have low cost operating structures and seek to compete for sales primarily on price. In addition, in the U.S., online-only operators are exempt from collecting sales taxes in certain states. We believe this advantage will continue to be eroded as sales tax rules are re-evaluated at both the state and federal levels. We carefully monitor pricing offered by other retailers, and maintaining price competitiveness is one of our ongoing priorities. In addition, we have a price-matching policy in the U.S. that allows customers to request that we match a price offered by certain retail store and online operators. In order to allow this, we are focused on maintaining efficient operations and leveraging the economies of scale available to us through our global vendor partnerships. We believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, integrated online and retail assets, broad product assortment, strong vendor relationships, range of focused service and support offerings, distinct store formats, brand marketing strategies and supply chain are important ways in which we maintain this advantage. 

Environmental Matters 

Best Buy is committed to positively impacting the environment and our communities. We believe that effectively managing our environmental impacts, setting sustainability goals and advancing energy-efficient consumer solutions creates long-term value for all of our stakeholders. 

&#160; 

We are continuously looking for cost-effective solutions to minimize carbon emissions in our operations. In fiscal year 2016 we set a new goal to reduce our own carbon emissions by 45 percent by 2020 (over a 2009 baseline), from both operational reductions and renewable sourcing. 

&#160; 

See our Best Buy Corporate Responsibility &#38; Sustainability Report for further information on environmental performance. 

Number of Employees 

At the end of fiscal 2016, we employed approximately 125,000 &#32;full-time, part-time and seasonal employees in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and our sourcing office in China. We consider our employee relations to be good. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory requirements, which we believe are competitive locally and in the aggregate relative to others in our industry. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

We also make available, free of charge on our website, our Amended and Restated By-laws, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ("Board") and our Code of Business Ethics (including any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Ethics) adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board's committees: Audit Committee; Compensation and Human Resources Committee; Finance and Investment Policy Committee; and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . 

Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to Best Buy Co., Inc. Investor Relations Department at 7601 Penn Avenue South, Richfield, MN 55423-3645. 

