 Item 1.

Business

General:

Balchem Corporation (&#8220;Balchem,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;), incorporated in the State of Maryland in 1967, is engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty performance ingredients and products for the food, nutritional, feed, pharmaceutical, medical sterilization and industrial markets. Our reportable segments are strategic businesses that offer products and services to different markets. We presently have four reportable segments: SensoryEffects; Animal Nutrition &#38; Health; Specialty Products; and Industrial Products.

The Company sells its products through its own sales force, independent distributors and sales agents. Financial information concerning the Company's business, business segments and geographic information appears in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 below and in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

&#160;

The Company operates four wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries: SensoryEffects, Inc. (&#8220;SE&#8221;), a Delaware corporation, SensoryEffects Cereal Systems, Inc. (&#8220;SECS&#8221;), a Delaware corporation, BCP Ingredients, Inc.

&#160;

(&#8220;BCP&#8221;), a Delaware corporation, and Aberco, Inc. (&#8220;Aberco&#8221;), a Maryland corporation. We operate two wholly-owned subsidiaries in Europe: Balchem BV, a Dutch limited liability company and Balchem Italia Srl, an Italian limited liability company. We also operate one wholly-owned subsidiary in Canada: Balchem LTD, a Canadian corporation. Unless otherwise stated to the contrary, or unless the context otherwise requires, references to the Company in this report includes Balchem Corporation and its subsidiaries.

SensoryEffects 

Our SensoryEffects segment supplies ingredients in the food and beverage industry; providing customized solutions in powder, solid and liquid flavor delivery systems, spray dried emulsified powder systems, and cereal systems. Our products include creamer systems, dairy replacers, powdered fats, nutritional beverage bases, beverages, juice &#38; dairy bases, chocolate systems, ice cream bases &#38; variegates, ready-to-eat cereals, grain based snacks, and cereal based ingredients. Additionally, we provide microencapsulation solutions to a variety of applications in food, pharmaceutical and nutritional ingredients to enhance performance of nutritional fortification, processing, mixing, and packaging applications and shelf-life. Major product applications are baked goods, refrigerated and frozen dough systems, processed meats, seasoning blends, confections, and nutritional supplements. We also produce and market human grade choline nutrient products through this segment for wellness applications. Choline is recognized to play a key role in the development and structural integrity of brain cell membranes in infants, processing dietary fat, reproductive development and neural functions, such as memory and muscle function. 

Animal Nutrition &#38; Health 

Our Animal Nutrition &#38; Health (&#8220;ANH&#8221;) segment provides nutritional products derived from our microencapsulation and chelation technologies in addition to basic choline chloride. For ruminant animals, our microencapsulated products boost health and milk production, delivering nutrient supplements that are biologically available, providing required nutritional levels. Our proprietary chelation technology provides enhanced nutrient absorption for various species of production and companion animals and is marketed for use in animal feed throughout the world. ANH also manufactures and supplies choline chloride, an essential nutrient for monogastric animal health, predominantly to the poultry, pet and swine industries. Choline, which is manufactured and sold in both dry and aqueous forms, plays a vital role in the metabolism of fat. Choline deficiency can result in reduced growth and perosis in poultry, fatty liver, kidney necrosis and general poor health condition in swine.

Sales of specialty products for the animal nutrition and health industry are highly dependent on dairy industry economics as well as the ability of the Company to leverage the results of university and field research on the animal health benefits of the Company&#8217;s products. Management believes that success in the commodity-oriented basic choline chloride marketplace is highly dependent on the Company&#8217;s ability to maintain its strong reputation for excellent product quality and customer service. The Company continues to increase production efficiencies in order to maintain its competitive-cost position to effectively compete in a competitive global marketplace.

Specialty Products 

Our Specialty Products segment operates commercially as ARC Specialty Products.

Ethylene oxide, at the 100% level, is sold as a sterilant gas, primarily for use in the health care industry. It is used to sterilize a wide range of medical devices because of its versatility and effectiveness in treating hard or soft surfaces, composites, metals, tubing and different types of plastics without negatively impacting the performance of the device being sterilized. Our 100% ethylene oxide product is distributed in uniquely designed, recyclable, double-walled, stainless steel drums to assure compliance with safety, quality and environmental standards as outlined by the EPA and the DOT. Our inventory of these specially built drums, along with our two filling facilities, represents a significant capital investment. Contract sterilizers and medical device manufacturers are principal customers for this product. We also sell single use canisters with 

&#160;

100% ethylene oxide for use in sterilizing re-usable devices typically processed in autoclave units in hospitals. As a fumigant, ethylene oxide blends are highly effective in killing bacteria, fungi, and insects in spices and other seasoning materials.

&#160;

Propylene oxide is marketed and sold as a fumigant to aid in the control of insects and microbiological spoilage; and to reduce bacterial and mold contamination in certain shell and processed nut meats, processed spices, cacao beans, cocoa powder, raisins, figs and prunes. We distribute our propylene oxide product primarily in recyclable, single-walled, carbon steel cylinders according to standards outlined by the EPA and the DOT. Our inventory of these cylinders also represents a significant capital investment. Propylene oxide is also sold to customers seeking smaller (as opposed to bulk) quantities and whose requirements include utilization in various chemical synthesis applications, such as increasing paint durability and manufacturing specialty starches and textile coatings.

Industrial Products (formerly included in Animal Nutrition &#38; Health) 

Certain derivatives of choline chloride are manufactured and sold into industrial applications predominately as a component for hydraulic fracturing of shale natural gas wells. Our products offer an attractive, effective and more environmentally responsible alternative than other clay stabilizers. Industrial grade Choline Bicarbonate is completely chloride free and our Choline Chloride reduces the amount of chlorides released into the environment up to 75% when compared to Potassium Chloride. The Industrial Products segment also includes the manufacture and sale of methylamines. Methylamines are a primary building block for the manufacture of choline products and are produced at our Italian operation and sold for a wide range of industrial applications in Europe.

Acquisition of Albion International, Inc. 

On February 1, 2016, the Company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Albion International, Inc. (Albion), a privately held manufacturer of mineral amino acid chelates, specialized mineral salts and mineral complexes, headquartered in Clearfield, Utah. The Company made payments of approximately $116.4 million on the acquisition date, amounting to approximately $110.6 million to the former shareholders, adjustments for working capital acquired of $4.9 million, and approximately $0.9 million to Albion&#8217;s lenders to pay off all Albion bank debt. Albion has been a world leader and innovator in the manufacture of superior organic mineral compounds for sixty years and leverages scientific expertise in the areas of human and plant nutrition. Albion&#8217;s products are renowned in the supplement industry for technologically advanced, unparalleled bioavailability. The acquisition of Albion continues to expand the Company&#8217;s science based human health and wellness solutions and will immediately increase our product offerings in the nutritional ingredient market. Additionally, the Company will also benefit from a broader geographic footprint and a stronger position as a technological leader in spray-drying and ingredient delivery solutions. Albion&#8217;s human nutrition business will become a part of the SensoryEffects reportable segment and the plant nutrition business will become a part of the Specialty Products reportable segment.

Raw Materials 

The raw materials utilized by the Company in the manufacture of its products are sourced from suppliers both domestically and internationally. Such raw materials include materials derived from petrochemicals, minerals, metals, agricultural commodities and other readily available commodities and are subject to price fluctuations due to market conditions. The Company is not experiencing any current difficulties in procuring such materials and does not anticipate any such problems; however, we cannot assure that will always be the case.

&#160;

Intellectual Pr ope r ty 

The Company currently holds 16 patents in the United States and overseas and uses certain trade-names and trademarks. It also uses know-how, trade secrets, formulae, and manufacturing techniques that assist in

&#160;

maintaining competitive positions of certain of its products. Formulae and know-how are of particular importance in the manufacture of a number of the Company&#8217;s proprietary products. The Company believes that certain of its patents, in the aggregate, are advantageous to its business. However, it is believed that no single patent or related group of patents is currently so material to the Company that the expiration or termination of any single patent or group of patents would materially affect its business. Our U.S. patents expire between 2016 and 2024 . The Company believes that its sales and competitive position are dependent primarily upon the quality of its products, technical sales efforts and market conditions, rather than on patent protection.

Seasonality 

In general, the businesses of our segments are not seasonal to any material extent.

Backlog 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had a total backlog of $30,448,000 (including $20,947,000 for the SensoryEffects segment; $7,705,000 for the ANH segment; $753,000 for the Specialty Products segment and $1,043,000 for the Industrial Products segment), as compared to a total backlog of $38,798,000 at December 31, 2014 (including $23,703,000 for the SensoryEffects segment; $8,016,000 for the ANH segment; $699,000 for the Specialty Products segment and $6,380,000 for the Industrial Products segment). It has generally been the Company&#8217;s policy and practice to maintain an inventory of finished products and/or component materials for its segments to enable it to ship products within two months after receipt of a product order. All orders in the current backlog are expected to be filled in the 2016 fiscal year.

Competition 

Our competitors include many large and small companies, some of which have greater financial, research and development, production and other resources than the Company. Competition in the food and ingredient markets served by the Company is based primarily on product performance, customer support, quality, service and price. The development of new and improved products is important to the Company&#8217;s success. This competitive environment requires substantial investments in product and manufacturing process research and development. In addition, the winning and retention of customer acceptance of the Company&#8217;s food and nutrition products involve substantial expenditures for application testing, either internally or at customer/prospect sites, and sales efforts. Our competition in this market includes a variety of ingredient and nutritional supplement companies many of which are privately-held. Therefore, it is difficult to assess the size of all of our segment competitors or where we rank in comparison to such privately-held competitors.

Competition in the animal feed and industrial markets served by the Company is based primarily on quality, service and price. The markets for our products are subject to competitive risks because these markets are highly price competitive. Our competition in this market includes a variety of animal nutrition and health ingredient companies, along with certain industrial companies, many of which are privately-held. Therefore, we are unable to assess the size of all of our competitors or where we rank in comparison to such privately-held competitors .

In the Specialty Products segment, the Company&#8217;s products face competition from alternative sterilizing technologies and products. Competition in this marketplace is based primarily on medical device compositions, product performance, customer support, quality, service and price. Our competition in this market includes sterilization companies, a number of which are privately-held. Therefore, we are unable to assess the size of all of our competitors or where we rank in comparison to such privately-held competitors. We are focused on the North American market due to EPA, United States Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) and DOT regulations that are not yet required globally. 

&#160;

Research &#38; Development 

During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company incurred research and development expenses of approximately $6.0 million, $4.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, on Company-sponsored research and development for new products and improvements to existing products and manufacturing processes. At December 31, 2015, approximately 30 employees were devoted full time to research and development activities. The Company has historically funded its research and development programs with funds available from current operations with the intent of recovering those costs from profits derived from future sales of products resulting from, or enhanced by, the research and development effort.

The Company prioritizes its product development activities in an effort to allocate resources to those product candidates that, the Company believes, have the greatest commercial potential. Factors considered by the Company in determining the products to pursue include projected markets and needs, status of its proprietary rights, technical feasibility, expected and known product attributes, and estimated costs to bring the product to market.

Capital Projects 

The Company continues to invest in projects across all production facilities and capital expenditures were approximately $41.3 million, $13.2 million and $8.2 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In 2015 and 2014, respectively, capital expenditures of $11.5 million and $4.8 million were related to expanding the Company&#8217;s Animal Nutrition &#38; Health capacity in the manufacturing facility located in Verona, Missouri. Additionally, the Company invested $10.4 million in agglomeration production equipment during 2015. For 2013, $3.3 million of the capital expenditures were for the Company&#8217;s new manufacturing facility in Covington, Virginia. Capital expenditures are projected to range from $20.0 million to $30.0 million for 2016.

Environmental / Regulatory Matters 

The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (&#8220;FIFRA&#8221;), a health and safety statute, requires that certain products within our specialty products segment must be registered with the EPA because they are considered pesticides. In order to obtain a registration, an applicant typically must demonstrate, through extensive test data, that its product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment. We hold EPA registrations permitting us to sell ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and spice fumigant, and propylene oxide as a fumigant of nuts and spices.

With respect to the treatment of spices with ethylene oxide, the EPA allows the use of EO on the vast majority of spices. However, EPA prohibited its use for the treatment of basil, effective August 1, 2007, but allows the continuing use of ethylene oxide to treat all other spices, provided specific treatment parameters are used. During 2009, the EPA mandated that a toxicity study be performed on ethylene chlorohydrin, which is a &#8220;residue of concern&#8221;, according to the EPA. This study was financed by an industry trade association of which we are a member, and was submitted to the EPA in March 2012. In October 2015, the EPA issued a Data Evaluation Record accepting the ethylene chlorohydrin study.

In April 2008, the EPA issued a RED (&#8220;Reregistration Eligibility Decision&#8221;) for ethylene oxide which permitted the continued use of ethylene oxide &#8220;to sterilize medical or laboratory equipment, pharmaceuticals, and aseptic packaging, or to reduce microbial load on musical instruments, cosmetics, whole and ground spices and other seasoning materials and artifacts, archival material or library objects&#8221;. Currently, the EPA has initiated a new registration review of ethylene oxide, in line with and part of the registration review scheduled for a large number of other pesticides. A Final Work Plan was issued in March 2014. The EPA anticipates this review process will take approximately sever years. As part of the process, EPA has identified several potential additional testing requirements. The EPA and the registrants are in discussions regarding the additional testing. While some additional testing will be necessary, we believe that the use of ethylene oxide will continue to be permitted. The product, when used as a sterilant for certain medical devices, has no 

&#160;

known equally effective substitute. Management believes the lack of availability of this product could not be easily tolerated by various medical device manufacturers or the health care industry due to the resultant infection potential.

&#160;

Similarly, the EPA issued a RED for propylene oxide in August 2006. At that time, the EPA &#8220;determined that products containing the active ingredient PPO [propylene oxide] are eligible for reregistration provided that&#8230;risk mitigation measures&#8230;are adopted.&#8221; Our product label was amended as required to reflect these mitigation measures and also to show that propylene oxide has been reclassified as a restricted use pesticide. Currently, the EPA has initiated a new registration review of propylene oxide, in line with and part of the registration review scheduled for a large number of other pesticides. A Final Work Plan was issued in March 2014. The EPA anticipates this review process will take approximately seven years. As part of the process, the EPA has identified several potential additional testing requirements. The Company committed to conducting three additional studies, which have been completed and will be submitted for review shortly. The Company is currently in discussions with the EPA regarding other studies. While it is possible that we will be required to perform additional testing, we believe that the use of propylene oxide to treat nuts and spices will continue to be permitted.

The Company&#8217;s facility in Verona, Missouri, while held by a prior owner, was designated by the EPA as a Superfund site and placed on the National Priorities List in 1983, because of dioxin contamination on portions of the site. Remediation conducted by the prior owner under the oversight of the EPA and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (&#8220;MDNR&#8221;) included removal of dioxin contaminated soil and equipment, capping of areas of residual contamination in four relatively small areas of the site separate from the manufacturing facilities, and the installation of wells to monitor groundwater and surface water for contamination for certain organic chemicals. No ground water or surface water treatment has been required. In 1998, the EPA certified the work on the contaminated soils to be complete. In February 2000, after the conclusion of two years of monitoring groundwater and surface water, the former owner submitted a draft third party risk assessment report to the EPA and MDNR recommending no further action. The prior owner is awaiting the response of the EPA and MDNR to the draft risk assessment.

While the Company must maintain the integrity of the capped areas in the remediation areas on the site, the prior owner is responsible for completion of any further Superfund remedy. The Company is indemnified by the sellers under its May 2001 asset purchase agreement covering its acquisition of the Verona facility for potential liabilities associated with the Superfund site and one of the sellers, in turn, has the benefit of certain contractual indemnification by the prior owner that executed the above-described Superfund remedy.

In connection with normal operations at its plant facilities, the Company is required to maintain environmental and other permits, including those relating to the ethylene oxide operations.

The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with federal, state, local and international provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Such compliance includes the maintenance of required permits under air pollution regulations and compliance with requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The cost of such compliance has not had a material effect upon the results of operations or financial condition of the Company. In 1982, the Company discovered and thereafter removed a number of buried drums containing unidentified waste material from the Company&#8217;s site in Slate Hill, New York. The Company thereafter entered into a Consent Decree to evaluate the drum site with the New York Department of Environmental Conservation (&#8220;NYDEC&#8221;) and performed a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study that was approved by NYDEC in February 1994. Based on NYDEC requirements, the Company remediated the area and removed soil from the drum burial site. This proceeding has been substantially completed (see Item 3).

&#160;

In June 2011, we terminated our lease and ceased operations at a manufacturing facility in Channahon, Illinois, which had previously served as our pharmaceutical grade ingredient manufacturing facility, which was registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing facility. We will continue to produce products which 

&#160;

are required to be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practice (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;) regulations as interpreted and enforced by the FDA, but will do so through third party contract arrangement. Modifications, enhancements or changes in contracted manufacturing facilities or procedures relating to our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Any contracted manufacturing facilities that manufacture our pharmaceutical products are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory.

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, the Company employed approximately 875 persons. Approximately 90 employees at our Marano, Ticino, Italy facility are covered by a national collective bargaining agreement, which expires in 2017. Approximately 70 employees at the Company&#8217;s Verona, Missouri facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires in 2017.

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s headquarters is located at 52 Sunrise Park Road, New Hampton, NY 10958. The Company&#8217;s telephone number is (845) 326-5600 and its Internet website address is www.balchem.com. The Company makes available through its website, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports are available via a link from the Investor Relations page on the Company&#8217;s website to a list of the Company&#8217;s reports on the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s EDGAR website.

