 Item 1. Business 

Bel Fuse Inc. designs, manufactures and markets a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.

With over 65 years in operation, Bel has reliably demonstrated the ability to succeed in a variety of product areas across a global platform. The Company has a strong track record of technical innovation working with the engineering teams of market leaders. Bel has consistently proven itself a valuable supplier to the foremost companies in its chosen industries by developing cost-effective solutions for the challenges of new product development. By combining our strength in product design with our own specially-designed manufacturing facilities, Bel has established itself as a formidable competitor on a global basis.

The Company, which is organized under New Jersey law, operates in one industry with three reportable operating segments, North America, Asia and Europe (representing 54%, 33% and 13% of the Company's 2015 sales, respectively). Bel's principal executive offices are located at 206 Van Vorst Street, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302; (201) 432-0463. The Company operates facilities in North America, Europe and Asia and trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (BELFA and BELFB). For information regarding Bel's three geographic operating segments, see Note 12, "Segments", of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Hereinafter, all references to "Note" will refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of t his Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Acquisitions have played a critical role in the growth of Bel and the expansion of both our product portfolio and our customer base and continue to be a key element in our growth strategy. We may, from time to time, purchase equity positions in companies that are potential merger candidates. We frequently evaluate possible merger candidates that would provide an expanded product and technology base that will allow us to expand the breadth of our product offerings to our strategic customers and/or provide an opportunity to reduce overall operating expense as a percentage of revenue. We also consider whether the merger candidates are positioned to take advantage of our lower cost offshore manufacturing facilities, and whether a cultural fit will allow the acquired company to be integrated smoothly and efficiently.

2014 Acquisitions

On June 19, 2014, we completed our acquisition of the Power Solutions business of Power-One ("Power Solutions") from ABB Ltd. for $109.9 million, net of cash acquired. Power Solutions is a leading provider of high-efficiency and high-density power conversion products for server, storage and networking equipment, industrial applications and power systems. Power Solutions offers a premier line of standard, modified-standard and custom designed AC/DC, DC/DC and other specific power conversion products for a variety of technologies in data centers, telecommunications and industrial applications. The acquisition of Power Solutions brought a complementary, industry-leading power product portfolio to Bel's existing line of power solutions and protection products, expanded our current customer base in the areas of server, storage and networking equipment and added industrial and additional transportation applications to the Company's product offering.

On July 25, 2014, we completed our acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the U.S. and U.K. Connectivity Solutions businesses from Emerson Electric Co. ("Emerson"). On August 29, 2014, we completed our acquisition of the Connectivity Solutions business in China from Emerson (collectively with the U.S. and U.K. portion of the transaction, "Connectivity Solutions"). The Company paid a total of $98.8 million for Connectivity Solutions, net of cash acquired and including a working capital adjustment. Connectivity Solutions is a leading provider of high&#8209;performance RF/Microwave and Harsh Environment Optical Connectors and Assemblies for military, aerospace, wireless communications, data communications, broadcast and industrial applications. The acquisition of Connectivity Solutions enabled the Company to further expand into the aerospace and military markets where long-term product reliability resulting from highly engineered solutions is critical. The acquisition enhanced our position in the expanded beam fiber optic market place and significantly expanded our copper&#8209;based product offerings with the addition of RF/Microwave components and assemblies. 

The acquisitions of Power Solutions and Connectivity Solutions may hereafter be referred to collectively as either the "2014 Acquisitions" or the "2014 Acquired Companies".

2013 Acquisitions

On March 29, 2013, we completed our acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Transpower Technologies (HK) Limited ("Transpower") and certain other tangible and intangible assets related to the Transpower magnetics business of TE Connectivity ("TE") for $21.0 million, net of cash acquired. The operations acquired are now doing business as TRP Connector ("TRP"). Transpower is the sole shareholder of Dongguan Transpower Electronic Products Co., Ltd. in the People's Republic of China ("PRC"). The Company's purchase of the TRP magnetics business consisted of the integrated connector module ("ICM") family of products, including RJ45, 10/100 Gigabit, 10G, PoE/PoE+, MRJ21 and RJ.5, a line of modules for smart-grid applications, and discrete magnetics.

Return to Index 

On August 20, 2013, we completed our acquisition of Array, a manufacturer of aerospace and mil-spec connector products based in Miami, Florida, for $10.0 million in cash. The acquisition of Array expanded our portfolio of connector products and broadened our customer base for our other connector product offerings. Array has become part of Bel's interconnect product group under the Cinch Connectors business.

The acquisitions of TRP and Array may hereafter be referred to collectively as either the "2013 Acquisitions" or the "2013 Acquired Companies".

The 2013 Acquisitions and the 2014 Acquisitions were funded from cash on hand and/or borrowings.

Products 

Bel's three reportable operating segments, North America, Asia and Europe, sell, or participate in the sale of, the following products:

Magnetic Solutions 

Bel's Magnetics offers industry leading products. The Company's ICM products integrate RJ45 connectors with discrete magnetic components to provide a more robust part that allows customers to substantially reduce board space and inventory requirements. The Company's recent acquisition of the TE wire wound magnetics business broadens the ICM product line and provides access to strategically important customer programs. Power Transformers include standard and custom designs for use in industrial instrumentation, alarm and security systems, motion control, elevators, and medical products. All Power Transformers are designed to comply with international safety standards governing transformers. Bel's SMD Power Inductors include a selection of over 3,000 parts utilized in power supplies, DC-DC converters, LED lighting and other electronic applications. Discrete Components are magnetic devices that condition, filter and isolate the signal as it travels through network equipment, ensuring accurate data/voice/video transmission.

&#160; Product Line

Function

Applications

Brands Sold Under

Magnetic Solutions

Integrated Connector Modules (ICMs)

Condition, filter, and isolate the electronic signal to ensure accurate data/voice/video transmission and provide RJ45 and USB connectivity.

Network switches, routers, hubs, and PCs used in 10/100/1000 Gigabit Ethernet, Power over Ethernet (PoE), PoE Plus and home networking applications.

Bel, TRP, MagJack &#174; 

Power Transformers

Safety isolation and distribution.

Power supplies, alarm, fire detection, and security systems, HVAC, lighting and medical equipment. Class 2, three phase, chassis mount, and PC mount designs available.

Signal

SMD Power Inductors &#38; SMPS Transformers

A passive component that stores energy in a magnetic field. Widely used in analog electronic circuitry.

Switchmode power supplies, DC-DC converters, LED lighting, automotive and consumer electronics.

Signal

Discrete Components-Telecom

Condition, filter, and isolate the electronic signal to ensure accurate data/voice/video transmission.

Network switches, routers, hubs, and PCs used in 10/100/1000 Gigabit Ethernet and Power over Ethernet (PoE).

Bel

Return to Index 

Power Solutions &#38; Protection 

Bel's power conversion products include AC-DC power supplies, DC-DC converters and battery charging solutions. The DC-DC product offering consists of standard and custom isolated and non-isolated DC-DC converters designed specifically to power low voltage silicon devices or provide regulated mid-bus voltages. The need for converting one DC voltage to another is growing rapidly as developers of integrated circuits commonly adjust the supply voltage as a means of optimizing device performance. The DC-DC converters are used in data networking equipment, distributed power architecture, and telecommunication devices, as well as data storage systems, computers and peripherals. Opportunities for the DC-DC products also extend into industrial applications.

With the acquisition of the Power Solutions business from ABB in 2014, Bel's power solutions product portfolio, R&#38;D capabilities and customer base were significantly expanded. Already a leader in DC/DC board mount products, since 2014 Bel has offered a sizeable portfolio of AC/DC products with industry leading efficiency and power density. The acquisition of Power Solutions also added considerable presence in the railway market and broader industrial markets with Melcher branded products. The Melcher brand is well known for reliability and performance in demanding applications.

Bel circuit protection products include board level fuses (miniature, micro and surface mount), and Polymeric PTC (Positive Temperature Coefficient) devices, designed for the global electronic and telecommunication markets. Fuses and PTC devices prevent currents in an electrical circuit from exceeding certain predetermined levels, acting as a safety valve to protect expensive components from damage by cutting off high currents before they can generate enough heat to cause smoke or fire. Additionally, PTC devices are resettable and do not have to be replaced before normal operation of the end product can resume.

&#160; Product Line

Function

Applications

Brands Sold Under

Power Solutions &#38; Protection

Front-End Power Supplies

Provides the primary point of isolation between AC main line (input) and the low-voltage DC output that is used to power all electronics downstream

Servers, telecommunication, network and data storage equipment

Bel Power Solutions, Power-One

Board-Mount Power Products

These are designed to be mounted on a circuit board. These converters take input voltage and provide localized on-board power to low-voltage electronics.

Telecom (central office switches), networking and a broad range of industrial applications

Bel Power Solutions, Power-One, Melcher

Industrial Power Products

Converts between AC main line inputs and a wide variety of DC output voltages.

Rail, transportation, automation, test and measurement, medical, military and aerospace applications.

Bel Power Solutions, Power-One, Melcher

Module Products

Condition, filter, and isolate the electronic signal to ensure accurate data/voice/video transmission within a highly integrated, reduced footprint.

Broadband equipment, home networking, set top boxes, and telecom equipment supporting ISDN, T1/E1 and DSL technologies. Industrial applications include Smart Meters, Smart Grid communication platforms, vehicle communications and traffic management.

Bel

Circuit Protection

Protects devices by preventing current in an electrical circuit from exceeding acceptable levels.

Power supplies, cell phone chargers, consumer electronics, and battery protection.

Bel

Connectivity Solutions 

Bel offers a comprehensive line of high speed and harsh environment copper and optical fiber connectors and integrated assemblies, which provide connectivity for a wide range of applications across multiple industries including commercial aerospace, military communications, network infrastructure, structured building cabling and several industrial applications. Bel's Stewart Connector business designs and deploys modular connector systems primarily used in high speed Telecom/Datacom applications. In January 2010, Bel completed the acquisition of Cinch Connectors. Cinch products are designed and manufactured for high reliablity/harsh enviroment applications. Cinch also possesses various enabling technologies and expertise with which to provide custom solutions and products. In 2012, the acquistions of Fiberco and GigaCom further enhanced the Cinch product offering with the addition of fiber optic connector and cable products optomized for harsh envirment applications. In 2013, the acquisition of Array further broadened the copper based product portfolio and expanded sales within the aerospace market. The acquisition of Connectivity Solutions in 2014 brought additional products and has strengthened our position with strategic OEM customers in the military, aerospace and networking segments. Connectivity Solutions is a leading innovator and producer of RF coaxial connectors and cables, harsh environment optical active and passive devices, and microwave components.

Return to Index 

&#160; Product Line

Function

Applications

Brands Sold Under

Connectivity Solutions

Expanded Beam Fiber Optic Connectors, Cable Assemblies and Active Optical Devices (transceivers and media converters)

Harsh-environment, high-reliability, flight-grade optical connectivity for high-speed communications.

Military/aerospace, oil and gas well monitoring and exploration, broadcast, communications, RADAR

Stratos, Fibreco

Copper-based Connectors / Cable Assemblies-FQIS

Harsh-environment, high-reliability connectivity and fuel quantity monitoring (FQIS).

Commercial aerospace, avionics, smart munitions, communications, navigations and various industrial equipment

Cinch

RF Connectors, Cable Assemblies, Microwave Devices and Low Loss Cable

Connectors and cable assemblies designed to provide connectivity within radio frequency (RF) applications.

Military/aerospace, test and measurement, high-frequency and wireless communications

Johnson, Trompeter, Midwest Microwave, Semflex

RJ Connectors and Cable Assemblies

RJ45 and RJ11 connectivity for data/voice/video transmission.

Largely Ethernet applications including network routers, hubs, switches, and patch panels.

Stewart Connector

Sales and Marketing 

We sell our products to customers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Sales are made through one of three channels: direct strategic account managers, regional sales managers working with independent sales representative organizations or authorized distributors. Bel's strategic account managers are assigned to handle major accounts requiring global coordination.

Independent sales representatives and authorized distributors are overseen by the Company's sales management personnel located throughout the world. As of December 31, 2015, we had a sales and support staff of 233 persons that supported a network of sales representative organizations and non-exclusive distributors. We have written agreements with all of our sales representative organizations and most of our major distributors. These written agreements, terminable on short notice by either party, are standard in the industry. 

Sales support functions have also been established and located in our international facilities to provide timely, efficient support for customers. This supplemental level of service, in addition to first-line sales support, enables us to be more responsive to customers ' needs on a global level. Our marketing capabilities include product management which drives new product development, application engineering for technical support and marketing communications. 

For information regarding customer concentrations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters &#8211; Revenue Recognition."

Research and Development ("R&#38;D") 

Our engineering groups are strategically located around the world to facilitate communication with and access to customers' engineering personnel. This collaborative approach enables partnerships with customers for technical development efforts. On occasion, we execute non-disclosure agreements with customers to help develop proprietary, next generation products destined for rapid deployment.

We also sponsor membership in technical organizations that allow our engineers to participate in developing standards for emerging technologies. It is management's opinion that this participation is critical in establishing credibility and a reputable level of expertise in the marketplace, as well as positioning the Company as an industry leader in new product development.

R&#38;D costs are expensed as incurred and are included in cost of sales on the consolidated statements of operations. Generally, R&#38;D is performed internally for the benefit of the Company. R&#38;D costs include salaries, building maintenance and utilities, rents, materials, administration costs and miscellaneous other items. R&#38;D expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 amounted to $27.7 million, $21.5 million and $14.1 million, respectively.

Competition 

We operate in a variety of markets, all of which are highly competitive. There are numerous independent companies and divisions of major companies that manufacture products that are competitive with one or more of our products.

Our ability to compete is dependent upon several factors including product performance, quality, reliability, depth of product line, customer service, technological innovation, design, delivery time and price. Overall financial stability and global presence also give us a favorable position in relation to many of our competitors. Management intends to maintain a strong competitive posture in the markets we serve by continued expansion of our product lines and ongoing investment in research, development and manufacturing resources.

Return to Index 

Associates 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 7,971 full-time associates, a decrease of 239 full-time associates from December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2015, we employed 1,487 people at our North American facilities, 5,624 people at our Asian facilities and 860 people at our European facilities, excluding approximately 1,455 workers supplied by independent contractors. Our manufacturing facility in New York is represented by a labor union and all factory workers in the PRC, Worksop, England and Reynosa, Mexico are represented by unions. While the majority of our manufacturing associates are members of workers unions, approximately 471 associates worldwide are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring within one year. We believe that our relations with our associates are sa tisfactory. 

Raw Materials and Sourcing 

We have multiple suppliers for most of the raw materials that we purchase. Where possible, we have contractual agreements with suppliers to assure a continuing supply of critical components.

With respect to those items which are purchased from single sources, we believe that comparable items would be available in the event that there was a termination of our existing business relationships with any such supplier. While such a termination could produce a disruption in production, we believe that the termination of business with any one of our suppliers would not have a material adverse effect on our long-term operations. Actual experience could differ materially from this belief as a result of a number of factors, including the time required to locate an alternative supplier, and the nature of the demand for our products. In the past, we have experienced shortages in certain raw materials, such as capacitors, ferrites and integrated circuits ("IC's"), when these materials were in great demand. Even though we may have more than one supplier for certain materials, it is possible that these materials may not be available to us in sufficient quantities or at the times desired by us. In the event that the current economic conditions have a negative impact on the financial condition of our suppliers, this may impact the availability and cost of our raw materials.

Backlog 

We typically manufacture products against firm orders and projected usage by customers. Cancellation and return arrangements are either negotiated by us on a transactional basis or contractually determined. We estimate the value of the backlog of orders as of February 29, 2016 to be approximately $126.1 million as compared with a backlog of $150.4 million as of February 28, 2015. Management expects that substantially all of the Company's backlog as of February 29, 2016 will be shipped by December 31, 2016. Factors that could cause the Company to fail to ship all such orders by year-end include unanticipated supply difficulties, changes in customer demand and new customer designs. Due to these factors, backlog may not be a reliable indicator of the timing of future sales. See Item 1A of this Annual Report - "Risk Factors - Our backlog figures may not be reliable indicators." 

Intellectual Property 

We have acquired or been granted a number of patents in the U.S., Europe and Asia and have additional patent applications pending relating to our products. While we believe that the issued patents are defendable and that the pending patent applications relate to patentable inventions, there can be no assurance that a patent will be obtained from the applications or that our existing patents can be successfully defended. It is management's opinion that the successful continuation and operation of our business does not depend upon the ownership of patents or the granting of pending patent applications, but upon the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing and managerial abilities of our personnel. Our U.S. design patents have a life of 14 years and our U.S. utility patents have a life of 17 years from the date of issue or 20 years from filing of patent applications. Our existing patents expire on various dates from June 2016 to April 2033.

We utilize registered trademarks in the U.S., Europe and Asia to identify various products that we manufacture. The trademarks survive as long as they are in use and the registrations of these trademarks are renewed.

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.belfuse.com where we make available the proxy statements, press releases, registration statements and reports on Forms 3, 4, 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q that we and our insiders file with the SEC. These forms are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Press releases are also issued via electronic transmission to provide access to our financial and product news, and we provide notification of and access to voice and internet broadcasts of our quarterly and annual results. Our website also includes investor presentations and corporate governance materials.

Return to Index 

