 Item 1. Business 

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &#147;may&#148;, &#147;should&#148;, &#147;expects&#148;, &#147;plans&#148;, &#147;anticipates&#148;, &#147;believes&#148;, &#147;estimates&#148;, &#147;predicts&#148;, &#147;potential&#148; or &#147;continue&#148; or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled &#147;Risk Factors&#148;, which may cause our or our industry&#146;s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. 

Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. All references &#147;common shares&#148; refer to the common shares in our capital stock. 

As used in this annual report, the terms &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our&#148; and &#147;our company&#148;, mean MJP International Ltd. and our wholly owned subsidiaries, MJP Lightings Solutions Ltd., a British Virgin Islands corporation and MJP Holdings Ltd., an Alberta, Canada corporation. 

General Overview 

Our company was incorporated in the State of Nevada on October 24, 2012. We are a development stage company, having entered into the development stage on October 24, 2012. Founded in Calgary, Canada, we aim to capitalize on new opportunities found in the North American market for light-emitting diode (&#147;LED&#148;) lighting. With China as the manufacturing backbone of future LED products, we have set up office in Guangzhou, China in search of high quality products offered by reputable manufacturers to be introduced to Canada, the United States, and abroad. Our president, chief executive officer and director, Chris Tong Tang spends more than 50% of his time in the Southern China region, including Guangzhou and Hong Kong. While there, he operates from our Guangzhou office. In addition to seeing suppliers and sourcing and inspecting products at factories, he is also actively seeking to develop a market for our products in that region. 

Our executive offices are located at Suite 2806, 505 - 6th Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 1X5. Our telephone number is (403) 237 &#150; 8330.

Current Business 

On December 10, 2012, we entered into a share exchange agreement with MJP Lighting Solutions Ltd. and the shareholders of MJP Lighting Solutions pursuant to which we acquired MJP Lighting Solutions and MJP Holdings Ltd., as our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result of the acquisition, we issued 12,000,000 shares of common stock in exchange for 100% of the outstanding common shares of MJP Lighting Solutions and MJP Holdings. 

MJP Lighting Solutions, a British Virgin Islands company, with its main office located in Hong Kong, was incorporated in October 31, 2012. MJP Lighting Solutions operated through its then wholly owned subsidiary, MJP Holdings, of Alberta, Canada. MJP Holdings was incorporated on July 19, 2010 under the laws of the province of Alberta, Canada. MJP Holdings specializes in the sale and distribution of LED lighting and technology solutions. 

On January 1, 2012 we received a letter of authorization from Gysun Opto-Electronic Co. Ltd. pursuant to which we were designated as an authorized dealer in Canada for all LED products produced by Gysun Opto-Electronic. The letter of authorization entitles us to market and distribute products of Gysun Opto-Electronic in Canada. All purchase orders made by us are negotiated and determined on a case by case basis. The letter of authorization has no fixed term and is valid until revoked.

Products and Services 

Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs) 

Light-emitting diode, commonly known as LED, is a solid-state semiconductor technology that is rapidly gaining momentum in the lighting industry. Early market for LEDs was driven by specific niche markets, mainly backlighting, that optimized on the products&#146; coloured light and small package size. From backlighting, the product slowly made inroads into the automotive industry. Today, the focus of the industry has largely been shifted towards general lighting. LED applications are evolving quickly into viable sources for general illumination as they promise many benefits over conventional lighting. Within the past few years, LED technology has improved significantly with respect to brightness, energy efficiency, and colour quality and consistency. Branded as a disruptive technology, LED has played a tremendous role in revolutionizing the lighting industry. LEDs have the following attributes: 

Efficiency . LEDs have exceptionally high theoretical energy efficiency. They can produce much higher lumen per watt than conventional technologies, thus providing energy savings up to 50 to 70%. Lifespan . The materials used in making LEDs are inherently stable. High quality LEDs may last for 50,000 to 100,000 hours or more. Unlike conventional lighting technologies, lifespan of an LED is unaffected by rapid cycling, its lifespan actually increases when the average current flowing through it is reduced. Controllability . LEDs have superior control over light colour, intensity, and direction. Newer white LEDs bring the potential to illuminate public spaces, homes and offices with light that mimics daylight. The controllability of LED- generated light enables intelligent light systems, making them better suited to smart controls than any previous light technology. Durability . LEDs are extremely durable; and are resistant to vibration, mechanical stress, and extreme weather conditions whereby conventional lighting solutions are at a disadvantage. Environmentally Friendly . LEDs do not contain toxic materials such as mercury, a necessary component of fluorescent bulbs. Today&#146;s LEDs boast many benefits over conventional technologies. In addition to the many objective advantages mentioned above, they also provide social benefits that play an important role in enhancing human emotions, motivation, abilities, health, and perception of public safety. 

MJP International&#146;s LED Products 

Through our Canadian subsidiary, MJP Holdings, we currently sell LED products in Canada primarily to retail clients (end users) or through agents. To date, the majority of our products sold in Canada have been sold through two independent agents, ECCOS Lifestyle Ltd. and PSL Enterprises Ltd., both of Calgary, Alberta. In June, 2013, through our wholly owned British Virgin Island subsidiary, MJP Lighting Solutions, we made a sale to an end user in Hong Kong. Our company has established relationships with and has purchased most of our products from two suppliers in Southern China, Gysun Opto-Electronic Co. Ltd. and Odin Optoelectronics Technology Co., Limited. To date, our sales have consisted primarily of LED tube lights, LED PAR (parabolic aluminized reflector) lamps for spot lights, and LED down lights. These products are certified for sale in North America with UL&#174; (Underwriters Laboratories) or CSA&#174; (Canadian Standards Association). All of these products have numerous applications in both commercial and residential structures and offer a number of benefits over both incandescent and fluorescent lighting products. 

PAR Series 

The LED PAR Series bulb is a replacement bulb for traditional PAR 30/38 lamps, where typically halogen bulbs are used. Diameter and length are identical to traditional lighting products; however, the mid-section is wider to allow necessary thermal management. Normally this difference is accommodated by the standard fixtures. The LED bulb is available with either a spot or wide beam lens and can be used in recessed, track and pendant lighting. Traditionally, the PAR light series has two product alternatives: halogen lamps and compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs). LED PAR Series are superior in many ways over these two product alternatives. Both the halogen and CFL bulbs operate at higher wattages resulting in higher yearly power consumption and heat emissions. Furthermore, halogen and CFL lighting products are also deficient in luminosity (light intensity) and longevity. 

Down Light 

The LED Down Light series is a complete lighting fixture with bulb and installation housing. The model has three variations: recessed, narrow spot, and wide beam; allowing for a wide range of applications. The LED Down Light series&#146; lack of heat output and spot capabilities make this product ideal for display lighting. However the fixtures can also be used in any commercial office space or residential dwelling. 

The Down Light series bulb is superior in many ways over the halogen and CFL lighting products. However, a feature that truly sets the LED Down Light product apart from its alternatives is that the bulb is available in both a wide and narrow beam model; allowing the product a greater amount of versatility over alternative lighting products. 

Tube Series 

The LED Tube series products are designed to replace fluorescent lamps and fit into existing light fixtures. The new LED lighting products are easy to install and require only some minor wiring adjustments, which includes removing the now obsolete ballasts. As well, the LED Tube series pins can be configured for horizontal or vertical lighting and are available in either clear or frosted lenses. 

The LED Tube series contains many advantages over traditional fluorescent tube lighting. Overall product performance is far superior; they are capable of starting at much colder temperatures, and do not flicker or hum like traditional fluorescent tubes tend to do. Quality of light is also much better, and both wattage and yearly power consumption is much lower. LED Tube series products also do not require a ballast like traditional fluorescent tubes do, and last significantly longer resulting in a substantial decrease in installation and maintenance costs. 

Product Sourcing 

China is currently the largest LED light production base in the world, with over 2,200 manufacturers producing LED devices, packages, and luminaires. The country is in a strong position to capitalize on new opportunities in the lighting market due to its growing prowess in technological innovation and research and development coupled with its existing manufacturing and production capabilities. High price of LEDs is often cited as the barrier to the mass adoption of LED lighting, China&#146;s cost advantage over North America and Europe could be the key to accelerating LED adoption. 

With that in mind, our company has set up a branch operating office in Guangzhou, China dedicated to the finding of quality manufacturers whose products are with UL and CSA authentication and are eligible to enter into the North American market. Our products are currently sourced through a number of different manufacturers. Basing our company&#146;s sourcing component in China allows our company to maintain good working relationships with each of our suppliers to ensure the delivery of quality products and to stay informed with the industry&#146;s latest product offerings and technological updates. To date, we have purchased most of our products from two suppliers in Southern China, Gysun Opto-Electronic Co. Ltd. and Odin Optoelectronics Technology Co., Limited. 

Sales, Distribution, and Fulfillment 

We do not maintain an inventory of products. Instead, we place factory order once customer orders are secured. Wholesale prices are negotiated on a case by case basis, as are our resale prices, which typically incorporate a markup of 15% to 30% from the factory wholesale price. Typically, all payments are due upon delivery. For large order, a deposit of 30% is required. We either receive payments directly from customers or from our agents. For small orders, products will be shipped from China to our Company&#146;s office and then shipped to the client. For large orders, products will generally be shipped directly from China to the client. 

Market 

Worldwide, the lighting market is forecasted to expand to US$160 billion by 2020, largely driven by the growth in demand for LEDs as their prices decline. LEDs are expected to fall in price by more than 80% and reach a global penetration of around 60% across all lighting applications over the next eight years. With less than 10% market penetration in 2010 and even less than 1% in the residential sector, LEDs market share is likely to accelerate over the next decade. 

In 2011, the global lighting market was estimated at US$94 to $110 billion, with general lighting products accounting for 75% share of the total lighting market. Residential remains the largest market segment, with over 40% market share of the total general lighting market, followed by office and outdoor with market share of over 10% each. 

At present, North America&#146;s LED market share is estimated at around 7%. This market is currently led by the new fixture installation market, especially in the non-residential segment, supported by several government initiatives. LED market share is likely to increase as the price of LED lighting goes down, even in the residential and light source replacement segments. These factors will accelerate LED market share in North America, which is expected to rise to over 45% in 2016 and around 70% in 2020 on a value basis, including both new fixture installation and light source replacement. 

Market Trends and Drivers 

There is a growing global focus on creating energy efficient alternatives for all electrical devices. Both businesses and individual consumers are becoming increasingly aware of how inefficient many existing lighting products are, and have begun to look for more efficient forms of lighting. LED technology is helping to drive product choices in terms of energy efficiency and life-span advancements, and has the potential to replace all other forms of lighting technology. 

Government 

Due to the establishment of international protocol restricting greenhouse emissions and mounting pressure from special interest groups, there have been numerous efforts by all levels of government to reduce carbon emissions. Many European countries have effectively banned the sale and use of incandescent bulbs due to their inefficient qualities. This movement to ban inefficient bulbs is spreading to North America as well. The Canadian federal government banned the import of 75- and 100-watt incandescent bulbs from 1 January 2014. On 31 December 2014 the import of 40- and 60-watt incandescent bulbs will also be banned in Canada. In the U.S., the State of California will phase out the use of incandescent bulbs by 2018. Similar legislation has been proposed in other U.S. states, and federal legislation has been introduced (but not implemented) to curb the use of incandescent lighting. Generally, where restrictions are implemented, retailers will be allowed to sell their existing inventories before the bans, and create a much greater demand for LED lighting products. 

In addition to the banning of incandescent bulbs, governments across the globe are granting subsidies to businesses and households for using energy-efficient LED lamps. Governments are shaping and stimulating the LED market with technical standardization and labeling, market aggregation and subsidies, and government testing labs. Supportive government policy will continue to be a critical driver of the LED lighting market as they become prime movers in propelling market demand. 

Urbanization 

Global population growth and urbanization are increasing the overall demand for lighting products. Cities today consume 70% of the world&#146;s energy supply. Exponential urban growth is expected over the next decade which contributes to an ever growing demand for energy. Increased demand for energy translates to rising energy prices. Widespread adoption of LED lighting will lead to a 40% cut in energy consumption, amounting to a saving of US$53 billion in annual energy costs. Furthermore, the cost of LEDs has decreased substantially over the past decade. Prices are expected to continue their decline over the next few years as demand and production ramp up. With the continual reduction in pricing as LEDs achieve economies of scale, consumers will be more inclined to transition to the energy efficient lighting solution. 

Environment 

Scarce resources and climate change are now two of the world&#146;s greatest environmental concerns. &#147;Going Green&#148; and &#147;Reducing Your Carbon Footprint&#148; have become common phrases in today&#146;s society. People, cities, and countries are all beginning to adopt more efficient technologies in order to reduce carbon emissions. Almost one-fifth of today&#146;s global electricity is used for lighting, which accounts for 1.9 billion tons, or roughly 6% of carbon dioxide emission. 

Given their capacity to achieve substantial emissions cuts and their continual improvement in economics, LEDs are one of the most important technologies for cutting carbon emissions in the early 21st century. The adoption of LED will bring about 40% in energy savings across the whole lighting market, reaching at least 670 million tons of emissions savings every year. 

Technology 

The illumination/lighting industry has changed greatly in the last decade with the introduction of compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) as the new energy solution to incandescent bulbs. The appeal of CFLs was energy efficiency and longevity. However, LEDs were always looked at as the logical next step in illumination technology. Due to recent advances in LED illumination technology it has now become feasible to apply this technology in residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial buildings, and facilities. Until recently LEDs were unable to produce sufficient lumens to replace traditional lighting products, but today LED technology has grown by leaps and bounds, and is expected to eventually replace all current forms of lighting products. 

Market Segmentation 

As a distributor of LED products, our company aims to establish a customer base consisting of a range of purchasers, including end users, wholesalers, construction and design contractors, and retailers. To date, we have solicited purchasers for our products both directly, through the sales efforts of our management, and indirectly, through two independent agents, ECCOS Lifestyle Ltd. and PSL Enterprises Ltd., both of Calgary, Alberta. In each case, we consult with purchasers, ascertain their product requirements, and consult with manufacturers to identify and supply suitable products. Due to LED being a new lighting product and the high initial cost to the client there is a great deal of customer relationship management required in order to assure the client that they are making the right decision. 

We have identified several potential barriers in place when approaching new customers. Prospective customers may be in long term contracts with either a wholesaler or distributor for alternative lighting products, or have in place a maintenance firm that replaces light fixtures with alternative products. Another potential barrier to the market is product cost. The initial cost of LED products is higher than traditional illumination solutions. However, the installation, operations, and maintenance costs are significantly lower, resulting in an overall savings to the customer. In order to effectively penetrate the illumination industry, these barriers must be appropriately addressed. 

To date our sales have been made primarily to end users and wholesalers. The following is a description of our customer base. 

End Users 

End users consist of customers with high usage rates, and include: municipalities, airports, railway lines, hospitals, post-secondary institutions, and large property owners. These potential clients are either looking to replace current illumination systems or to install light fixtures in a current construction project. End users can potentially deal directly with a product distributor or with a middle man such as an electrical wholesaler. 

Wholesalers 

Electrical wholesalers supply electrical contractors with the required materials for construction or renovation projects. Wholesalers act as a middleman in the distribution chain, and decide which products to hold in stock depending on client demand and the company&#146;s relationships with manufacturers. Wholesalers make purchases in large quantities and carry stock of frequently sold items. These companies will fill a customer&#146;s order by either taking out stock on hand or, by placing an order with a distributor for the size of the customer&#146;s order. 

Contractors 

Contractors are contracted by end users to draw up blue prints for new projects and specify what type of lighting is to be installed. With regards to the distribution chain, contractors usually do not directly purchase any electrical or illumination products, but instead purchase through wholesalers. 

Retailers 

Retailers vary in size from single location lighting stores to nationwide home building supply stores. These companies&#146; clients are individual home owners who may require lighting for a new home or renovation, or simply to replace a worn out lighting product. The quantity of stock held by a retail store varies by company; smaller retailer stores purchase stock on an ad hoc basis; whereas large retailers may have annually contracts with minimum purchase quantities. 

Inventory 

We do not currently maintain an inventory of products and do not anticipate doing so in the future. Instead, we employ just-in-time (JIT) inventory management, essentially eliminating any need for a warehouse. Each transaction will be negotiated according to the requests and specifications of individual client. Samples of all of our company&#146;s products will be on hand to provide to the agents and the clients as required. In the long run, our company will establish a good relationship with a reputable logistics company in hopes of reducing cost and achieving seamless and reliable delivery of products to the local market. 

Employees 

Currently we do not have any employees. Our president, chief executive officer and director, Chris Tong Tang, provides his services as a consultant to our company on a part-time basis for approximately 20 hours per week. Our secretary, treasurer, and director, Allan Y.L. Fung provides his services as a consultant to our company on a part-time basis for approximately 10 hours per week. Our officers and directors provide services to our business on a consulting basis in order to eliminate overhead costs that we would be required to incur upon the engagement of employees, including employment insurance and workers compensation premiums. We also currently engage one contractor, Mr. Alan Chan, a shareholder and consultant of our company, to provide administrative support services on a part-time basis for approximately 5 hours per week. We do not expect any material changes in the number of employees over the next 12 month period and will continue to outsource contract employment as needed. 

Competitive Business Conditions 

Competition in the newly emerging LED illumination industry is quite strong and there are numerous competitors offering both LED illumination products as well as alternative illumination products such as CFLs. There are a number of companies already active in the sale and distribution of LED illumination products that are substantially larger and better funded than we are and that have significantly longer histories in the respective marketplace. Our principal competitors all have greater financial, technical, managerial, and marketing resources than we have. 

Companies providing the same product or alternative products are not the only competitive factor in the emerging LED illumination industry. LED illumination technology can be described as a destructive industry. Due to the exceptionally long life span of LED products, there will be a major reduction in maintenance cost for commercial buildings and transportation services. As a result LED distributors may experience market resistance from outside pressures, such as labour unions who may feel their jobs are being threatened. 

Currently, there are a number of companies establishing LED illumination products manufacturing facilities in China. This is mainly due to the relatively cheap labour force and a well-established supply chain system within the country. Mexico is currently a strong exporter to the North American lighting industry but is gradually losing market share to China. As well, many production facilities in Europe and the United States have already shut down. Philips, OSRAM, and General Electric are currently closing down plants, and will potentially cease operations entirely within the United States. 

Key Competitors 

The LED illumination industry is comprised of many players. However, there are four dominant multinational players who maintain well established brands, distribution networks, and client relationships. 

Philips Lumileds: One of the leading manufacturers of high-power LEDs, Philips has many advanced LED manufacturing and operations facilities which stretch across the globe and is dedicated to increasing the adoption of solid-state illumination solutions. Over the last few years, Philips Lumileds has introduced numerous LED products. The company also supplies core LED material, such as chips and WAFER technology as well as LED packaging, and manufactures billions of LEDs annually. 

OSRAM Sylvania: One of the largest manufacturers of lighting products in the world, selling products in more than 150 countries. OSRAM makes Sylvania and OSRAM branded lighting products, including LEDs, for residential and commercial applications. OSRAM&#146;s Opto-Semiconductors division creates high performance LEDs, and is involved in lighting research, product designs, and builds electronic control systems used to make lighting products. 

General Electric (GE): A mega-corporation that includes technology, media, and financial services operations. GE is a leader in innovation; the company&#146;s products have dominated the North American market for decades. However, they appear to be taking a secondary role in energy efficient lighting technology. This lag may be due to the company&#146;s short-lived venture into high efficient incandescent light. 

CREE: Originally an exclusively WAFER manufacturer, now has a LED lighting division which has provided Cree with key retrofit technologies that convert existing lighting fixtures to energy-efficient lighting, and thereby accelerate the adoption of LED lighting in the general illumination market. 

Although there are some trends towards consolidation, the general lighting fixture market remains largely regionally segregated and fragmented. Local market access in the lighting fixture industry is therefore important. Our company will establish a presence in the Calgary market while at the same time maintaining strategic relationships with manufacturers in China. By conducting our company&#146;s product souring in China, MJP aims to position itself at the forefront of this emerging competitive strategy. 

Subsidiaries 

We have two wholly owned subsidiaries, MJP Lighting Solutions Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company, incorporated on October 31, 2012, and MJP Holdings Ltd., an Alberta (Canada) corporation incorporated on July 19, 2010. 

Intellectual Property 

We assert common law trademark rights in the province of Alberta for the names &#147;MJP&#148;, &#147;MJP International&#148;, and &#147;MJP Lighting Solutions&#148; in the field of lighting. Common law trademark rights are enforceable in provincial courts in Canada, and may be asserted against those who appropriate, dilute or damage the goodwill of our business by using the same or similar trade-names or trademarks. Unlike statutory trademark rights, which are acquired by registration and provide nation-wide protection, common law trademark rights are acquired automatically and provide protection only in the jurisdiction where a business uses a name or logo in commerce. We intend to rely on common law trademark protection until such time as we deem it economical for our business to register our trade-names or trademarks. 

We have not registered for the protection of any rights under trademark, patent, or copyright in any jurisdiction. 

Amount Spent on Research and Development the Last Two Fiscal Years 

We have not spent any money during each of the last two fiscal years on research and development activities. 

