 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Founded in 1952 and incorporated in 1957, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. (referred to in this report as &#8220;Bio-Rad,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221;) was initially engaged in the development and production of specialty chemicals used in biochemical, pharmaceutical and other life science research applications. We entered the field of clinical diagnostics with the development of our first test kit based on separation techniques and materials developed for life science research. Through internal research and development efforts and acquisitions we have expanded into various markets. Today, Bio-Rad manufactures and supplies the life science research, healthcare, analytical chemistry and other markets with a broad range of products and systems used to separate complex chemical and biological materials and to identify, analyze and purify their components. 

As we broadened our product lines, we also expanded our geographical market. We have direct distribution channels in over 30 &#32;countries outside the United States through subsidiaries whose focus is sales, customer service and product distribution. In some regions, sales efforts are supplemented by distributors and agents. 

Description of Business 

Business Segments 

Today, Bio-Rad operates in two industry segments designated as Life Science and Clinical Diagnostics. Both segments operate worldwide. Our Life Science segment and our Clinical Diagnostics segment generated 34% &#32;and 65% , respectively, of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 . We generated approximately 36% &#32;of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;from U.S. sales and approximately 64% &#32;from sales in our remaining worldwide markets. 

For a description of business and financial information on industry and geographic segments, see Note 14 of Item 8 of Part II of this report. 

Life Science Segment 

Our Life Science segment is at the forefront of discovery, creating advanced tools to answer complex biological questions. We are a leader in the life sciences market and develop, manufacture and market a range of more than 5,000 reagents, apparatus and laboratory instruments that serve a global customer base. Many of our products are used in established research techniques, biopharmaceutical production processes and food testing regimes. These 

techniques are typically used to separate, purify and identify biological materials such as proteins, nucleic acids and bacteria within a laboratory or production setting. We focus on selected segments of the life sciences market in proteomics (the study of proteins), genomics (the study of genes), biopharmaceutical production, cell biology and food safety. We estimate that the worldwide market for products in these selected segments was approximately $8 billion. Our principal life science customers include universities and medical schools, industrial research organizations, government agencies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, biotechnology researchers, food producers and food testing laboratories. 

Clinical Diagnostics Segment 

Our Clinical Diagnostics segment designs, manufactures, sells and supports test systems, informatics systems, test kits and specialized quality controls that serve clinical laboratories in the global diagnostics market. Our products currently address specific niches within the in vitro diagnostics (IVD) test market, and we seek to focus on the higher margin, higher growth segments of this market. 

We supply more than 3,000 different products that cover more than 300 clinical diagnostic tests to the IVD test market. We estimate that the worldwide sales for products in the markets we serve were approximately $10 billion. IVD tests are conducted outside the human body and are used to identify and measure substances in a patient&#8217;s tissue, blood or urine. Our products consist of reagents, instruments and software, typically provided to our customers as an integrated package to allow them to generate reproducible test results. Revenue in this business is highly recurring, as laboratories typically standardize test methodologies, which are dependent on a particular supplier&#8217;s equipment, reagents and consumable products. An installed base of diagnostic test systems therefore typically creates an ongoing source of revenue through the sale of test kits for each sample analyzed on an installed system. Our principal clinical diagnostic customers include hospital laboratories, reference laboratories, transfusion laboratories and physician office laboratories. 

Raw Materials and Components 

We utilize a wide variety of chemicals, biological materials, electronic components, machined metal parts, optical parts, computing and peripheral devices. Most of these materials and components are available from numerous sources, and generally we have not experienced difficulty in securing adequate supplies. However, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. Due to the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 

We own numerous U.S. and international patents and trademarks. We also pay royalties on the sales of certain products under several patent license agreements. We view these patents, trademarks and license agreements as valuable assets; however, we believe that our ability to develop and manufacture our products depends primarily on our knowledge, technology and special skills rather than our patent, trademark and licensing positions. 

Seasonal Operations and Backlog 

Our business is not inherently seasonal. However, the European custom of concentrating vacation during the summer months usually tempers third quarter sales volume and operating income. 

For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs. Management has concluded that backlog information is not material to our business as a whole. 

Sales and Marketing 

We conduct our worldwide operations through an extensive direct sales force and service network, employing approximately 740 &#32;sales and service people around the world. Our sales force typically consists of experienced industry practitioners with scientific training, and we maintain a separate specialist sales force for each of our segments. We believe that this direct sales approach allows us to sell a broader range of our products and have more direct contact with our customers. 

We also use a range of sales and marketing intermediaries (SMIs) in our international markets, excluding Western Europe and Canada. The types of SMIs we utilize are distributors, agents, brokers and resellers. We have programs and policies in place with our SMIs that require compliance with all applicable laws, including adhering to our anti-corruption standards to ensure a transparent sale to our customers. 

Our customer base is broad and diversified. Our worldwide customer base includes (1) prominent university and research institutions, providing us access to more than 150,000 scientists in the United States alone; (2) hospital, public health and commercial laboratories; (3) other leading diagnostic manufacturers; and (4) leading companies in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, chemical and food industries. In 2015 , no single customer accounted for more than three &#32;percent of our total net sales. Our sales are affected by a number of external factors. For example, a number of our customers, particularly in the Life Science segment, are substantially dependent on government grants and research contracts for their funding. A significant reduction of government funding has in the past and could in the future have a detrimental effect on the results of this segment. 

Most of our international sales are generated by our wholly-owned subsidiaries and their branch offices. Certain of these subsidiaries also have manufacturing facilities. Bio-Rad&#8217;s international operations are subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as changes in governmental regulations, import restrictions and foreign exchange fluctuations. 

Competition 

The markets served by our product groups are highly competitive. Our competitors range in size from start-ups to large multinational corporations with significant resources and reach. We seek to compete primarily in market segments where our products and technology offer customers specific advantages over the competition. 

Because of the breadth of its product lines, our Life Science segment does not face the same competitors for all of its products. Competitors in this market include GE Biosciences, Merck Millipore and Thermo Fisher Scientific. We compete primarily based on meeting performance specifications and offering complete solutions. 

Major competitors of our Clinical Diagnostics segment include Roche, Abbott Laboratories, Siemens, Danaher, Thermo Fisher, Becton Dickinson, bioM&#233;rieux, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Tosoh, Immucor and DiaSorin. 

Research and Development 

We conduct extensive research and development activities in all areas of our business, employing approximately 745 &#32;people worldwide in these activities. Research and development has played a major role in Bio-Rad&#8217;s growth and is expected to continue to do so in the future. Our research teams are continuously developing new products and new applications for existing products. In our development of new products and applications, we interact with scientific and medical professionals at universities, hospitals and medical schools, and within our industry. We spent approximately $193.0 million , $220.3 million &#32;and $211.0 million &#32;on research and development activities in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Regulatory Matters 

The development, testing, manufacturing, marketing, post-market surveillance, distribution, advertising and labeling of certain of our products (primarily diagnostic products) are subject to regulation in the United States by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and in other jurisdictions by state and foreign government authorities. FDA regulations require that some new products have pre-marketing clearance or approval by the FDA and require certain products to be manufactured in accordance with FDA&#8217;s &#8220;good manufacturing practice&#8221; regulations, to be extensively tested and to be properly labeled to disclose test results and performance claims and limitations. After a product that is subject to FDA regulation is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including, for example, the requirement that we comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements, such as the FDA&#8217;s medical device reporting regulations and reporting of corrections and removals. The FDA enforces these requirements by inspection and market surveillance. The FDA has authority to take various administrative and legal actions against us for our, or our products&#8217;, failure to comply with relevant legal or regulatory requirements, including issuing warning letters, initiating product seizures, requesting or requiring product recalls or withdrawals, and other civil or criminal sanctions, among other things. 

We are also subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician sunshine laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which our products or diagnostic tests using our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health care programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly reducing reimbursements for certain medical products and services. In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost containment programs, including price controls and restrictions on reimbursement. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products or diagnostic tests using our products, or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover our products could reduce or eliminate utilization of our products and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, healthcare reform measures have been and will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures. 

As a multinational manufacturer and distributor of sophisticated instrumentation, we must meet a wide array of electromagnetic compatibility and safety compliance requirements to satisfy regulations in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions. 

Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern such activities as transportation of goods, emissions to air and discharges to water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid, hazardous and medical wastes. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our operations, we are also subject to environmental laws and regulations that create liabilities and clean-up responsibility for spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment as a result of our operations or otherwise impacting real property that we own or operate. The environmental laws and regulations could also subject us to claims by third parties for damages resulting from any spills, disposals or releases resulting from our operations or at any of our properties. 

These regulatory requirements vary widely among countries. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , Bio-Rad had approximately 7,770 &#32;employees. Approximately eight &#32;percent of our approximately 3,100 &#32;U.S. employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which will expire on November 8, 2016. Many of our non-U.S. full-time employees, especially in France, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations in general to be good. 

Available Information 

Bio-Rad files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Bio-Rad, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

Bio-Rad&#8217;s website address is www.bio-rad.com . We make available, free of charge through our website, our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks, and any amendments to these forms, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

