 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General 

BlackRock Capital Investment Corporation (&#147;BlackRock Capital,&#148; the &#147;Company&#148; or the &#147;Registrant,&#148; which may also be referred to as &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us&#148; or &#147;our&#148;) provides middle-market companies with flexible financing solutions, including senior and junior secured, unsecured and subordinated debt securities and loans, and equity securities. Our strategy is to provide capital to meet our clients&#146; current and future needs across this spectrum, creating long-term partnerships with growing middle-market companies. 

We were incorporated on April 13, 2005, commenced operations with private funding on July 25, 2005, and completed our initial public offering on July 2, 2007. We are an externally-managed, non-diversified closed-end management investment company. We have elected to be regulated as a business development company, or BDC, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which we refer to as the 1940 Act. In addition, for tax purposes we intend to continue to qualify as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which we refer to as the Code. As a BDC, we are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements. See &#147;Regulation&#148; for discussion of BDC regulation and other regulatory considerations. We are also registered as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 which we refer to as the &#147;Advisers Act&#148;. 

Our investment objective is to generate both current income and capital appreciation through our debt and equity investments. We invest primarily in middle-market companies and target investments throughout the capital structure that we believe provide an attractive risk-adjusted return. The term &#147;middle-market&#148; refers to companies with annual revenues typically between $50 million and $1 billion. Our targeted investment typically ranges between $10 million and $50 million, although the investment sizes may be more or less than the targeted range and the size of our investments may grow with our capital availability. We generally seek to invest in companies that operate in a broad variety of industries and that generate positive cash flows. 

Although most of our investments are in senior and junior secured, unsecured and subordinated loans to U.S. private and certain public middle-market companies, we invest throughout the capital structure, which may include common and preferred equity, options and warrants, credit derivatives, high-yield bonds, distressed debt and other structured securities. We may from time to time invest up to 30% of our assets opportunistically in other types of investments, including securities of other public companies and foreign securities. 

The senior and junior secured loans in which we invest generally have stated terms of three to ten years and the subordinated debt investments we make generally have stated terms of up to ten years, but the expected average life of such senior and junior secured loans and subordinated debt is generally between three and seven years. However, we may invest in securities of any maturity or duration. The debt that we invest in typically is not initially rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than &#147;Baa3&#148; by Moody&#146;s Investors Service, lower than &#147;BBB-&#148; by Fitch Ratings or lower than &#147;BBB-&#148; by Standard &#38; Poor&#146;s). We may invest without limit in debt of any rating, as well as debt that has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. 

At a Special Meeting of the Company&#146;s Stockholders, held on February 18, 2015, the Company&#146;s stockholders approved a new investment management agreement (&#147;Management Agreement&#148;) between the Company and BlackRock Advisors, LLC (the &#147;Advisor&#148; or &#147;BlackRock Advisors&#148;) to permit the Advisor to serve as the Company&#146;s investment adviser following the completion of the sale of certain assets related to managing the Company from the Company&#146;s previous investment adviser, 52 nd Street Capital Advisors LLC, formerly BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC (the &#147;Previous Advisor&#148;, &#147;BKCA&#148; or &#147;52 nd Street&#148;), to the 

&#160; 

Advisor (the &#147;Transaction&#148;). The Advisor is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. (&#147;BlackRock&#148;). The Transaction was completed on March 6, 2015 and, pursuant to the new investment management agreement, dated as of March 6, 2015, the Company&#146;s investment activities are currently managed by the Advisor. Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, the Company had entered into an investment management agreement with 52 nd Street Capital Advisors LLC, the Company&#146;s previous adviser, which is referred to as the &#147;previous management agreement&#148;. The Company&#146;s current Management Agreement has the same Management and Incentive Fee terms as the previous agreement until March 6, 2017 and thereafter will have different Management and Incentive Fees terms as compared to the previous agreement. 

Organization of the Advisor and Previous Advisor 

52nd Street Capital Advisors LLC, the Previous Advisor, is organized as a Delaware limited liability company and is registered as an investment advisor with the SEC under the Advisers Act. Its principal executive offices are located at 40 East 52 nd Street, New York, New York. James R. Maher, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Michael B. Lazar, former Chief Operating Officer of the Company, are the control persons of the Previous Advisor. 

Prior to the Transaction, our investment activities were managed by the Previous Advisor. The Previous Advisor was responsible for sourcing potential investments, conducting research on prospective investments, analyzing investment opportunities, structuring our investments, and monitoring our investments and portfolio companies on an ongoing basis. The Previous Advisor was led by James R. Maher, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (&#147;CEO&#148;) of the Company and the Previous Advisor, and Michael B. Lazar, Chief Operating Officer of the Company and the Previous Advisor. They were supported by the Previous Advisor&#146;s team of employees, including 15 investment professionals who have extensive experience in commercial and mezzanine lending, investment banking, accounting, corporate law and private equity investing. Additionally, the Previous Advisor had an investment committee that included Messrs. Maher and Lazar. Senior management as well as other key personnel of the Previous Advisor had critical industry experience and relationships that we relied on to implement our business plan. 

Effective March 6, 2015, James R. Maher and Michael B. Lazar stepped down from their roles with the Company. Mr. Maher, who served as the Company&#146;s Chairman and CEO, will remain on the Board of Directors (the &#147;Board&#148;) and will serve as a senior advisor to BlackRock Advisors to assist in the transition of the business. Mr. Lazar, who served as the Chief Operating Officer of the Company and a member of the Board, has stepped down from the Board at closing, and has completed his service as an advisor to BlackRock Advisors in transitioning the business, including portfolio responsibility and business operations. Effective March 6, 2015, Steven F. Sterling, Managing Director and previously head of BlackRock&#146;s Global Capital Markets group, assumed the role of CEO of the Company and Chairman of the Board. Certain investment professionals of 52 nd Street became employees of BlackRock Advisors upon the closing of the Transaction. As of December 31, 2015, the Company was supported by a team that was predominantly comprised of the same professionals that previously supported Messrs. Maher and Lazar at the previous advisor prior to the completion of the Transaction. In connection with the Transaction, the Company entered into a new Management Agreement with BlackRock Advisors, LLC whereby the Advisor will serve as the Company&#146;s investment manager following the completion of the Transaction. 

BlackRock Advisors, a Delaware limited liability company, is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) as an investment advisor under the Advisers Act. BlackRock Advisors manages or has committed to manage approximately $422.0 billion of assets as of December 31, 2015. 

BlackRock has substantial investment and portfolio management experience, which we believe will be beneficial to the Company and our stockholders. As part of the BlackRock platform, we will continue to seek to enhance the risk-return profile of the Company, strengthen its distribution paying capacity and optimize the valuation for our shareholders. 

&#160; 

Since the commencement of our operations, the team of investment professionals of the Previous Advisor, including senior management, as well as the team that continues to support the BDC following the completion of the Transaction, has evaluated more than 3,400 investment opportunities and completed investments in 175 portfolio companies, aggregating over $4.1 billion in capital provided to middle-market companies through December 31, 2015. 

Market opportunity 

We believe that current market conditions present opportunities for investment in middle-market companies with attractive risk-adjusted returns for several reasons, including: 

The current market environment may mean more favorable terms for investments in middle-market companies. We believe the tight supply of credit due to deleveraging by banks provides a promising environment in which to originate investments in middle-market companies. We believe we are able to structure investments with lower leverage multiples, higher current returns, greater opportunity for equity appreciation, better prepayment protection, and more meaningful financial covenants than are typically available on commensurate investments in large liquid market companies. 

Middle-market companies have faced increasing difficulty in accessing the capital markets. While many middle-market companies were able to raise funds by raising debt in the capital markets in the past, we believe this approach to financing has become more difficult, as transactions have increased in size to address investors&#146; demands for greater liquidity in securities such as high yield bonds. In addition, we believe that many senior lenders have, in recent years, de-emphasized their service and product offerings to middle-market businesses in favor of lending to large corporate clients and managing large, liquid capital markets transactions. 

There is a large pool of uninvested private equity capital likely to seek additional capital to support private investments. We believe there is a large pool of uninvested private equity capital available to middle-market companies. We expect that private equity firms will be active investors in middle-market companies and that these private equity firms will seek to supplement their equity investments with senior secured and junior loans and equity co-investments from other sources, such as us. 

Middle-market companies are increasingly seeking private sources for debt and equity capital. We believe that many middle-market companies prefer to execute transactions with private capital providers such as us, rather than execute high-yield bond or equity transactions in the public markets, which may necessitate increased financial and regulatory compliance and reporting obligations. 

Consolidation among commercial banks has reduced the focus on middle-market business. We believe that many senior lenders have de-emphasized their service and product offerings to middle-market companies in favor of lending to large corporate clients, managing capital markets transactions and providing other non-credit services to their customers. 

Competitive advantages 

We believe we possess the following competitive advantages over other capital providers to middle-market companies: 

Demonstrated ability to deploy capital consistent with our investment policies. Since our inception, we have invested in excess of $4.1 billion across 175 portfolio companies through December 31, 2015. We have a portfolio yield at fair value of approximately 11.6% at December 31, 2015. During 2015, we invested approximately $311.8 million of gross assets. 

Proven transaction sourcing strategy. Since the inception of operations, we have sourced and reviewed more than 3,400 potential investments and have a proven process through which we have invested in excess of $4.1 billion through December 31, 2015. The Advisor identifies potential investments through its dynamic 

&#160; 

transaction origination efforts. The origination efforts include calling on financial institutions such as investment banks, commercial banks, specialty finance companies and private equity firms; as well as on advisory firms, trade associations and the owners and managers of middle-market companies with whom its investment professionals and investment committee members have relationships. We expect that our ability to leverage these relationships will continue to result in the referral of investment opportunities to us and provide us with a competitive advantage. 

Highly experienced investment team. Our investment activities are carried out by our investment Advisor, BlackRock Advisors, and led by Steven F. Sterling, CEO and Chairman of the Board and Head of BlackRock&#146;s US Private Capital group, and Michael Zugay, Head of Investments for BlackRock&#146;s US Private Capital group, with guidance from the Advisor&#146;s investment committee. The investment committee is comprised of Messrs. Sterling and Zugay, and certain employees of BlackRock Advisors. The Advisor&#146;s investment professionals, as well as members of the investment committee, have extensive experience in fixed income, public equity and private equity investing, and possess a broad range of transaction, financial, managerial and investment skills. 

Our executive officers and directors and the employees of the Advisor serve or may serve as investment advisors, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do and/or investment funds managed by our affiliates. We note that any affiliated investment vehicle currently formed or formed in the future and managed or to be managed in the future by the Advisor or its affiliates may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. As a result, the Advisor or its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Accordingly, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by investment funds managed by the Advisor or its affiliates. However, the Advisor and its affiliates will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and consistent with applicable allocation procedures. In any such case, if the Advisor forms other affiliates in the future, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, as well as applicable allocation procedures. In certain circumstances, negotiated co-investments may be made only if we receive an order from the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) permitting us to do so. BlackRock does not currently advise us. A subsidiary of BlackRock provides certain administrative services to us as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Disciplined investment process with focus on preservation of capital. In making investment decisions, the Advisor employs a disciplined and selective review process that focuses on, among other things, a thorough analysis of the underlying issuer&#146;s business and the performance drivers of that business, as well as an assessment of the legal and economic features of each particular investment. 

Cost-effective and high quality infrastructure. We benefit from the existing infrastructure and administrative capabilities of the Administrator. For providing these services, facilities and personnel, we reimburse the Administrator for our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations under the administration agreement. 

Operating and regulatory structure 

Our investment activities are managed by the Advisor and supervised by our Board of Directors, a majority of whom are independent of us, the Advisor and our affiliates. The Advisor is registered under the Advisers Act. Under our investment management agreement, we have agreed to pay the Advisor an annual base management fee (the &#147;Management Fee&#148;) based on our total assets, as well as an incentive management fee (the &#147;Incentive Fee&#148;) based on our performance. The Management Agreement also provides that we will reimburse the Advisor for costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor for office space rental, office equipment and utilities allocable to the Advisor under that agreement, as well as any costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by the Advisor to us. The Company&#146;s current Management Agreement has the same Management and Incentive Fee terms as the previous agreement until March 6, 2017 and thereafter will have different Management and Incentive Fee terms as compared to the previous agreement. 

&#160; 

Also, while we may borrow funds to make investments, our ability to use debt is limited in certain significant respects. As a BDC and a RIC for tax purposes, we are dependent on our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock. RICs generally must distribute substantially all of their earnings to stockholders in order to achieve pass-through tax treatment, which prevents us from using those earnings to support operations, which may include new investments (including investments into existing portfolio companies). Further, BDCs must maintain an asset coverage ratio (the ratio of total assets less total liabilities other than indebtedness to total indebtedness) of not less than 200% in order to incur debt or issue senior securities, meaning generally that for every dollar of debt incurred or senior securities issued, we must have two dollars of assets. Our existing debt arrangements also require that we maintain an asset coverage ratio of not less than 200%, among other things. 

Portfolio composition 

We have built an investment portfolio that includes primarily senior and junior secured, senior and junior unsecured and subordinated loans to U.S. private middle-market companies. We invest a range of $10 million to $50 million of capital, on average, per transaction, although the investment sizes may be more or less and are expected to grow with our capital availability. Although most of our investments are in senior and junior secured, senior and junior unsecured and subordinated loans to U.S. private and certain public middle-market companies, we invest throughout the capital structure of these companies, which may include investing in common and preferred equity, options and warrants, credit derivatives, high-yield bonds, distressed debt and other structured securities. We generally seek to invest in companies that operate in a broad variety of industries and that generate positive cash flows. While our focus is to generate current income through these investments, we also seek capital appreciation. 

We generally are not permitted to invest in any private company in which any of our affiliates holds an existing investment, except to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. We may, however, co-invest on a concurrent basis with our affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, as well as applicable allocation procedures. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds. 

Investment selection criteria 

The Advisor chooses investments and constructs our portfolio based on the investment experience of its professionals and a detailed investment analysis for each investment opportunity. In analyzing each prospective portfolio company, the Advisor has identified several criteria it believes are important in identifying and investing in prospective portfolio companies. These criteria provide general guidelines for the Advisor&#146;s investment decisions on our behalf, although each prospective portfolio company may fail to meet one or more of these criteria. Generally, the Advisor seeks to utilize its access to information generated by its investment professionals to identify prospective investments and to structure investments quickly and effectively. Furthermore, the Advisor seeks to identify those companies exhibiting superior fundamental risk-reward profiles and strong defensible business franchises while focusing on the relative value of the security in the company&#146;s capital structure. 

Value Orientation/Positive Cash Flow. The Advisor&#146;s investment philosophy places a premium on fundamental analysis from an investor&#146;s perspective and has a distinct value orientation. The Advisor focuses on companies in which it can invest at relatively low multiples of operating cash flow and that are profitable at the time of investment on an operating cash flow basis. Typically, the Advisor does not invest in start-up companies or companies having speculative business plans. 

Experienced Management. The Advisor generally requires that portfolio companies have an experienced management team. The Advisor also generally requires portfolio companies to have in place proper incentives to induce management to succeed and to act in concert with our interests as investors, which may include having significant equity interests. 

&#160; 

Strong Competitive Position in Industry. The Advisor seeks to invest in companies that have strong market positions within their respective markets or market niches and are well positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities. The Advisor seeks companies that demonstrate significant competitive advantages versus their competitors, which it believes should help to protect their market position and profitability. 

Exit Strategy. The Advisor seeks to invest in companies that it believes will provide a steady stream of cash flow to repay loans and/or build equity value. With respect to loans and debt securities, the Advisor expects that such internally generated cash flow, leading to the payment of interest on, and the repayment of the principal of, our investments will be a key means by which we exit these investments over time. In addition, the Advisor also seeks to invest in companies whose business models and expected future cash flows offer attractive exit possibilities. These companies include candidates for strategic acquisition by other industry participants and companies that may repay our investments through an initial public offering of common stock or another capital market transaction. With respect to our equity investments, the Advisor will look to exit such investments via repurchases by the portfolio company, public offerings and sales pursuant to merger and acquisition transactions. 

Liquidation Value of Assets. The prospective liquidation value of the assets, if any, collateralizing loans in which we invest is an important factor in the Advisor&#146;s credit analysis. The Advisor emphasizes both tangible assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and real estate, and intangible assets, such as intellectual property, customer lists, networks and databases. 

Investment selection process 

The Company&#146;s investment activities are managed by BlackRock Advisors. The Advisor is responsible for sourcing potential investments, conducting research on prospective investments, analyzing investment opportunities, structuring our investments, and monitoring our investments and portfolio companies on an ongoing basis. The Advisor is supported by a team of employees devoted to the BDC, including investment professionals who have extensive experience in commercial lending, investment banking, accounting, corporate law and private equity investing. 

If a prospective investment is deemed to warrant further review, an investment team is assigned to the investment and the junior members of the team prepare a screening memo for internal discussion. The purpose of the screening meeting is to determine if the prospective investment fits the fund mandate and should require incremental team resources to diligence and execute, as determined by vote of the Investment Committee. At this time, the other investment professionals have the opportunity to identify diligence items, ask questions and raise concerns. 

The Advisor selectively narrows prospective investment opportunities through a process designed to identify the most attractive opportunities. If the Investment Committee and the Company&#146;s senior management determine that an investment opportunity merits pursuit, the Advisor engages in an intensive due diligence process. This process involves extensive research into the target company, its management, its industry, its growth prospects and its ability to withstand adverse conditions. 

In conducting their due diligence, the Advisor&#146;s investment professionals use publicly available information as well as information from their extensive relationships with former and current management teams, consultants, competitors and investment bankers, among others. Though each transaction involves a somewhat different approach, the Advisor often undertakes the following due diligence steps. Initially, the investment team involved in the transaction may meet with management to get an insider&#146;s view of the business and probe for potential weaknesses in business prospects. They may also visit headquarters and company operations, meeting top-and middle-level executives. Independently from the company, the investment team may check management&#146;s backgrounds and references. With information provided by the company, the investment team performs a detailed review of historical financial performance and the quality of earnings. To assess both business prospects and standard practices, they may contact customers and vendors and conduct a competitive analysis, comparing the company to its main competitors on an operating, financial, market share and valuation basis. The investment 

&#160; 

team also researches the industry for historic growth trends and future prospects utilizing BlackRock&#146;s industry analysts, third party research, industry association literature and general news. Furthermore, they assess asset value and the ability of physical infrastructure and information systems to handle anticipated growth and investigate any legal risks and the viability of current financial and accounting systems. Attorneys and independent accountants as well as outside advisors, as appropriate, may conduct additional due diligence on behalf of the Advisor. 

After the Advisor has identified an investment opportunity, received approval at the screening meeting, and completed due diligence, the investment team involved in the transaction prepares a written investment analysis in the form of an investment committee memo, and presents their findings to all of the investment professionals including Messrs. Sterling and Zugay, at an Investment Committee meeting. At that time, the Investment Committee, which consists of the senior investment professionals, cast a vote for or against moving forward with the potential investment. 

Investment structure 

Once the Advisor determines that a prospective portfolio company is a suitable investment, it works with the management of that company, any intermediaries and other capital providers, including senior and junior debt security investors and equity capital providers, to structure an investment. 

We invest in portfolio companies primarily in the form of senior and junior secured loans and unsecured and subordinated loans. The senior and junior secured loans generally have terms of three to ten years. We obtain security interests in the assets of our portfolio companies that serve as collateral in support of the repayment of the senior and junior secured loans. The collateral may take the form of first or second priority liens on the assets of a portfolio company. 

The Advisor structures unsecured and subordinated debt securities and loans to have relatively high floating or fixed interest rates that provide us with current investment income. These debt securities and loans generally have terms of up to ten years. Such unsecured and subordinated debt securities and loans may have interest-only payments in the early years, with amortization of principal deferred to the later years of the loan. Also, some of these loans will be collateralized by a subordinate lien on some or all of the assets of the company. 

In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (&#147;PIK&#148;) interest. To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan. We are required to recognize PIK interest, a non-cash source of income, as taxable income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to stockholders to qualify for the federal income tax benefits applicable to RICs. 

In the case of the senior secured and junior loans, the Advisor tailors the terms of the investment to the facts and circumstances of the transaction and the prospective portfolio company, negotiating a structure that aims to protect our rights and manage our risk while creating incentives for the portfolio company to achieve its business plan and improve its profitability. For example, in addition to seeking a senior position in the capital structure of our portfolio companies, the Advisor seeks to limit the downside potential of our investments. The Advisor may accomplish this through requiring a total return on our investment (including both interest and potential equity appreciation) that compensates us for credit risk or through incorporating call protection into the investment structure. The Advisor may also negotiate covenants in connection with our investments that protect the preservation of our capital. Such restrictions may include affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, lien protection, change of control provisions and board rights, including either observation or participation rights. 

In general, our debt investments include financial covenants and terms that require the portfolio company to reduce leverage over time, thereby enhancing its credit quality. These methods may include, among others: maintenance leverage covenants requiring a decreasing ratio of debt to cash flow; maintenance cash flow covenants requiring an increasing ratio of cash flow to interest expense and possibly other cash expenses such as 

&#160; 

capital expenditures, cash taxes and mandatory principal payments; and debt incurrence prohibitions, limiting a company&#146;s ability to relever its balance sheet. In addition, limitations on asset sales and capital expenditures prevent a company from changing the nature of its business or capitalization without our consent. 

Structurally, subordinated loans usually rank junior in priority of payment to senior debt, such as senior bank debt, and are often unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of insolvency. However, subordinated loans rank senior to common and preferred equity in a borrower&#146;s capital structure. Due to their higher risk profile and often less restrictive covenants as compared to senior loans, subordinated loans generally earn higher interest yields than senior secured loans. We believe that subordinated loans offer an attractive alternative investment opportunity. In many cases investors in subordinated loans receive opportunities to invest directly in the equity securities of borrowers, and from time to time also may receive warrants to purchase equity securities. 

Our debt investments may include equity features, such as warrants or options to buy a minority interest in the portfolio company. Warrants we receive with our debt may require only a nominal cost to exercise, and thus, as a portfolio company appreciates in value, we may achieve additional investment return from this equity interest. We generally seek to structure the warrants to provide provisions protecting our rights as a minority-interest holder, and we generally seek to structure puts or rights to sell such securities back to the company upon the occurrence of specified events. 

Our equity investments may consist of preferred equity that pays dividends on a current basis or preferred equity that does not pay current dividends. Preferred equity generally has a preference over common equity as to distributions on liquidations and dividends. In some cases, we may acquire common equity. Our equity investments frequently are not control-oriented investments, and in many cases, we acquire equity securities as part of a group of private equity investors in which we are not the lead investor. We may also receive equity through portfolio company restructurings. Our preferred and common equity investments typically are made in conjunction with loans to these companies. 

Ongoing relationship with portfolio companies 

The Advisor monitors our portfolio companies on an ongoing basis. The Advisor monitors the financial trends of each portfolio company to determine if it is meeting its business plans and to assess the appropriate course of action for each company. 

The Advisor has several methods of evaluating and monitoring the performance and fair values of our investments, which may include the following and other methods: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; assessment of success of the portfolio company in adhering to its business plan and compliance with covenants; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; periodic and regular contact with portfolio company management and, if appropriate, the financial or strategic sponsor, to discuss financial position, requirements and accomplishments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; comparisons to other companies in the industry; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; attendance at and participation in board meetings; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; review of interim and annual financial statements and financial projections for portfolio companies; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; retention of third-party valuation firms to assist in determination of fair value. 

Managerial assistance 

As a BDC, we offer, and must provide upon request, managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. This assistance could involve, among other things, participating in board and management meetings, consulting with and advising officers of portfolio companies and providing other organizational and financial guidance or 

&#160; 

exercising strategic or managerial influence over such companies. We may receive fees for these services. The Advisor will provide managerial assistance on our behalf to those portfolio companies that request this assistance. Employees of the Advisor have experience providing managerial assistance to private operating companies like our portfolio companies, and such assistance has tended to be related to board representation and to strategic and financing transactions. The Advisor generally will not receive any direct compensation from our portfolio companies for providing managerial assistance although it may do so from time to time. 

Investment rating system 

The Advisor employs a grading system for our entire portfolio. The Advisor grades all loans on a scale of 1 to 4. This system is intended to reflect the performance of the borrower&#146;s business, the collateral coverage of the loans and other factors considered relevant. Generally, the Advisor assigns only one loan grade to each portfolio company for all loan investments in that portfolio company; however, the Advisor will assign multiple ratings for different investments in one portfolio company, when appropriate. The following is a description of the conditions associated with each investment rating: 

Grade 1: Investments in portfolio companies whose performance is substantially within the Advisor&#146;s expectations and whose risk factors are neutral to favorable to those at the time of the original investment. 

Grade 2: Investments in portfolio companies whose performance is below the Advisor&#146;s expectations and that require closer monitoring; however, no loss of investment return (interest and/or dividends) or principal is expected. 

Grade 3: Investments in portfolio companies whose performance is below the Advisor&#146;s expectations and for which risk has increased materially since origination. Some loss of investment return is expected, but no loss of principal is expected. Companies graded 3 generally will be out of compliance with debt covenants and will be unlikely to make debt repayments on their original schedule. 

Grade 4: Investments in portfolio companies whose performance is materially below the Advisor&#146;s expectations where business trends have deteriorated and risk factors have increased substantially since the original investment. Investments graded 4 are those for which some loss of principal is expected. 

The Advisor monitors and, when appropriate, changes the investment ratings assigned to each investment in our portfolio. In connection with our valuation process, the Advisor and Board of Directors review these investment ratings on a quarterly basis. Our average investment rating was 1.29 at December 31, 2015 and 1.27 at December 31, 2014. The following is a distribution of the investment ratings of our portfolio companies at December 31, 2015 and 2014: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; December 31, 2015 &#160; &#160; December 31, 2014 &#160; Grade 1 

&#160; $ 865,640,641 &#160; &#160; $ 980,351,780 &#160; Grade 2 

&#160; &#160; 195,557,688 &#160; &#160; &#160; 242,173,859 &#160; Grade 3 

&#160; &#160; 41,737,298 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11,074,000 &#160; Grade 4 

&#160; &#160; 13,610,937 &#160; &#160; &#160; 23,548,349 &#160; Not Rated 

&#160; &#160; 450,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 568,750 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total investments 

&#160; $ 1,116,996,564 &#160; &#160; $ 1,257,716,738 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; The investment rating process begins with each portfolio company or investment being initially evaluated by the investment team, led by a senior investment professional that is responsible for the portfolio company relationship. This evaluation generally is completed no less frequently than quarterly. At the Advisor&#146;s weekly investment professionals&#146; meeting, the transaction team presents an update on the activities of any company rated below Grade 1. Each quarter, all investment professionals attend a separate investment rating meeting. At these quarterly meetings, the investment team responsible for each portfolio investment reviews each portfolio 

&#160; 

company and suggests a rating for each investment for discussion among the investment professionals. At the conclusion of discussion, and subject to the approval of the Company&#146;s CEO and the Advisor&#146;s Head of Investments, the Company&#146;s Chief Financial Officer compiles the internal investment ratings quarterly for review by the Board of Directors. 

Valuation Procedures 

We conduct the valuation of our assets, pursuant to which our net asset value shall be determined, consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (&#147;GAAP&#148;) and the 1940 Act. We value our assets on a quarterly basis. Our valuation procedures are set forth in more detail below: 

Investments for which market quotations are readily available are valued at such market quotations unless they are deemed not to represent fair value. The Company obtains market quotations, when available, from an independent pricing service or one or more broker-dealers or market makers and utilizes the average of the range of bid and ask quotations. 

Debt and equity securities for which market quotations are not readily available or for which market quotations are deemed not to represent fair value are valued at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of the Company&#146;s Board of Directors. Because the Company expects that there will not be a readily available market for substantially all of the investments in its portfolio, the Company expects to value substantially all of its portfolio investments at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of the Board of Directors using a consistently applied valuation process in accordance with a documented valuation policy that has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. 

Determination of fair value involves subjective judgments and estimates. Due to the inherent uncertainty and subjectivity of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of the Company&#146;s investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a readily available market value existed for such investments and may differ materially from the values that the Company may ultimately realize. 

With respect to the Company&#146;s investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which market quotations are deemed not to represent fair value, the Board of Directors has approved a multi-step valuation process applied each quarter, as described below: 

&#160;

(i) The quarterly valuation process begins with each portfolio company or investment being initially evaluated and rated by the investment professionals of the Advisor responsible for the portfolio investment; &#160;

(ii) The investment professionals provide recent portfolio company financial statements and other reporting materials to independent valuation firms engaged by the Board of Directors; such firms conduct independent appraisals each quarter and their preliminary valuation conclusions are documented and discussed with the Company&#146;s senior management; &#160;

(iii) The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the preliminary valuations prepared by the independent valuation firms; and &#160;

(iv) The Board of Directors discusses valuations and determines the fair value of each investment in the portfolio in good faith based on the input of the Advisor, the respective independent valuation firms and the Audit Committee. Investment management agreement 

At a Special Meeting of the Company&#146;s Stockholders, held on February 18, 2015, the Company&#146;s stockholders approved a new investment management agreement between the Company and BlackRock Advisors, LLC to permit the Advisor to serve as the Company&#146;s investment adviser following the completion of the sale of certain assets related to managing the Company from the Previous Advisor, 52 nd Street Capital 

&#160; 

Advisors LLC, formerly BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC. The Advisor is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. The Transaction was completed on March 6, 2015 and, pursuant to the new investment management agreement, dated as of March 6, 2015, the Company&#146;s investment activities are currently managed by the Advisor. Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, the Company had entered into an investment management agreement with 52 nd Street Capital Advisors LLC, the Previous Advisor, which initially became effective on June 22, 2008 and its initial term expired on June 22, 2010. Our Board of Directors then approved the agreement for successive one year terms with the most recently approved term expiring upon the completion of the Transaction with BlackRock Advisors on March 6, 2015, at which time the new investment management agreement became effective. The Company&#146;s current Management Agreement has the same Management and Incentive Fee terms as the previous agreement until March 6, 2017 and thereafter will have different Management and Incentive Fees terms as compared to the previous agreement as outlined below. Unless earlier terminated, the investment management agreement will remain in effect for a period of two years from the date it first became effective and will remain in effect from year-to-year thereafter if approved annually by the Board of Directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of outstanding voting securities, including, in either case, approval by a majority of the directors who are not interested persons. 

Base Management Fee 

Under the current investment management agreement, the Advisor, subject to the overall supervision of the Board of Directors, manages the day-to-day operations and provides us with investment advisory services. For providing these services, the Advisor receives, until March 6, 2017, a base management fee at an annual rate of 2.0% of our total assets, including any assets acquired with the proceeds of leverage, payable quarterly in arrears. After March 6, 2017, the Advisor will receive a base management fee at an annual rate of 1.75% of total assets (excluding cash), including any assets acquired with the proceeds of leverage, payable quarterly in arrears based on total asset valuation at the end of the prior quarter. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, both the previous and current Advisors together earned an aggregate $24,678,087, $23,641,231 and $21,629,665, respectively, in base management fees under the Management Agreement. 

Incentive Management Fees Until March 6, 2017 

The current investment management agreement provides that the Advisor or its affiliates may be entitled to an incentive management fee under certain circumstances until March 6, 2017. The Incentive Fee is calculated in the same manner as the Incentive Fee in the previous investment management agreement. The determination of the Incentive Fee, as described in more detail below, will result in the Advisor or its affiliates receiving no Incentive Fee payments if returns to stockholders do not meet an 8.0% annualized rate of return during the applicable fee measurement period, and will result in the Advisor or its affiliates receiving less than the full amount of the Incentive Fee percentage until returns to stockholders exceed an approximate 13.3% annualized rate of return during such period. Annualized rate of return in this context is computed by reference to net asset value and does not take into account changes in the market price of the common stock. 

The Advisor will be entitled to receive the Incentive Fee if the performance exceeds a &#147;hurdle rate&#148; during different measurement periods: trailing four quarters&#146; periods (which apply only to the portion of the Incentive Fee based on income) and annual periods (which apply only to the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains). The &#147;trailing four quarters&#146; periods&#148; for purposes of determining the income portion of the Incentive Fee payable for the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was determined by reference to the four quarter periods ended on December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The term &#147;annual period&#148; means the period beginning on July 1 of each calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next calendar year. 

The hurdle rate for each measurement period is 2.0% multiplied by net asset values at the beginning of each calendar quarter during the measurement period, calculated after giving effect to any distributions that occurred during the measurement period. A portion of the Incentive Fee is based on income and a portion is based on capital gains. Each portion of the Incentive Fee is described below. 

&#160; 

Quarterly Incentive Fee Based on Income Until March 6, 2017 

For each trailing four quarters&#146; period, the Company will pay the Advisor an Incentive Fee based on the amount by which (A) aggregate distributions and amounts distributable out of taxable net income (excluding any capital gain and loss), during the period less the amount, if any, by which net unrealized capital depreciation exceeds net realized capital gains / losses during the period, is in excess of (B) the hurdle rate for the period. The amount of the excess of (A) over (B) described in this paragraph for each period is referred to as the excess income amount. 

It should be noted that net realized capital gains / losses during the period are calculated as the proceeds received upon disposition less the fair market value as of the beginning of the measurement period. Since this calculation is not cumulative, but rather performed on a trailing four quarters period, fluctuations in fair market values are captured in net unrealized appreciation and depreciation of prior measurement periods. 

The portion of the Incentive Fee based on income for each period will equal 50% of the period&#146;s excess income amount, until the cumulative Incentive Fee payments for the period equal 20% of the period&#146;s income amount distributed or distributable to stockholders as described in clause (A) of the preceding paragraph. Thereafter, the portion of the Incentive Fee based on income for the period will equal 20% of the period&#146;s amount distributed or distributable to stockholders. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Advisor earned $11,061, $9,972,822 and $10,889,088 in Incentive Fees based on income, respectively. 

Annual Incentive Fee Based on Capital Gains Until March 6, 2017 

The portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains is calculated and paid on an annual basis beginning on July 1 of each annual period and ending on June 30 of the next calendar year. The portion of Incentive Fee based on capital gains is calculated in the same manner as such portion of the Incentive Fee in the prior investment management agreement. For each annual period, the Company pays the Advisor an Incentive Fee on capital gains based on the amount by which (A) net realized capital gains, if any, exceeds gross unrealized capital depreciation, if any, occurring during the period in excess of (B) the amount, if any, by which the period&#146;s hurdle rate exceeds the amount of income used in the determination of the Incentive Fee based on income for the period. The amount of the excess of (A) over (B) described in this paragraph is referred to as the excess gain amount. 

It should be noted that net realized capital gains during the period are calculated as the proceeds received upon disposition in excess of the lower of each security&#146;s amortized cost, or the fair market value as of the beginning of the measurement period. Since this calculation is not cumulative, but rather performed on an annual period commencing each July 1, any unrealized depreciation on a security, if any, will be captured in the gross unrealized depreciation of a prior period. 

The portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains for each period will equal 50% of the period&#146;s excess gain amount, until such payments equal 20% of the period&#146;s capital gain amount distributed or distributable to stockholders. Thereafter, the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains for the period equals an amount such that the portion of the Incentive Fee payments to the Advisor based on capital gains for the period equals 20% of the period&#146;s capital gain amount distributed or distributable to stockholders. The result of this formula is that, if the portion of the Incentive Fee based on income for the period exceeds the period&#146;s hurdle, then the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains will be capped at 20% of the capital gain amount. 

In calculating whether the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains is payable with respect to any period, we account for assets on a security-by-security basis. In addition, the Company uses the &#147;period-to-period&#148; method pursuant to which the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains for any period is based on realized capital gains for the period reduced by realized capital losses and gross unrealized capital depreciation for the period. Based on current interpretations of Section 205(b)(3) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 by the SEC and its staff, the calculation of unrealized depreciation for each portfolio 

&#160; 

security over a period is based on the fair value of the security at the end of the period compared to the fair value at the beginning of the period. Incentive Fees earned in any of the periods described above are not subject to modification or repayment based upon performance in a subsequent period. 

The Company is required under GAAP to accrue a hypothetical capital gains Incentive Fee based upon net realized capital gains and unrealized capital appreciation and depreciation on investments held at the end of each period. The accrual of this hypothetical capital gains Incentive Fee assumes all unrealized capital appreciation and depreciation is realized in order to reflect a hypothetical capital gains Incentive Fee that would be payable at each measurement date. If such amount is positive at the end of the period, then we record a capital gains Incentive Fee equal to 20% of such amount, less the amount of capital gains related Incentive Fees already accrued in prior periods. If the resulting amount is negative, the accrual for GAAP in a given period may result in the reduction of an expense. There can be no assurance that such unrealized capital appreciation will be realized in the future. However, it should be noted that a fee so calculated and accrued would not be payable under the Advisers Act or the investment management agreement. Amounts actually paid will be consistent with the Advisers Act which specifically excludes consideration of unrealized capital appreciation. 

The capital gains Incentive Fee due and payable to the Advisor as calculated under the investment management agreement as described above was zero at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. In accordance with GAAP, the hypothetical liquidation for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 resulted in a capital gains Incentive Fee (reversal)/accrual of $(3,200,520), $17,533,209 and $20,259,349, respectively. The total cumulative accrued balance at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was zero, $27,534,770 and $25,754,084, respectively. 

Quarterly Incentive Fee Based on Income After March 6, 2017 

After March 6, 2017, the investment management agreement provides that the Advisor or its affiliates may be entitled to an incentive management fee under certain circumstances. The Incentive Fee has two parts. The first portion is based on income other than capital gains and is calculated separately for each calendar quarter and will be paid on a quarterly basis. The Company will pay the Advisor the portion of the Incentive Fee based on income for each period as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; (i) No Incentive Fee based on income other than capital gains for any calendar quarter in which the Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income does not exceed 1.75% (7.00% annualized) of net assets attributable to common stock at the beginning of such quarter. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; (ii) 100% of the Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income in any calendar quarter with respect to that portion of such Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income, if any, for such calendar quarter, that exceeds 1.75% (7.00% annualized) of net assets attributable to common stock at the beginning of such quarter but is less than 2.1875% (8.75% annualized). 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; (iii) 20% of the Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income, if any, for any calendar quarter, that exceeds 2.1875% (8.75% annualized) of net assets attributable to common stock at the beginning of such quarter. 

The payment of any such Incentive Fee based on income otherwise earned by the Advisor will be deferred if, for the most recent four full calendar quarter period ending on or prior to the date such payment is to be made, the Annualized Rate of Return is less than 7.0% of net assets attributable to common stock at the beginning of such four quarter period as adjusted for the net proceeds from any common stock issuances and the cost of any common stock repurchases during such four full calendar quarter period, with any deferred Incentive Fees to be carried over for payment in subsequent quarterly calculation periods to the extent such payment can then be made in accordance with the investment management agreement. 

&#160; 

Annual Incentive Fee Based on Capital Gains After March 6, 2017 

The second portion of the Incentive Fee is based on capital gains and is calculated separately for each Annual Period. The Advisor will be entitled to receive an Incentive Fee based on capital gains for each Annual Period in an amount equal to 20% of the amount by which (1) net realized capital gains occurring during the period, if any, exceeds (2) gross unrealized capital depreciation, if any, occurring during the period. In calculating the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains payable for any period, investments are accounted for on a security-by-security basis. In addition, the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains is determined using the &#147;period-to-period&#148; method pursuant to which the portion of the Incentive Fee based on capital gains for any period will be based on realized capital gains for the period reduced by realized capital losses for the period and gross unrealized capital depreciation for the period. 

For purposes of calculating the Incentive Fee, (i) &#147;Annual Period&#148; means the period beginning on July 1 of each calendar year, including the calendar year prior to the year in which the investment management agreement became effective, and ending on June 30 of the next calendar year; (ii) &#147;Annualized Rate of Return&#148; is computed by reference to the sum of (i) the aggregate distributions to common stockholders for the period in question and (ii) the change in net assets attributable to common stock (before taking into account any Incentive Fees otherwise payable during such period); (iii) &#147;net assets attributable to common stock&#148; means total assets less indebtedness and preferred stock; and (iv) &#147;Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income&#148; means net investment income (as determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles) accrued by the Company during the calendar quarter excluding any accruals for or payments in respect of the Incentive Fee. 

Expenses 

All investment professionals and staff of the Advisor, when and to the extent engaged in providing investment advisory and management services, and the compensation and routine overhead expenses of such personnel allocable to such services, will be provided and paid for by the Advisor. We will bear all other costs and expenses of our operations and transactions, including those relating to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our organization; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; calculating our net asset value (including the cost and expenses of any independent valuation firms); 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expenses incurred by the Advisor payable to third parties in monitoring our investments and performing due diligence on prospective portfolio companies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; interest payable on debt, if any, incurred to finance our investments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the costs of future offerings of common shares and other securities, if any; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the base management fee and any incentive management fee; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; dividends and distributions on our preferred shares, if any, and common shares; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; administration fees payable under the administration agreement; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fees payable to third parties relating to, or associated with, making investments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; transfer agent, trustee, registrar, paying agent and custodial fees; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; registration fees; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; listing fees; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; taxes; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; independent director fees and expenses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs of preparing and filing reports or other documents with the SEC; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the costs of any reports, proxy statements or other notices to our stockholders, including printing costs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our fidelity bond; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; a portion of our directors and officers/errors and omissions liability insurance, and any other insurance premiums; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; indemnification payments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; direct costs and expenses of administration, including audit and legal costs; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; all other expenses reasonably incurred by us or the Administrator, such as the allocable portion of overhead under the administration agreement, including rent and other allocable portions of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

We will reimburse the Advisor for costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor for office space rental, office equipment and utilities allocable to the Advisor under the Management Agreement, as well as any costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by the Advisor to us. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $798,139, $729,868 and $783,342, respectively, for such investment advisor expenses under the Management Agreement. 

From time to time, the Advisor may pay amounts owed by us to third party providers of goods or services. We will subsequently reimburse the Advisor for such amounts paid on our behalf. Reimbursements to the Advisor for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, were $1,590,067, $3,490,730 and $2,808,014, respectively. 

Indemnification 

The Management Agreement provides that in the absence of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of its obligations thereunder, the Advisor is not liable to us or any of our stockholders for any act or omission by it or its employees in the supervision or management of our investment activities or for any loss sustained by us or our stockholders, and provides for indemnification by us of its members, directors, officers, employees, agents and control persons for liabilities incurred by it in connection with their services to us, subject to certain limitations and conditions. 

Duration and termination 

Unless earlier terminated, the investment management agreement will remain in effect for a period of two years from the date it first became effective. Thereafter, if not terminated, the Management Agreement will remain in effect for successive periods of twelve months, provided that each continuance is specifically approved at least annually by both (1) the vote of a majority of our Board of Directors or the vote of a majority of our outstanding voting securities and (2) the vote of a majority of the Board of Directors who are not parties to the Management Agreement or interested persons (as such term is defined in the 1940 Act) of any such party, cast in person at a meeting called for the purpose of voting on such approval. We may terminate the Management Agreement as a whole at any time, without the payment of any penalty, upon the vote of a majority of our Board of Directors or a majority of our outstanding voting securities or by the Advisor, on 60 days&#146; written notice by either party to the other which can be waived by the non-terminating party. The Management Agreement will also immediately terminate in the event of its assignment. 

Administration agreement 

We have entered into an administration agreement with BlackRock Financial Management, Inc. (the &#147;Administrator&#148;), a subsidiary of BlackRock, under which the Administrator provides certain administrative services to us. For providing these services, facilities and personnel, we reimburse the Administrator for our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $1,614,561, $1,955,460 and $2,059,038, respectively, for administrative services expenses payable to the Administrator under the administration agreement. 

&#160; 

Competition 

A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, CLO funds, commercial financing companies, insurance companies, high yield investors and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including investments in middle-market companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities at middle-market companies has intensified. Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the restrictions that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. 

Leverage 

On March 27, 2014, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility (the &#147;Credit Facility&#148;) which has an initial aggregate principal amount of up to $405,000,000 and a stated maturity date of March 27, 2019. The interest rate applicable to borrowings thereunder is generally LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 2.25%. The Credit Facility&#146;s commitment may increase in size, under certain circumstances, up to a total of $750,000,000. 

On March 27, 2014, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Senior Secured Term Loan Credit Agreement (the &#147;Term Loan&#148;) which has a principal amount of $15,000,000. The Term Loan has a stated maturity date of March 27, 2019. The interest rate applicable to borrowings thereunder is generally LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 3.25%. 

On February 19, 2013, the Company closed a private offering of $100,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 5.50% unsecured convertible senior notes due 2018 (the &#147;Convertible Notes&#148;). The initial purchasers of the Convertible Notes fully exercised their overallotment option and purchased an additional $15,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes. The closing of the overallotment option took place on March 4, 2013. With the exercise of the overallotment option, a total of $115,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes was sold. Net proceeds to the Company from the offering, including the exercise of the overallotment option, were approximately $111,300,000. The Convertible Notes were only offered to qualified institutional buyers as defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#147;Securities Act&#148;) pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. 

The Convertible Notes are unsecured and bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears. In certain circumstances and during certain periods, the Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company&#146;s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company&#146;s election, at an initial conversion rate of 86.0585 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $11.62 per share of the Company&#146;s common stock, subject to defined anti-dilution adjustments. The Company does not have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes prior to maturity. The Convertible Notes mature on February 15, 2018, unless repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. 

On January 18, 2011, the Company closed a private placement issuance of $158,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of five-year, senior secured notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.50% and a maturity date of January 18, 2016 and $17,000,000 million in aggregate principal amount of seven-year, senior secured notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.60% and a maturity date of January 18, 2018 (collectively, the &#147;Senior Secured Notes&#148;). The Senior Secured Notes were sold to certain institutional accredited investors pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Interest on the Senior Secured Notes is due semi-annually on January 18 and July 18, commencing on July 18, 2011. 

&#160; 

Staffing 

Services necessary for our business are provided by individuals who are employees of the Advisor or the Administrator and its affiliates, pursuant to the terms of the Management Agreement and the Administration Agreement. Each of our executive officers is an employee of the Advisor or the Administrator and its affiliates. Our day-to-day investment operations are managed by the Advisor. There are currently 15 investment professionals who focus on origination and transaction development and monitoring of our investments. We reimburse the Advisor for costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor for office space rental, office equipment and utilities allocable to the Advisor under the Management Agreement, as well as any costs and expenses incurred by the Advisor relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by the Advisor to us. In addition, we reimburse the Administrator for our allocable portion of expenses it incurs in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including rent as well as our allocable portion of any costs and expenses incurred by the Administrator relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by the Administrator to us. 

Regulation 

We are a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates (including any investment advisors or sub-advisors), principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than &#147;interested persons,&#148; as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless that change is approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. 

We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an &#147;underwriter&#148; as that term is defined in the Securities Act. We may purchase or otherwise receive warrants to purchase the common stock of our portfolio companies in connection with acquisition financing or other investment. Similarly, in connection with an acquisition, we may acquire rights to require the issuers of acquired securities or their affiliates to repurchase them under certain circumstances. We also do not intend to acquire securities issued by any investment company that exceed the limits imposed by the 1940 Act. Under these limits, except for registered money market funds we generally cannot acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of any registered investment company, invest more than 5% of the value of our total assets in the securities of one registered investment company or invest more than 10% of the value of our total assets in the securities of registered investment companies in the aggregate. With regard to that portion of our portfolio invested in securities issued by investment companies, it should be noted that such investments might subject our stockholders to additional expenses. None of these are fundamental policies and they may be changed without stockholder approval. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the &#147;Sarbanes-Oxley Act&#148;) imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. We have adopted procedures to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to review our policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such regulations. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 

The NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance regulations 

The NASDAQ Global Select Market has adopted corporate governance regulations with which listed companies must comply. We believe we are in compliance with such corporate governance listing standards. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future listing standards and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 

&#160; 

Privacy principles 

We are committed to maintaining the privacy of stockholders and to safeguarding our nonpublic personal information. The following information is provided to help you understand what personal information we collect, how we protect that information and why, in certain cases, we may share information with select other parties. 

Generally, we do not receive any nonpublic personal information relating to our stockholders, although certain nonpublic personal information of our stockholders may become available to us. We do not disclose any nonpublic personal information about our stockholders or former stockholders to anyone, except as permitted by law or as is necessary in order to service stockholder accounts (for example, to a transfer agent or third party administrator). 

We restrict access to nonpublic personal information about our stockholders to the Advisor&#146;s employees with a legitimate business need for the information. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards designed to protect the nonpublic personal information of our stockholders. 

Available Information 

We file with or submit to the SEC annual, quarterly and current periodic reports, proxy statements and other information meeting the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;). This information is available free of charge by calling us at (212) 810-5800 or on our website at www.blackrockbkcc.com. The information on our website is not deemed incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. You also may inspect and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information, as well as the Annual Report and related exhibits and schedules, at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed electronically by us with the SEC which are available at www.sec.gov . Copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following e-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov , or by writing the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. 

&#160;

