 I TEM 1. 

Business 

General 

BankGuam Holding Company (the &#8220;Company&#8221;), a Guam corporation organized in 2011, is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. We provide a wide range of banking services through Bank of Guam, our wholly-owned subsidiary and principal asset (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). 

The Bank is a regional community bank that was organized in Guam, a United States flag territory, in 1972. The Bank offers a full range of banking services to consumers, businesses and governments. We lend in all markets where we have a physical presence through our branch network. We attract deposits throughout our market area with a customer-oriented product mix, competitive pricing and convenient locations. We offer a wide range of financial products for commercial and retail banking and a multitude of other products and services to complement our lending and deposit services, including trade financing, and trust services. 

In addition to the traditional financial services offered, the Bank offers credit life, health, auto and homeowners insurance through its subsidiary, BG Insurance, as agents for various insurance companies, and also offers retail wealth management services in collaboration with its affiliate, Money Concepts. In August 2015, the Company incorporated a new subsidiary, BankGuam Investment and Insurance Services (&#8220;BGIIS&#8221;), to separate its insurance and wealth management activities from its banking activities. BGIIS was capitalized in the amount of $300 thousand in January 2016, with the organizational transition to take effect by the end of September 2016.

The Bank&#8217;s Executive Vice President of Retail and Card Services entered into an employment agreement commencing January 1, 2016 and terminating on December 31, 2020. Under this agreement, the Executive Vice President of Retail and Card Services receives a specified base salary, which is adjusted annually for changes in the U.S. Consumer Price Index, plus an incentive bonus. The Executive Vice President of Retail and Card Services&#8217; bonus is based on profitability, also within a defined limit, subject to adjustments based on the Bank meeting certain performance criteria.

Although no definitive agreement has been made, the Company is contemplating buying a minority interest in a Guam-based 401(k) processing and administration firm. A decision in this matter is expected during April 2016.

Bank of Guam 

The Bank is a Guam-chartered bank headquartered at 111 West Chalan Santo Papa in Hag&#229;t&#241;a, Guam 96910. It was incorporated in March 1972 and opened for business in December of that year. We operate through 23 full service branch offices, including 12 in Guam; two in Saipan and one each in Tinian and Rota, all in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; one in the Republic of Palau; one each in the states of Yap, Chuuk, Pohnpei and Kosrae in the Federated States of Micronesia; one in the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and one in San Francisco, California. 

The Bank&#8217;s business strategy has been to emphasize and support economic growth and development in and among the U.S.-affiliated islands in the western Pacific Ocean. To accomplish this goal, the Bank offers competitively-priced deposit and loan products and other financial services that are primarily tailored to the needs of consumers, small businesses and government entities. Although the needs of our customers in a small, remote island environment can be particularly challenging for a community bank, we have succeeded in providing a broad range of services, such as trade financing and corporate trust services, that are typically provided only by much larger, money center institutions. 

Our lending products include commercial, real estate, construction, consumer and Small Business Administration-guaranteed loans. We also provide home mortgage and home equity loans. Commercial loans and industrial loans comprise the largest portion of the Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio. Residential mortgage loans comprise the second largest portion of the Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio. 

We offer a wide range of deposit products for retail and business banking markets including checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings accounts, time deposits and retirement accounts. Our branch network enables us to attract deposits from throughout our market area with a customer-oriented product mix, competitive pricing and convenient locations. 

In addition, correspondent bank deposit accounts are maintained to enable the Bank to transact types of activity that it would otherwise be unable to perform or would not be cost effective due to the size of the Bank or the volume of activity. The Bank has utilized several correspondent banks to process a variety of transactions. The Bank also provides a multitude of other products and services to complement our lending and depository services. These include wire and Automated Clearing House transfers, cashier&#8217;s checks, traveler&#8217;s checks, corporate and consumer credit cards, bank-by-mail, ATMs, night depositories, safe deposit boxes, direct 

deposit, electronic funds transfers, online banking and bill payments, merchant services, check imaging, and other customary banking services. We currently operate ATMs at eighty-six locations. 

The Bank has a trust department, primarily engaged in corporate trust services under indenture.

Competition 

Banking and the financial services industry in Guam are highly competitive. The market is dominated by the Bank, two of Hawaii&#8217;s largest banks and two locally-organized federal credit unions. Also, as a result of the U.S. military presence as a longtime employer, military credit unions have physical branches at the island&#8217;s main military facilities and in the civilian community. The Bank&#8217;s presence in the remaining areas of the western Pacific is less competitive, and in many cases the Bank remains the dominant financial services organization in the islands. In the San Francisco Bay area, where the Bank has had a branch office since 1983, the Bank&#8217;s California division primarily focuses its lending efforts on owner-occupied commercial real estate and commercial investor properties. The division provides financing to hotels, gasoline service station, apartments, office and retail space, and residential care homes for the elderly and disabled, and also works closely with selected banks in loan participations. Framing this environment is the increasingly competitive setting as a result of regulatory, technological and product delivery systems changes. 

Larger banks have a competitive advantage because of global marketing campaigns and U.S. name recognition. They also offer extensive international trade finance and discount brokerage services that the Bank is not currently prepared to provide. To compensate for this, the Bank has arrangements with correspondent banks and other financial institutions to deliver such services to its customers. 

To compete with other financial institutions in its service area, the Bank relies principally on local media as well as personal contact by directors, officers and employees with existing and potential customers. The Bank emphasizes to customers the advantages of dealing with a locally-owned and managed community-oriented institution. Because decisions are made locally by people who are intimately familiar with the economy, the legal structure and the developmental needs of the islands, the Bank is able to respond more quickly and effectively to customer needs than are many of its competitors. The Bank also provides local service and timely decision-making for small businesses and local governments. 

The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes involving the frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services that have further increased competition. The Bank often adopts these new technologies and products ahead of its competitors, but there is no assurance that these technological improvements, if made, will increase the Company&#8217;s operational efficiency, or that the Company will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Bank had 536.5 full-time equivalent employees. The Bank&#8217;s employees are not represented by any union or collective bargaining agreement, and the Bank believes its employee relations are good. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Recent Developments 

On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;). This law has significantly changed the U.S. bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for several more years. 

Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured banks and their holding companies. The federal banking agencies issued a joint final rule, or the &#8216;&#8216;Final Capital Rule,&#8217;&#8217; that implements the Basel III capital standards and establishes the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. We commenced compliance with the Final Capital Rule on January 1, 2015, and are preparing to comply with the increasingly stringent capital requirements that it will phase in through 2019. The Final Capital Rule establishes a minimum common equity Tier I capital ratio of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets for a &#8216;&#8216;well-capitalized&#8217;&#8217; institution and increases the minimum Tier I risk-based capital ratio for a &#8216;&#8216;well-capitalized&#8217;&#8217; institution from 6.0% to 8.0%. Additionally, the Final Capital Rule requires an institution to maintain a 2.5% common equity Tier I capital conservation buffer over the 6.5% minimum risk-based capital requirement to avoid restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, discretionary bonuses, and engage in share repurchases. The Final Capital Rule also 

increases the required capital for certain categories of assets, including high-volatility construction real estate loans, but retains the current capital treatment of residential mortgages. Under the Final Capital Rule, we made the election to exclude unrealized gains and losses from the calculation of our r egulatory capital. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of oper ations or financial condition. 

It is difficult to predict at this time what other specific impacts the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet-to-be-written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that, at a minimum, they will increase our operating and compliance costs. 

Introduction 

Banking is a complex, highly regulated industry. The primary goals of the regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system, protect depositors and the FDIC insurance fund, and facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy. In furtherance of these goals, Congress and the states have created several largely autonomous regulatory agencies and enacted numerous laws that govern banks, bank holding companies and the financial services industry in general. Consequently, the growth and earnings performance of the Bank can be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of applicable state and federal statues, regulations and the policies of various governmental regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the banking authorities of each of the jurisdictions in which the Bank operates. 

The Bank&#8217;s business is also influenced by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. The Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policies (with objectives such as curbing inflation and combating unemployment) through its open-market operations in U.S. Government securities, by adjusting the required level of reserves for depository institutions subject to its reserve requirements, and by varying the target Federal Funds and discount rates applicable to borrowings by depository institutions. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits, and also affect interest earned on interest-earning assets and paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The nature and impact of any future changes in monetary and fiscal policies on the Bank are difficult to predict. 

The system of supervision and regulation applicable to financial services businesses governs most aspects of the business of the Bank, including: (i) the scope of permissible business; (ii) investments; (iii) reserves that must be maintained against deposits; (iv) capital levels that must be maintained; (v) the nature and amount of collateral that may be taken to secure loans; (vi) the establishment of new branches; (vii) mergers and consolidations with other financial institutions; and (viii) the payment of dividends. 

From time to time, federal and local legislation is enacted which may have the effect of materially increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. In addition, the various bank regulatory agencies often adopt new rules, regulations and policies to implement and enforce existing legislation. It cannot be predicted whether, or in what form, any such legislation or regulations or changes in policy may be enacted, or the extent to which the business of the Bank or the Company would be affected thereby. The Bank cannot predict whether or when potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implemented regulations and supervisory policies, would have on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the outcome of examinations, any litigation or any investigations initiated by federal or local authorities may result in necessary changes in our operations that may increase our costs. 

Set forth below is a description of the significant elements of the laws and regulations applicable to the Company and the Bank. The description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and policies that are described. Also, such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the U.S. Congress and local legislatures and federal and local regulatory agencies, and, where applicable, their foreign counterparts. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company or the Bank could have a material effect on our business. 

Regulation of BankGuam Holding Company 

As a bank holding company, the Company is registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;), and is subject to regulation and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board. The Company is also required to file periodic reports of its operations and any additional information regarding its activities and those of its subsidiaries, as may be required by the Federal Reserve Board. 

Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under these regulations, the holding company is expected to commit resources to support its bank subsidiary, including at times when the holding company may not be in a financial position to provide such support. Bank holding companies must also maintain the financial flexibility and capital raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting their subsidiary 

bank. A bank hol ding company&#8217;s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary bank will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve Board to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice, or a violation of the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s reg ulations, or both. 

Under the BHCA, a bank holding company must obtain the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s approval before: (i) directly or indirectly acquiring more than 5% ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company; (ii) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank; or (iii) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. 

The business activities of the Company, as a bank holding company, are restricted by the BHCA. Under the BHCA and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s bank holding company regulations, the Company may only engage in, acquire or control voting securities or assets of a company engaged in: (i) banking, or managing or controlling banks and other subsidiaries authorized under the BHCA; and, (ii) any non-banking activity the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. These include any incidental activities necessary to carry on those activities as well as a variety of activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to the business of banking as to be a proper incident thereto. 

There are various restrictions on the ability of the holding company to borrow from, and engage in certain other transactions with, its bank subsidiary. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit by the Bank to any single affiliate of the Bank must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited to 10% of the Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Company and all other affiliates of the Bank collectively, to 20% of the Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus. Federal law also provides that extensions of credit and other transactions between the Bank and the Company must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the Bank as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to or would apply to non-affiliated companies. 

Federal law prohibits a bank holding company and any subsidiary banks from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with the extension of credit. Thus, for example, the Bank may not extend credit, lease or sell property, or furnish any services, or fix or vary the consideration for any of the foregoing on the condition that: (i) the customer must obtain or provide some additional credit, property or services from or to the Bank other than a loan, discount, deposit or trust services; (ii) the customer must obtain or provide some additional credit, property or service from or to the Company or the Bank; or, (iii) the customer must not obtain some other credit, property or services from competitors, except reasonable requirements to ensure soundness of the credit extended. 

The principal source of the Company&#8217;s cash revenues are dividends from its subsidiary, the Bank. The Company&#8217;s earnings and activities are affected by legislation, by regulations and by local legislative and administrative bodies and decisions of courts in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. For example, these include limitations on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company&#8217;s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiary. 

Regulation of the Bank 

General . As a Guam-chartered bank, the Bank is subject to supervision, periodic examination and regulation by the Guam Banking Commission. As a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Bank is also subject to supervision, periodic examination and regulation by the FDIC as the Bank&#8217;s primary federal regulator. If, as a result of an examination, the Guam Banking Commission or the FDIC should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the Bank&#8217;s operations are unsatisfactory, or that the Bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, the Guam Banking Commission and the FDIC have residual authority to: (i) require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; (ii) direct an increase in capital; (iii) restrict the Bank&#8217;s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions; (iv) enter into informal nonpublic or formal public memoranda of understanding or written agreements; (v) enjoin unsafe and unsound practices and issue cease and desist orders to take corrective action; (vi) remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and, (vii) take possession of, close and liquidate the Bank. 

Guam law permits locally-chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called &#8220;closely related to banking&#8221; or &#8220;nonbanking&#8221; activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Bank may conduct certain &#8220;financial&#8221; activities in a subsidiary to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank is and remains &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;well-managed&#8221; and in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (discussed below). 

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (&#8220;FHLB&#8221;) of Des Moines. Among other benefits, each FHLB serves as a r eserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region and makes available loans or advances to its members. Each FHLB is financed primarily from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. As an FHLB member, the Bank is required to own a certain amount of capital stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2015, the Bank was in compliance with the FHLB&#8217;s stock ownership requirement. 

Regulatory Capital Guidelines. The federal banking agencies have established minimum capital standards known as risk-based capital guidelines. These guidelines are intended to provide measures of capitalization that reflect the degree of risk associated with a bank&#8217;s operations. The risk-based capital guidelines include both a definition of capital and a framework for calculating the amount of capital that must be maintained against a bank&#8217;s assets and off-balance sheet items. The amount of capital required to be maintained is based upon the credit risks associated with the various types and quality of a bank&#8217;s assets and off-balance sheet items. A bank&#8217;s assets and off-balance sheet items are classified under several risk categories, with each category assigned a particular risk weighting from 0% to 150%. The Bank&#8217;s Tier I capital consists of its capital stock, capital surplus, treasury stock, undivided earnings and the cumulative effect of the FDIC&#8217;s adjustment of our intangible assets. Our Tier II capital adds to Tier I the allowed portion of our reserves for possible loan losses. The inclusion of Tier II capital as qualifying capital for regulatory purposes is subject to certain other requirements and limitations of the federal banking agencies. The federal regulators require a minimum ratio of total qualifying capital to risk-adjusted assets of 8%, a minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets of 6%, a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to total assets (referred to as the &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221;) of 4% and a minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital to risk-adjusted assets of 4.5%. As of December 31, 2015, the Company&#8217;s capital levels met all minimum regulatory requirements and the Bank was considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action described below. There is no condition or event since December 31, 2015, that management believes has changed the Company&#8217;s or the Bank&#8217;s capitalization category. 

Prompt Corrective Action. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of regulated banks. Each federal banking agency has issued regulations defining five capital categories: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Under the regulations, a bank shall be deemed to be: 

&#160;

&#183; 

&#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or more, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, has a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or more, and a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% or more, and is not subject to specified requirements to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; 

&#160;

&#183; 

&#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or more, a leverage capital ratio of 4.0% or more (3.0% under certain circumstances), and a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% or more, and does not meet the definition of &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;; 

&#160;

&#183; 

&#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0%, a leverage capital ratio that is less than 4.0% (3.0% under certain circumstances), or a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.5%; 

&#160;

&#183; 

&#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0%, a leverage capital ratio that is less than 3.0%, or a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3.0%; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

&#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. 

Banks are prohibited from paying dividends or management fees to controlling persons or entities if, after making the payment, the bank would be &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; that is, the bank fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. Asset growth and branching restrictions apply to &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; banks. Banks classified as &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; are required to submit acceptable capital plans guaranteed by their holding company, if any. Broad regulatory authority was granted with respect to &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; banks, including forced mergers, growth restrictions, ordering new elections for directors, forcing divestiture by their holding company, if any, requiring management changes, and prohibiting the payment of bonuses to senior management. Even more severe restrictions are applicable to &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; banks, those with capital at or less than 2%. Restrictions for these banks include the appointment of a receiver or conservator. All of the federal banking agencies have promulgated substantially similar regulations to implement this system of prompt corrective action. 

A bank, based upon its capital levels, that is classified as &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment. At each successive lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions. The federal banking agencies, however, may not treat an institution as &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; unless its capital ratios actually warrant such treatment. 

In additio n to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, insured banks may be subject to potential enforcement actions by federal banking agencies, or the banking regulators in any of the jurisdictions in which the Bank operates, for unsafe or un sound practices in conducting their businesses, or for violations of any law, rule, regulation or any condition imposed in writing by the agency, or any written agreement with the agency. Enforcement actions may include the imposition of a conservator or r eceiver, the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that can be judicially enforced, the termination of insurance of deposits (in the case of a depository institution), the imposition of civil money penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, and the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against &#8220;institution-affiliated&#8221; parties. The enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders may be based upon a judicial determinatio n that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted. 

Neither the Company nor the Bank is currently operating under any corrective actions by their respective regulatory authorities. 

Safety and Soundness Standards. The federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines establishing safety and soundness standards for all insured depository institutions, as have the other regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which the Bank operates. Those guidelines relate to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan underwriting and documentation, compensation and interest rate exposure. In general, the standards are designed to assist the various banking authorities in identifying and addressing problems at depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an institution fails to meet these standards, the appropriate banking authority may require the institution to submit a compliance plan and may institute enforcement proceedings if an acceptable compliance plan is not submitted. 

FDIC Insurance and Insurance Assessments. The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and savings institutions, and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and savings industries. The FDIC insures the Bank&#8217;s customer deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;). The maximum deposit insurance amount is $250,000. 

The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each DIF member institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, the FDIC is authorized to set the reserve ratio for the DIF annually at between 1.15% and 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. 

On February 7, 2011, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC adopted final rules to revise the assessment base to consist of average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus the average tangible equity during the assessment period. In addition, the revisions eliminate the adjustment for secured borrowings and make certain other changes to the impact of unsecured borrowings and brokered deposits on an institution&#8217;s deposit insurance assessment. The rule also revises the assessment rate schedule to provide assessments ranging from 5 to 45 basis points, which took effect on April 1, 2011. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of depositors. 

Depositor Preference. In the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;). The CRA is intended to encourage insured depository institutions, while operating safely and soundly, to help meet the credit needs of their communities. The CRA specifically directs the federal bank regulatory agencies, in examining insured depository institutions, to assess their record of helping to meet the credit needs of their entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The CRA further requires the agencies to take a financial institution&#8217;s record of meeting its community credit needs into account when evaluating applications for, among other things, domestic branches, consummating mergers or acquisitions, or holding company formations. 

The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations which measure a bank&#8217;s compliance with its CRA obligations on a performance-based evaluation system. This system bases CRA ratings on an institution&#8217;s actual lending service and investment performance rather than the extent to which the institution conducts needs assessments, documents community outreach or complies with other procedural requirements. The ratings range from &#8220;outstanding&#8221; to a low of &#8220;substantial noncompliance.&#8221; The Bank had a CRA rating of &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; as of its most recent regulatory examination. A copy of the rating report is publicly available for review in the Bank&#8217;s Hag&#229;t&#241;a Branch. 

Other Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations. The bank regulatory agencies are increasingly focusing attention on compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations, and banks have been advised to carefully monitor their co mpliance with these laws and regulations. The federal Interagency Task Force on Fair Lending issued a policy statement on discrimination in home mortgage lending describing three methods that federal agencies will use to prove discrimination: overt evidenc e of discrimination, evidence of disparate treatment, and evidence of disparate impact. In addition to CRA and fair lending requirements, the Bank is subject to numerous other federal consumer protection statutes and regulations. Due to heightened regulato ry concern related to compliance with consumer protection laws and expanded regulations generally, the Bank may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in the local communities it serves. 

Privacy. The Federal Reserve Board and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require financial institutions to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bank has adopted a customer information security program to comply with these requirements. 

Financial institutions are also required to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, financial institutions must provide explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the Bank&#8217;s policies and procedures. The Bank has implemented privacy policies addressing these restrictions, and these policies are distributed regularly to all existing and new customers of the Bank. 

USA Patriot Act of 2001. Under USA Patriot Act of 2001 (the &#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;), financial institutions are subject to prohibitions regarding specified financial transactions and account relationships, as well as enhanced due diligence and &#8220;know your customer&#8221; standards in their dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. Among other things, the Patriot Act requires: (i) enhanced due diligence policies, procedures, and controls on banks opening or holding accounts for foreign banks or wealthy foreign individuals; and, (ii) requires all financial institutions to establish anti-money laundering programs. The Bank has adopted and implemented policies and procedures to comply with the requirements of the Patriot Act. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation. The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and, (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences, including civil money penalties and potential criminal prosecution. The Bank has established policies and implemented procedures to detect and prohibit transactions that would violate the OFAC rules. 

Other Aspects of Banking Law. The Bank is also subject to federal statutory and regulatory provisions covering, among other things, security procedures, insider and affiliated party transactions, management interlocks, electronic funds transfers, funds availability, and truth-in-savings. 

Other Pending and Proposed Legislation 

Other legislative and regulatory initiatives which could affect the Bank, the Company and the banking industry in general may be proposed or introduced before the United States Congress, the Guam legislature and other governmental bodies in the future. Such proposals, if enacted, may further alter the structure, regulation and competitive relationship among financial institutions, and may subject the Bank or the Company to increased regulation, disclosure and reporting requirements. In addition, the various banking regulatory agencies often adopt new rules and regulations to implement and enforce existing legislation. It cannot be predicted whether, or in what form, any such legislation or regulations may be enacted or the extent to which the business of the Bank or the Company would be affected thereby. 

Available Information 

The Company makes available free of charge through the Bank&#8217;s website (www.bankofguam.com) the Company&#8217;s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports. The Company makes 

these reports available on the Bank&#8217;s website as soon as reasonably pract icable after we electronically file such material with, or otherwise furnish it to, the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

