 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Badger Meter, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a leading innovator, manufacturer and marketer of products incorporating flow measurement, control and communication solutions serving markets worldwide. The Company was incorporated in 1905. 

Throughout this 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; refer to the Company. 

Available Information 

The Company's Internet address is http://www.badgermeter.com . The Company makes available free of charge (other than an investor's own Internet access charges) through its Internet website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, on the same day they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company is not including the information contained on or available through its website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Market Overview, Products, Systems and Solutions 

Badger Meter is an innovator in flow measurement, control and communication solutions, serving water utilities, municipalities, and commercial and industrial customers worldwide. The Company&#8217;s products measure water, oil, chemicals and other fluids, and are known for accuracy, long-lasting durability and for providing and communicating valuable and timely measurement data. The Company&#8217;s product lines fall into two categories: sales of water meters and related technologies to municipal water utilities (municipal water) and sales of meters to various industries for water and other fluids (flow instrumentation). The Company estimates that over 75% of its products are used in water applications when both categories are grouped together. 

Municipal water, the largest category by sales volume, includes mechanical and ultrasonic (electronic) water meters and related technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating water and wastewater revenues. The key market for the Company&#8217;s municipal water meter products is North America, primarily the United States, because most meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. The majority of water meters sold continues to be mechanical in nature. In recent years, the Company has made inroads in selling ultrasonic water meters. The development of smaller diameter ultrasonic water meters combined with advanced radio technology now provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example Europe, the Middle East and South America. In the municipal water category, sales of water meters and related technologies and services are also commonly referred to as residential or commercial water meter sales, the latter referring to larger sizes of water meters. 

Flow instrumentation includes meters and valves sold worldwide to measure and control materials flowing through a pipe or pipeline including water, air, steam, oil, and other liquids and gases. These products are used in a variety of applications, primarily into the following industries: water/wastewater; heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC); oil and gas; chemical and petrochemical; test and measurement; automotive aftermarket; and the concrete construction process. Furthermore, the Company&#8217;s flow instrumentation technologies are sold to original equipment manufacturers as the primary flow measurement device within a product or system. 

Residential and commercial water meters are generally classified as either manually read meters or remotely read meters via radio technology. A manually read meter consists of a water meter and a register that provides a visual totalized meter 

reading. Meters equipped with radio technology (endpoints) receive flow measurement data from encoder registers attached to the water meter which is encrypted and transmitted via radio frequency to a receiver that collects and formats the data appropriately for water utility billing systems. These remotely read, or mobile, systems are either automatic meter reading (AMR) systems, where a vehicle equipped for meter reading purposes, including a radio receiver, computer and reading software, collects the data from utilities&#8217; meters; or fixed network advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) systems, where data is gathered utilizing a network of permanent data collectors or gateway receivers that are always active or listening for the radio transmission from the utilities&#8217; meters. AMI systems eliminate the need for utility personnel to drive through service territories to collect meter reading data. These systems provide the utilities with more frequent and diverse data at specified intervals from their meters. 

The ORION&#174; family of radio endpoints provides water utilities with a range of industry-leading options for meter reading. These include ORION Mobile (for mobile meter reading), ORION Fixed Network (for traditional fixed network applications), and ORION Cellular (for infrastructure-free meter reading). ORION Mobile makes the migration to fixed network easier for utilities that prefer to start with mobile reading and later adopt fixed network communications, allowing utilities to choose a solution for their current needs and be positioned for their future operational changes. 

Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics. The Company&#8217;s BEACON&#174; AMA Managed Solution is the latest in metering technology. BEACON AMA combines the BEACON analytical software suite with proven ORION technologies using two-way fixed and cellular networks in a managed solution, improving utilities&#8217; visibility of their water consumption and eliminating the need for costly utility managed infrastructure. 

The BEACON AMA secure, cloud-hosted software suite includes a customizable dashboard, the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions, and consumer engagement tools that allow end water customers to view and manage their water usage activity. Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting. 

The Company&#8217;s net sales and corresponding net earnings depend on unit volume and product mix, with the Company generally earning higher margins on meters equipped with radio technology. The Company&#8217;s proprietary radio products generally result in higher margins than the remarketed, non-proprietary technology products. The Company also sells registers and endpoints separately to customers who wish to upgrade their existing meters in the field. 

The proprietary ORION endpoint technology has been licensed to other technology providers on a non-exclusive basis, including those providing radio products that communicate over power lines, broadband networks and proprietary radio frequency networks, allowing ORION a distinct advantage in the radio solutions market. In addition, the ORION universal gateway receiver transmits data over a variety of public wireless networks, which allows for strategic deployments, such as monitoring large commercial users. 

Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products. To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base. Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to radio technology. This conversion rate is accelerating and contributes to an increased water meter and radio solutions base of business. The Company estimates that less than 53% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solutions technology. The Company&#8217;s strategy is to fulfill customers&#8217; metering expectations and requirements with its proprietary meter reading systems or other systems available through its alliance partners in the marketplace. 

Flow instrumentation products serve flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category. Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets. The Company&#8217;s specific flow measurement and control applications and technologies serve the flow measurement market through both customized and standard flow instrumentation solutions. 

Industries today face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements. To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems. This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation, and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical. 

An industry leader in both mechanical and electrical flow metering technologies, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market. This portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall&#174;, E-Series&#174;, ORION, Hedland&#174;, Dynasonics&#174;, Blancett&#174;, and Research Control&#174;, and includes eight of the ten 

major flow meter technologies. Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance, and more sustainable operations. 

&#160; 

The Company's products are sold throughout the world through employees, resellers and representatives. Depending on the customer mix, there can be a moderate seasonal impact on sales, primarily relating to higher sales of certain municipal water products during the spring and summer months. No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Company's sales. 

Competition 

&#160; 

There are competitors in each category in which the Company sells its products, and the competition varies from moderate to intense. Major competitors for utility water meters include Sensus, Neptune Technology Group Inc., Master Meter, Inc. and Mueller Water Products, Inc. Together with Badger Meter, it is estimated these companies sell in excess of 90% of the water meters in the North American market, which has been somewhat insulated from other competitors due to the nature of the mechanical technology used and the standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. In recent years, the Company, as well as some of its competitors, have introduced various forms of electronic meters, which have no moving parts, and have seen sales of those products begin to grow. As the global water metering market, including the North American market, begins to adopt these technologies, Kamstrup A/S, Diehl Metering GmbH and Itron, Inc. are also potential competitors. 

The Company's primary competitors for water utility radio products in North America are Itron, Inc., Neptune Technology Group Inc. and Sensus. Outside of North America, the primary competitors include Itron, Inc., Sensus, Diehl Metering GmbH and Elster Group GmbH. While the Company sells its own proprietary radio systems (ORION and GALAXY&#174;), it is also a reseller of the Itron&#174; products. A number of the Company's competitors in certain markets have greater financial resources than the Company. However, the Company believes it currently provides the leading technologies in water meters and radio water systems. As a result of significant research and development activities, the Company enjoys favorable patent positions and trade secret protections for several of its technologies, products and processes. 

&#160; 

There are many competitors in the flow instrumentation markets due to the various markets and applications being served. For example, major competitors in the flow instrumentation markets include Emerson Electric Co., Krohne Messtechnik GmbH, Endress+Hauser AG and Yokogawa Electric Corporation. In the HVAC market, the key competitor is Onicon Incorporated. In upstream oil and gas, Cameron International Corp. is the primary competitor. The Company competes with AW-Lake Company in the measurement of on-machine hydraulic fluids. With a portfolio consisting of products utilizing eight of the ten major flow meter technologies, the Company is well positioned to compete in these markets. 

Backlog 

&#160; 

The Company's total backlog of unshipped orders at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $35.7 million and $33.6 million, respectively. The backlog is comprised of firm orders and signed contractual commitments, or portions of such commitments that call for shipment within 12 months. Backlog can be significantly affected by the timing of orders for large projects and the amounts can vary due to the timing of work performed. 

Raw Materials and Components 

&#160; 

Raw materials used in the manufacture of the Company's products include purchased castings made of metal or alloys (such as brass, which uses copper as its main component, aluminum, stainless steel and cast iron), plastic resins, glass, microprocessors and other electronic subassemblies, and components. There are multiple sources for these raw materials and components, but the Company relies on single suppliers for certain brass castings and certain electronic subassemblies. The Company believes these items would be available from other sources, but that the loss of certain suppliers would result in a higher cost of materials, delivery delays, short-term increases in inventory and higher quality control costs in the short term. The Company carries business interruption insurance on key suppliers. The Company's purchases of raw materials are based on production schedules, and as a result, inventory on hand is generally not exposed to price fluctuations. World commodity markets and currency exchange rates may also affect the prices of material purchased in the future. The Company does not hold significant amounts of precious metals. 

Research and Development 

&#160; 

Expenditures for research and development activities relating to the development of new products, the improvement of existing products and manufacturing process improvements were $10.6 million in 2015 compared to $9.5 million in 2014 and $10.5 million in 2013. Research and development activities are primarily sponsored by the Company. The Company also engages in some joint research and development with other companies. 

Intangible Assets 

&#160; 

The Company owns or controls several trade secrets and many patents, trademarks and trade names in the United States and other countries that relate to its products and technologies. No single patent, trademark, trade name or trade secret is material to the Company's business as a whole. 

Environmental Protection 

&#160; 

The Company is subject to contingencies related to environmental laws and regulations. The Company is named as one of many potentially responsible parties in two landfill lawsuits. The landfill sites are impacted by the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and other environmental laws and regulations. At this time, the Company does not believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial position or results of operations, either from a cash flow perspective or on the financial statements as a whole. This belief is based on the Company&#8217;s assessment of its limited past involvement with these landfill sites as well as the substantial involvement of and government focus on other named third parties with these landfill sites. However, due to the inherent uncertainties of such proceedings, the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any of these matters. A future change in circumstances with respect to these specific matters or with respect to sites formerly or currently owned or operated by the Company, off-site disposal locations used by the Company, and property owned by third parties that is near such sites, could result in future costs to the Company and such amounts could be material. Expenditures for compliance control provisions and regulations during 2015, 2014 and 2013 were not material. 

Employees 

&#160; 

The Company and its subsidiaries employed 1,514 persons at December 31, 2015, 119 of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with District 10 of the International Association of Machinists. The Company is currently operating under a five-year contract with the union, which expires on October 31, 2016. The Company believes it has good relations with the union and all of its employees. 

&#160; 

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

Name 

Position 

Age at 

2/28/2016 

Richard A. Meeusen 

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Richard E. Johnson 

Senior Vice President &#8212; Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

Fred J. Begale 

Vice President &#8212; Engineering 

William R. A. Bergum 

Vice President &#8212; General Counsel and Secretary 

Gregory M. Gomez 

Vice President &#8212; Flow Instrumentation 

Horst E. Gras 

Vice President &#8212; International Operations 

Raymond G. Serdynski 

Vice President &#8212; Manufacturing 

Beverly L. P. Smiley 

Vice President &#8212; Controller 

Kimberly K. Stoll 

Vice President &#8212; Sales and Marketing 

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers. Officers are elected annually at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the shareholders. Each officer holds office until his or her successor has been elected or until his or her death, resignation or removal. There is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which he or she was elected as an officer. 

&#160; 

Mr. Meeusen has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer for more than five years. 

&#160; 

Mr. Johnson has served as Senior Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer for more than five 

years. 

&#160; 

Mr. Begale has served as Vice President - Engineering for more than five years. 

&#160; 

Mr. Bergum has served as Vice President - General Counsel and Secretary for more than five years. 

Mr. Gomez became Vice President - Flow Instrumentation in September 2014. Mr. Gomez served as Vice President - Business Development from December 2010 to September 2014. 

Mr. Gras has served as Vice President - International Operations for more than five years. 

Mr. Serdynski has served as Vice President - Manufacturing for more than five years. 

Ms. Smiley has served as Vice President - Controller for more than five years. 

&#160; 

Ms. Stoll was elected Vice President - Sales and Marketing in February 2012. Ms. Stoll served as Vice President - Marketing from April 2009 to February 2012. 

Foreign Operations and Export Sales 

&#160; 

The Company distributes its products through employees, resellers and representatives throughout the world. Additionally, the Company has a sales, distribution and manufacturing facility in Neuffen, Germany; sales and customer service offices in Mexico, Singapore, China, United Arab Emirates and Slovakia; manufacturing facilities in Nogales, Mexico; and manufacturing and sales facilities in Brno, Czech Republic and Bern, Switzerland. The Company exports products from the United States that are manufactured in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Racine, Wisconsin; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Scottsdale, Arizona. 

&#160; 

Information about the Company's foreign operations and export sales is included in Note 10 &#8220;Industry Segment and Geographic Areas&#8221; in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Information about Industry Segments 

The Company operates in one industry segment as an innovator, manufacturer and marketer of products incorporating flow measurement, control and communication solutions as described in Note 10 &#8220;Industry Segment and Geographic Areas&#8221; in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

