 ITEM 1 BUSINESS 

Bank of Marin (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;) was incorporated in August 1989, received its charter from the California Superintendent of Banks (now the California Department of Business Oversight or "DBO") and commenced operations in January 1990. The Bank is an insured bank under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;). On July 1, 2007 (the &#8220;Effective Date&#8221;), a bank holding company reorganization was completed whereby Bank of Marin Bancorp (&#8220;Bancorp&#8221;) became the parent holding company for the Bank, the sole and wholly-owned subsidiary of Bancorp. On the Effective Date, each outstanding share of Bank of Marin common stock was converted into one share of Bank of Marin Bancorp common stock. Bancorp is listed at NASDAQ under the ticker symbol BMRC, which was formerly used by the Bank. Prior to the Effective Date, the Bank filed reports and proxy statements with the FDIC pursuant to Section 12 of the 1934 Act. Upon formation of the holding company, Bancorp became subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, which subjects Bancorp to Federal Reserve Board reporting and examination requirements, and Bancorp now files 1934 Act reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

References in this report to &#8220;Bancorp&#8221; mean Bank of Marin Bancorp, parent holding company for the Bank. References to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; mean the holding company and the Bank that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. 

Virtually all of our business is conducted through Bancorp's subsidiary, Bank of Marin, which is headquartered in Novato, California. In addition to our headquarters office, we operate through twenty offices in Marin, Sonoma, San Francisco, Napa and Alameda counties, with a strong emphasis on supporting the local communities. Our customer base is made up of business and personal banking relationships from the communities near the branch office locations. Our business banking focus is on small to medium-sized businesses, professionals and not-for-profit organizations. 

&#160; 

We offer a broad range of commercial and retail deposit and lending programs designed to meet the needs of our target markets. Our lending categories include commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans, 

Page-4 

construction financing, consumer loans, and home equity lines of credit. Merchant card services are available for our business customers. Through third party vendors, we offer a proprietary Visa &#174; credit card product combined with a rewards program to our customers, a Business Visa &#174; &#32;program, a leasing program for commercial equipment financing, and cash management sweep services. 

We offer a variety of personal and business checking and savings accounts, and a number of time deposit alternatives, including time certificates of deposit, Individual Retirement Accounts (&#8220;IRAs&#8221;), Health Savings Accounts, Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service &#174; &#32;("CDARS") and Insured Cash Sweep &#174; &#32;("ICS") accounts. CDARS and ICS are part of a network through which we offer full FDIC insurance coverage in excess of the regulatory maximum by placing deposits in multiple banks participating in the network. We also offer mobile banking, remote deposit capture, Automated Clearing House services (&#8220;ACH&#8221;), fraud prevention services including Positive Pay for Checks, ACH, Apple Pay &#174; , peer-to-peer funds transfer, and image lockbox services. A valet deposit pick-up service is available to our professional and business clients. 

Automated teller machines (&#8220;ATM's&#8221;) are available at each retail branch location. Our ATM network is linked to the PLUS, CIRRUS and NYCE networks, as well as to a network of nation-wide surcharge-free ATM's called MoneyPass. We also offer our depositors 24-hour access to their accounts by telephone and through our internet banking products available to personal and business account holders. 

We offer Wealth Management and Trust Services (&#8220;WMTS&#8221;) which include customized investment portfolio management, trust administration, estate settlement, custody services, and advice on charitable giving. We also offer 401(k) plan services to small and medium-sized businesses through a third party vendor. 

We make international banking services available to our customers indirectly through other financial institutions with whom we have correspondent banking relationships. 

We hold no patents, licenses (other than licenses required by the appropriate banking regulatory agencies), franchises or concessions. The Bank has registered the service marks "The Spirit of Marin", the words &#8220;Bank of Marin&#8221;, the Bank of Marin logo, and the Bank of Marin tagline &#8220;Committed to your business and our community&#8221; with the United States Patent &#38; Trademark Office. In addition, Bancorp has registered the service marks for the words &#8220;Bank of Marin Bancorp&#8221; and for the Bank of Marin Bancorp logo with the United States Patent &#38; Trademark Office. 

All service marks registered by Bancorp or the Bank are registered on the United States Patent &#38; Trademark Office Principal Register, with the exception of the words "Bank of Marin Bancorp" which is registered on the United States Patent &#38; Trademark Office Supplemental Register. 

Market Area 

Our primary market area consists of Marin, San Francisco, Napa, Sonoma and Alameda counties. Our customer base is primarily made up of business, not-for-profit and personal banking relationships within these market areas. 

We attract deposit relationships from individuals, merchants, small to medium-sized businesses, not-for-profit organizations and professionals who live and/or work in the communities comprising our market areas. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 67% of our deposits are in Marin County and southern Sonoma County, and approximately 56% of our deposits are from businesses and 44% from individuals. 

Competition 

The banking business in California generally, and in our market area specifically, is highly competitive with respect to attracting both loan and deposit relationships. The increasingly competitive environment is affected by changes in regulation, interest rates, technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. The banking industry is seeing strong competition for quality loans, with larger banks expanding their activities to attract businesses that are traditionally community bank customers. In all of our five counties, we have significant competition from nationwide banks with much larger branch networks and greater financial resources, as well as credit unions and other independent banks. 

Page-5 

In Marin County we have the third largest market share of total deposits at 10.1%, according to the Deposit &#38; Market Share Report from the California Banksite Corporation based upon the FDIC deposit market share data as of June 30, 2015. A significant driver of our franchise value is the growth and stability of our checking deposits, a low-cost funding source for our loan portfolio. We are building our presence in the Sonoma, Napa, Alameda and San Francisco markets. 

Other competitors for depositors' funds are money market mutual funds and non-bank financial institutions such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Among the competitive advantages held by some of these large, non-bank financial institutions is their ability to finance extensive advertising and funding campaigns. 

Nationwide banks have the competitive advantages of national advertising campaigns and technology infrastructure to achieve economies of scale. Large commercial banks also have substantially greater lending limits and the ability to offer certain services which are not offered directly by us. 

In order to compete with the numerous, and often larger, financial institutions in our primary market area, we use, to the fullest extent possible the flexibility and rapid response capabilities that derive from our independent status, local leadership and local decision making. Our competitive advantages also include an emphasis on personalized service, extensive community involvement, philanthropic giving, local promotional activities and strong relationships with our customers. The commitment and dedication of our directors, officers and staff have also contributed greatly to our success in competing for business. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we employed 259 full-time equivalent (&#8220;FTE&#8221;) staff. The actual number of employees, including part-time employees, at year-end 2015 included five executive officers, 105 other corporate officers and 164 staff. None of our employees are presently represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our employee relations are good. We have been recognized as one of the &#8220;Best Places to Work&#8221; by the North Bay Business Journal &#32;and as a "Top Corporate Philanthropist&#8221; by the San Francisco Business Times for many years. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. The following discussion summarizes certain significant laws, rules and regulations affecting Bancorp and the Bank. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

Upon formation of the bank holding company on July 1, 2007, we became subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;) which subjects Bancorp to Federal Reserve Board ("FRB") reporting and examination requirements. Under the FRB's regulations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, we are expected to commit resources to support the Bank, including at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources, and it may not be in our, or our shareholders&#8217; or creditors&#8217;, best interests to do so. In addition, any capital loans we make to the Bank are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of the Bank. The BHCA regulates the activities of holding companies including acquisitions, mergers and consolidations and, together with the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999, the scope of allowable banking activities. Bancorp is also a bank holding company within the meaning of the California Financial Code. As such, Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the DBO. 

Bank Regulation 

Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect consumers, depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. These regulations affect our lending practices, consumer protections, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy. 

As a state chartered bank, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the DBO. We are also subject to regulation, supervision and periodic examination by the FDIC. If, as a result of an examination of the Bank, the 

Page-6 

FDIC or the DBO should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of our operations are unsatisfactory, or that we have violated any law or regulation, various remedies are available to those regulators including issuing a &#8220;cease and desist&#8221; order, monetary penalties, restitution, restricting our growth or removing officers and directors. 

The Bank addresses the many state and federal regulations it is subject to through a comprehensive compliance program that addresses the various risks associated with these issues. 

Dividends 

The payment of cash dividends by the Bank to Bancorp is subject to restrictions set forth in the California Financial Code (the &#8220;Code&#8221;) in addition to regulations and policy statements of the FRB. Prior to any distribution from the Bank to Bancorp, a calculation is made to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Code and to ensure that the Bank remains within capital guidelines set forth by the DBO and the FDIC. Management anticipates that there will be sufficient earnings at the Bank level to provide dividends to Bancorp to meet its cash requirements for 2016. See also Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under the heading &#8220;Dividends&#8221; in Item 8 of this report. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments 

Our deposits are insured by the FDIC to the maximum amount permitted by law, which is currently $250,000 per depositor, based on the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;). 

Our FDIC insurance assessment base is quarterly average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, defined as Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. Assessment rates are between 2.5 and 9 basis points annually on the assessment base for banks in the lowest risk category and 30 to 45 basis points for banks in the highest risk category. In deriving the risk categories, the FDIC uses a bank's capital level, supervisory ratios and other financial measures to determine a bank's ability to withstand financial stress. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) was enacted in 1977 to encourage financial institutions to meet the credit needs of the communities where they are chartered. All banks and thrifts have a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operations, to help meet the credit needs of their entire communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. Regulatory agencies rate each bank's performance in assessing and meeting these credit needs. The Bank is committed to serving the credit needs of the communities in which we do business, and it is our policy to respond to all creditworthy segments of our market. As part of its CRA commitment, the Bank maintains strong philanthropic ties to the community. We invest in affordable housing funds that help economically disadvantaged individuals and residents of low- and moderate-income census tracts, in each case consistent with our long-established prudent underwriting practices. We also donate to and volunteer with organizations in our communities that serve small businesses or low-and moderate-income communities or individuals that offer educational and health programs to economically disadvantaged students and families, community development service and affordable housing programs. We provide CRA reportable small business, small farm and community development loans within our assessment areas. The CRA requires a depository institution's primary federal regulator, in connection with its examination of the institution, to assess the institution's record in meeting CRA requirements. The regulatory agency's assessment of the institution's record is made available to the public. The record is taken into consideration when the institution establishes a new branch that accepts deposits, relocates an office, applies to merge or consolidate, or expands into other activities. The FDIC's last CRA performance examination, completed in May 2015, was performed under the large bank requirements and was assigned a rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221;. 

Anti Money-Laundering Regulations 

A series of banking laws and regulations beginning with the Bank Secrecy Act in 1970 requires banks to prevent, detect, and report illicit or illegal financial activities to the federal government to prevent money laundering, international drug trafficking, and terrorism. Under the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, financial institutions are subject to prohibitions against specified financial transactions and account relationships, requirements regarding the Customer Identification Program, as well as 

Page-7 

enhanced due diligence and &#8220;know your customer&#8221; standards in their dealings with high risk customers, foreign financial institutions, and foreign individuals and entities. 

Privacy and Data Security 

The Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) of 1999 imposes requirements on financial institutions with respect to consumer privacy. The GLBA generally prohibits disclosure of consumer information to non-affiliated third parties unless the consumer has been given the opportunity to object and has not objected to such disclosure. Financial institutions are further required to disclose their privacy policies to consumers annually. The GLBA also directs federal regulators, including the FDIC, to prescribe standards for the security of consumer information. We are subject to such standards, as well as standards for notifying consumers in the event of a security breach. We must disclose our privacy policy to consumers and permit consumers to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of having non-public customer information disclosed to third parties. We are required to have an information security program to safeguard the confidentiality and security of customer information and to ensure proper disposal of information that is no longer needed. Customers must be notified when unauthorized disclosure involves sensitive customer information that may be misused. 

Consumer Protection Regulations 

Our lending activities are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers, including the CRA, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, Truth-in-Lending Act ("TILA"), and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"). Our deposit operations are also subject to laws and regulations that protect consumer rights including Expedited Funds Availability, Truth in Savings, and Electronic Funds Transfers. Other regulatory requirements include: the Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts and Practices ("UDAAP"), Dodd-Frank Act, Right To Financial Privacy and Privacy of Consumer Financial Information. Additional rules govern check writing ability on certain interest earning accounts and prescribe procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records. 

Restriction on Transactions between Bank's Affiliates 

Transactions between Bancorp and the Bank are quantitatively and qualitatively restricted under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W. Section 23A places restrictions on the Bank's &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with Bancorp, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments in the securities of, and purchases of assets from Bancorp. Section 23B requires that certain transactions, including all covered transactions, be on market terms and conditions. Federal Reserve Regulation W combines statutory restrictions on transactions between the Bank and Bancorp with FRB interpretations in an effort to simplify compliance with Sections 23A and 23B. 

Capital Requirements 

The FRB and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks. Bancorp's ratios exceed the required minimum ratios for capital adequacy purposes and the Bank meets the definition for "well capitalized." Undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to significant restrictions. Payment of dividends could be restricted or prohibited, with some exceptions, if the Bank were categorized as "critically undercapitalized" under applicable FDIC regulations. 

In July 2013, the Federal banking regulators approved a final rule to implement the revised capital adequacy standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule strengthens the definition of regulatory capital, increases risk-based capital requirements, makes selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets, and adjusts the prompt corrective action thresholds. We became subject to the new rule on January 1, 2015 and certain provisions of the new rule will be phased in over the period of 2015 through 2019. We have modeled our ratios under the finalized Basel III rules and we do not expect that we will be required to raise additional capital when the new rules fully phase in. For further information on our risk-based capital positions and the effect of the new Basel III rules, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

Page-8 

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, a landmark financial reform bill comprised of voluminous new rules and restrictions on bank operations as regulations have been promulgated. It includes key provisions aimed at preventing a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis and a new process for winding down failing, systemically important institutions in a manner as close to a controlled bankruptcy as possible. The Dodd-Frank Act includes other key provisions as follows: 

(1) Establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic financial risks. The FRB is given extensive new authorities to impose strict controls on large bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or in excess of $50 billion and systemically significant non-bank financial companies to limit the risk they might pose to the economy and other large interconnected companies. The FRB can also take direct control of troubled financial companies that are considered systemically significant. 

The Dodd-Frank Act restricts the amount of trust preferred securities (&#8220;TruPS&#8221;) that may be considered as Tier 1 Capital. For bank holding companies below $15 billion in total assets, TruPS issued before May 19, 2010 are grandfathered, so their status as Tier 1 capital does not change. 

(2) Creates a new process to liquidate failed financial firms in an orderly manner, including giving the FDIC broader authority to operate or liquidate a failing financial company. 

(3) Establishes a new independent Federal regulatory body for consumer protection within the Federal Reserve System known as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which assumes responsibility for most consumer protection laws (except the Community Reinvestment Act). It is also in charge of setting appropriate consumer banking fees and caps. The Office of Comptroller of the Currency continues to have authority to preempt state banking and consumer protection laws if these laws "prevent or significantly" interfere with the business of banking. 

(4) Places certain limitations on investment and other activities by depository institutions, holding companies and their affiliates, including comprehensive regulation of all over-the-counter derivatives. 

(5) Authorizes the FRB to regulate debit card and certain general-use prepaid card transaction interchange fees paid to issuing banks with assets in excess of $10 billion to ensure that fees are &#8220;reasonable and proportional&#8221; to the cost of processing individual transactions and to prohibit networks and issuers from requiring transactions be processed on a single payment network. 

(6) Effects changes in the FDIC assessment as discussed above. 

Notice and Approval Requirements Related to Control 

Banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution. These laws include the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act. Among other things, these laws require regulatory filings by a shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or bank holding company. The determination whether an investor "controls" a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by family members, affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. If a party's ownership of the Company were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to "control" the Company for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences. 

In addition, except under limited circumstances, bank holding companies are prohibited from acquiring, without prior approval: 

&#8226; 

control of any other bank or bank holding company or all or substantially all the assets thereof; or 

&#8226; 

more than 5% of the voting shares of a bank or bank holding company which is not already a subsidiary. 

Incentive Compensation 

Page-9 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, including us and our bank, having at least $1 billion in total assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The agencies proposed such regulations in April 2011, but the regulations have not been finalized. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives. 

The FRB will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as us, that are not &#8220;large, complex banking organizations.&#8221; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

Available Information 

On our Internet web site, www.bankofmarin.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10-K, Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The text of the Code of Ethical Conduct for Bancorp and the Bank is also included on the website. All such materials on our website are available free of charge. This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link, or to incorporate any website information into this document. In addition, copies of our filings are available by requesting them in writing or by phone from: 

Corporate Secretary 

Bank of Marin Bancorp 

504 Redwood Boulevard, Suite 100 

Novato, CA 94947 

415-763-4523 

Page-10 

