 Item 1. Business General 

Bank of the James Financial Group, Inc. (&#147;Financial&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) is a bank holding company with its headquarters in Lynchburg, Virginia. Financial was incorporated at the direction of Bank of the James (the &#147;Bank&#148; or &#147;Bank of the James&#148;) on October 3, 2003 to serve as a bank holding company of the Bank. Financial acquired all of the shares of the Bank in a statutory share exchange on a one-for-one basis on January 1, 2004. 

The Bank is a Virginia banking corporation headquartered in Lynchburg, Virginia. The Bank was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia as a state chartered bank in 1998 and began banking operations in July 1999. The Bank was organized to engage in general retail and commercial banking business. 

The Bank was organized in part as a response to the loss of many of the Central Virginia, Region 2000 area&#146;s (as defined in below) local financial institutions through mergers with larger, non-local banks and bank holding companies. The organizers perceived that local customers who once relied on experienced personal attention were being forced to use 800 numbers, computerized menus, and persons in other localities who were not familiar with their needs. 

The Bank opened for business on July 22, 1999 to fill this void left in the Region 2000 market. The Bank&#146;s organizers recognized that an opportunity existed to create a banking institution designed exclusively for a market that expected personalized service. The idea was to build a financial institution staffed with experienced professionals who would place a high value on knowing their customers and serving their distinctive banking needs. This remains our philosophy today. 

Management believes that the key to the Bank&#146;s success lies in providing Bank customers with personalized service while providing products and services that meet their banking needs. 

The Bank&#146;s principal office is located at 828 Main Street, Lynchburg, Virginia 24504 and its telephone number is (434) 846-2000. The Bank also maintains a website at www.bankofthejames.com. 

Financial conducts two principal activities: (1) general retail and commercial banking through Bank of the James; (2) mortgage brokerage services through Bank of the James, a division of the Bank. 

In addition, Financial provides securities brokerage services through BOTJ Investment, a division of the Bank and acts as an agent for insurance and annuity products through BOTJ Insurance, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank. The operating results of these business operations have not had a material impact on our financial performance and are not considered principal activities of Financial at this time. 

The Bank, BOTJ Insurance, and BOTJ Investment Group, Inc., a non-operating subsidiary, are our only subsidiaries and primary assets. 

&#160;

Products and Services 

Retail and Commercial Banking 

The Bank currently conducts business within Virginia from ten full-service offices and three limited service offices, one loan production office, and three mortgage production offices. Four of the full-service offices are located in Lynchburg, Virginia, one full-service location is located in Madison Heights, Virginia, one is located in the Town of Amherst, Virginia, one is located in Forest, Virginia, one is located in the City of Bedford, Virginia, one is located in the Town of Altavista, Virginia, and one is located in the City of Harrisonburg, Virginia. Of the limited services branches, one is located in the Westminster-Canterbury facilities in Lynchburg, one is located in the Westminster-Canterbury facilities in Charlottesville, Virginia and one is located in the Pantops area of Charlottesville. The Bank established a mortgage loan origination division that conducts business under the name &#147;Bank of the James Mortgage, a Division of Bank of the James.&#148; The mortgage division conducts business primarily from the division&#146;s main office located in the Forest branch of the Bank. In addition, in 2013 the Bank expanded into Charlottesville with a loan production office (which also houses the limited service branch referenced above) and Roanoke, Virginia with a mortgage/loan production office. For a more detailed description of these facilities, see &#147;Item 2. Properties&#148; below. 

Deposit Services . Deposits are a major source of our funding. The Bank offers a full range of deposit services that are typically available in most banks and other financial institutions including checking accounts, savings accounts and other time deposits of various types, ranging from daily money market accounts to longer-term certificates of deposit. The transaction accounts and time certificates are tailored to the Bank&#146;s market area at rates competitive to those offered in the area. In addition, the Bank offers its customers Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and Health Care Savings Accounts (HSAs). All deposit accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#147;FDIC&#148;) up to the maximum amount allowed by law (generally, $250,000 per depositor, subject to aggregation rules). The Bank solicits such accounts from individuals, businesses, associations and organizations, and governmental authorities. 

Lending Services . The Bank offers a full range of short- to medium-term commercial and consumer loans. Our primary focus is on making loans to small businesses and consumers in the Region 2000 (Lynchburg, Amherst, Bedford, Campbell) area, Charlottesville, Harrisonburg, and Roanoke. In addition, we also provide a wide range of real estate finance services. Commercial loans include both secured and unsecured loans for working capital (including inventory and receivables), business expansion (including acquisition of real estate and improvements), and purchase of equipment and machinery. Consumer loans include secured and unsecured loans for financing automobiles, home improvements, education and personal investments. Additionally, the Bank originates fixed and floating-rate mortgage loans and real estate construction and acquisition loans. Where appropriate, the Bank attempts to limit interest rate risk through the use of variable interest rates and terms of less than five years. 

In general, the Bank offers the following lending services: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercial Business Lending. We make loans to small- and medium-sized businesses in Region 2000, Charlottesville, Harrisonburg, and Roanoke for purposes such as purchases of equipment, facilities upgrades, inventory acquisition and various working capital purposes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Real Estate Construction . We make commercial and residential construction and development loans to customers in our market area. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercial Real Estate Mortgage . We make loans to borrowers secured by commercial real estate. In underwriting these types of loans we consider the historic and projected future cash flows of the real estate. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Consumer . We offer various types of secured and unsecured consumer loans, including personal loans, lines of credit, overdraft lines of credit, automobile loans, installment loans, demand loans, and home equity loans. We make consumer loans primarily for personal, family or household purposes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Loan Participations . We sell loan participations in the ordinary course of business when a loan originated by us exceeds our legal lending limit or we otherwise want to share risk with another bank. We also purchase loan participations from time to time from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse against that bank. Purchased loan participations are underwritten in accordance with our loan policy and represent a source of loan growth. Other Banking Services . Other services offered by the Bank include safe deposit boxes, traveler&#146;s checks, direct deposit of payroll and social security checks, automatic drafts for various accounts, treasury management services and credit card merchant services. The Bank also is associated with a shared network of automated teller machines (ATMs) that may be used by Bank customers throughout Virginia, the United States, and internationally. 

The Bank intends to introduce new products and services desired by the public and as permitted by the regulatory authorities. The Bank remains committed to meeting the challenges that require technology. The Bank provides its customers with access to the latest technological products, such as telephone banking and internet banking, including on-line bill pay. This service allows customers to handle routine transactions using a standard touch tone telephone, applications for mobile devices, and via the internet at the Bank&#146;s website. 

Mortgage Banking. The Bank, through Bank of the James Mortgage, a Division of Bank of the James (the &#147;Mortgage Division&#148;) originates conforming and non-conforming home mortgages primarily in the Region 2000 area. As part of the Bank&#146;s overall risk management strategy, the loans originated and closed by the Mortgage Division are pre-sold to major mortgage banking or other financial institutions. Effective April 1, 2011, the Mortgage Division began funding these pre-sold loans. The loans are transferred promptly, typically within 2 to 3 business days, to the buyer for a pre-arranged price. Management believes that there is acceptable risk associated with this arrangement. 

Other Activities 

We provide brokerage and investment services through the Bank&#146;s Investment division (&#147;Investment&#148;). The Investment division provides securities brokerage services to Bank customers and others through an agreement with Infinex Financial Group, LLC (&#147;Infinex&#148;), a registered broker-dealer. Under our agreement, Infinex operates a service center at 615 Church Street, Lynchburg, Virginia. To date the operating results of the Investment division have not had a material impact on our financial performance. 

We provide insurance and annuity products through BOTJ Insurance as an agent for national insurance companies. As of the date hereof, we offer the following insurance products: credit life, life insurance, fixed annuities, and disability insurance. We began providing these services in September 2008. To date the operating results of BOTJ Insurance have not had a material impact on our financial performance. 

Employees 

As of March 17, 2016, we had approximately 125 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by any collective bargaining agreements, and relations with employees are considered excellent. We maintain employee benefit programs that include health insurance, a flexible spending account, a health savings account, and a 401(k) plan. 

&#160;

Location and Market Area 

The Bank&#146;s market area primarily consists of Region 2000, which encompasses the seven jurisdictions of the Town of Altavista, Amherst County, Appomattox County, the City of Bedford, Bedford County, Campbell County, and the City of Lynchburg. Region 2000 supports a diverse, well-rounded economy. U.S. Routes 29, 60, 221, 460 and 501 and State Routes 24 and 40 all pass through the trade area and provide efficient access to other regions of the state. Regional airport service and rail service provide additional transportation channels. 

Total population in the market area equals approximately 252,000. According to the U.S. Census, in 2010 the populations of the localities in the Region 2000 market area were approximately as follows: City of Lynchburg &#150; 76,000; Amherst County &#150; 32,000; Appomattox County &#150; 15,000; Bedford County (including the City of Bedford) &#150; 74,000; Campbell County (including the Town of Altavista) &#150; 55,000. The area is serviced by one daily newspaper and a number of radio and television stations providing diverse media outlets. Median family income in Region 2000 has risen over the past ten years. 

Region 2000 has a broad range of services, light industry, and manufacturing plants. Principal service, industrial, research and development employers include: BWX Technologies, Inc. (nuclear fuel); AREVA (nuclear services); Centra Health, Inc. (health care services); C.B. Fleet, Inc. (medical supplies); Genworth Financial (life insurance and other financial products); Frito-Lay, Inc. (snack foods); Griffin Pipe Products Co. (ductile iron pipe); R.R. Donnelley Printing Inc. (printed products); as well as six colleges including Randolph College, Sweet Briar College, Liberty University, and Lynchburg College. 

In 2013 the Bank expanded into Charlottesville, Virginia (north of Region 2000) with a loan production office which subsequently became a limited service branch and to Roanoke, Virginia (west of Region 2000) with a mortgage production office. As of the first quarter of 2016, the Roanoke office now houses a full time commercial lender within the mortgage production office. 

In 2015 the Bank expanded into Harrisonburg, Virginia (northwest of Region 2000) with a full service branch located at 1391 South High Street. The property was previously used as a bank branch by another financial institution. 

Even with this expansion outside of Region 2000, the Bank continues to consider its primary market to be Region 2000. 

Competition 

Retail and Commercial Banking 

The banking business is highly competitive. We compete with other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions operating in the Region 2000 market area and elsewhere. Many of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern federally-insured banks and state regulations governing state chartered banks. As a result, such nonbank competitors may have certain advantages over the Bank in providing certain services. 

Virginia law permits statewide branching by banks. Consequently, the Bank&#146;s market area is a highly competitive, highly branched banking market. Competition in the market area for loans to individuals, small businesses, and professional concerns, the Bank&#146;s target market, is keen, and pricing is important. Most of the Bank&#146;s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and offer certain services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services, that the Bank is not currently providing. Deposit competition is strong and comes from institutions in the market, U.S. Government securities, private issuers of debt obligations and suppliers of other investment alternatives for depositors, among other sources. As a result, the Bank has paid, and may in the future pay, above-market rates to attract deposits. 

&#160;

The adoption of legislation permitting nationwide interstate banking and branching and the use of financial holding companies may also increase competition in the Bank&#146;s market area. See &#147;Supervision and Regulation of Financial&#148; below. 

Mortgage Banking 

The Mortgage Division competes with large national and regional banks, credit unions, regional mortgage lenders and local mortgage brokers. Following 2008, the mortgage industry experienced consolidation. Despite the consolidation, the competition with regard to price has increased as the remaining participants struggle to achieve volume and profitability. The downturn in the housing markets related to declines in real estate values, increased payment defaults and foreclosures have had a dramatic effect on the secondary market. The guidelines surrounding agency business (i.e., loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) have become much more restrictive and the associated mortgage insurance for loans above 80 percent loan-to-value has continued to tighten. These changes in the conventional market have caused a dramatic increase in government lending and state bond programs. The Mortgage Division competes by attracting the top sales people in the industry, providing an operational infrastructure that manages the guideline changes efficiently and effectively, offering a product menu that is both competitive in loan parameters as well as price, and providing consistently high quality customer service. 

The Mortgage Division, like other residential mortgage originators and lenders, would be impacted by the inability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA or the VA to purchase loans. Although the Mortgage Division sells loans to various intermediaries, the ability of these aggregators to purchase loans would be limited if these government-sponsored entities cease to exist or materially limit their purchases of mortgage loans. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

General 

Both Financial, as a bank holding company, and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose specific requirements or restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of virtually all aspects of our operations. The following briefly summarizes the more significant provisions of applicable federal and state laws, certain regulations and the potential impact of such provisions on Financial and the Bank. These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The following summary is qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions discussed. 

Changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on our business and prospects. Our operations may be affected by legislative changes and the policies of various regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the effect that fiscal or monetary policies, economic control, or new federal or state legislation may have on our business and earnings in the future. 

Regulation of Financial 

General . Financial is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), including the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) of annual, quarterly and other reports on the financial condition and performance of the organization. Financial is directly affected by the corporate responsibility and accounting reform legislation signed into law on July 30, 2002, known as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the &#147;SOX Act&#148;), and the related rules and regulations. The SOX Act includes provisions that, among other things, require 

&#160;

that periodic reports containing financial statements that are filed with the SEC be accompanied by chief executive officer and chief financial officer certifications as to the accuracy and compliance with law, additional disclosure requirements and corporate governance and other related rules. Although we are not required to receive an opinion of our external auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the SOX Act because of our status as a smaller reporting company, our management&#146;s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth in Item 8 and incorporated into Item 9A herein. Financial has expended considerable time and money in complying with the SOX Act and expects to continue to incur additional expenses in the future. 

Bank Holding Company Act . As a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the &#147;BHCA&#148;), Financial is subject to regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;Federal Reserve Board&#148;). Financial is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board an annual report and such other additional information as the Federal Reserve Board may require pursuant to the BHCA. 

The Federal Reserve Board requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial strength and to take measures to preserve and protect its bank subsidiaries. Financial would be compelled by the Federal Reserve Board to invest additional capital in the event the Bank experiences either significant loan losses or rapid growth of loans or deposits. 

The Federal Reserve Board has jurisdiction under the BHCA to approve any bank or non-bank acquisition, merger or consolidation proposed by a bank holding company. The BHCA, and other applicable laws and regulations, generally limit the activities of a bank holding company and its subsidiaries to that of banking, managing or controlling banks, or any other activity that is so closely related to banking or to managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

Since September 1995, the BHCA has permitted bank holding companies from any state to acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, including nationwide and state imposed concentration limits. Banks are also able to branch across state lines, provided certain conditions are met, including that applicable state laws expressly permit such interstate branching. Virginia has adopted legislation that permits branching across state lines, provided there is reciprocity with the state in which the out-of-state bank is based. 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 . The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the &#147;GLB Act&#148;) which was effective March 11, 2000, permits bank holding companies to become financial holding companies and thereby affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. A bank holding company may become a financial holding company by filing a declaration that the bank holding company wishes to become a financial holding company if each of its subsidiary banks (i) is well capitalized under regulatory prompt corrective action provisions, (ii) is well managed, and (iii) has at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (&#147;CRA&#148;). No regulatory approval will be required for a financial holding company to acquire a company, other than a bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board. 

The GLB Act defines &#147;financial in nature&#148; to include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking activities; and activities that the Board has determined to be closely related to banking. Subsidiary banks of a financial holding company must continue to be well capitalized and well managed in order to continue to engage in activities that are financial in nature without regulatory actions or restrictions, which could include divestiture of the financial in nature subsidiary or subsidiaries. In addition, a financial holding company or a bank may not acquire a company that is engaged in activities that are financial in nature unless each of the subsidiary banks of the financial holding company or the bank has a CRA rating of satisfactory or better. 

&#160;

The GLB Act also imposes customer privacy requirements on financial institutions. Financial institutions generally are prohibited from disclosing customer information to non-affiliated third parties, unless the customer has been given the opportunity to object and has not objected to such disclosure. Financial institutions must disclose their specific privacy policies to their customers annually. Upon making such disclosure, there is no specific restriction on financial institutions disclosing customer information to affiliated parties. Financial institutions must comply with state law, however, if it protects customer privacy more fully than federal law. 

The cumulative effect of the GLB Act and other recent bank legislation has caused us to strengthen our staff to handle the procedures required by this additional regulation. The increased staff and operational costs have impacted our profitability. Although the above laws may have a significant impact on the banking industry by promoting, among other things, competition, it is not possible for the management of the Bank to determine, with any degree of certainty, the impact of such laws on the Bank. 

Mergers and Acquisitions . The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to permit adequately capitalized and adequately managed bank holding companies to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of an out-of-state bank or bank holding company, subject to certain conditions, including nationwide and state concentration limits. Banks also are able to branch across state lines, provided certain conditions are met, including that applicable state law must expressly permit such interstate branching. Virginia law permits branching across state lines, provided there is reciprocity with the state in which the out-of-state bank is based. 

Limits on the Payment of Dividends . Financial is a legal entity, separate and distinct from the Bank. Financial currently does not have any significant sources of revenue other than cash dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. Both Financial and the Bank are subject to laws and regulations that limit the payment of cash dividends, including requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums. As a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System (&#147;state member bank&#148;), the Bank must obtain prior written approval for any cash dividend if the total of all dividends declared in any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years. 

Banking regulators have indicated that Virginia banking organizations should generally pay dividends only (1) from net undivided profits of the bank, after providing for all expenses, losses, interest and taxes accrued or due by the bank and (2) if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization&#146;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) prohibits insured depository institutions such as the Bank from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become undercapitalized as defined in the statute. In addition, the Federal Reserve is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe and unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. The payment of dividends that deplete a bank&#146;s capital base could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The Federal Reserve has indicated that banking organizations generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, under Virginia law, no dividend may be declared or paid out of a Virginia bank&#146;s paid-in capital. The Bank may be prohibited under Virginia law from the payment of dividends if the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions determines that a limitation of dividends is in the public interest and is necessary to ensure the Bank&#146;s financial soundness, and may also permit the payment of dividends not otherwise allowed by Virginia law. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#147;Dodd-Frank Reform Act&#148;) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, although many of its provisions (e.g., the interchange and trust preferred capital limitations) apply to companies that are significantly larger than 

&#160;

Financial. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act directs applicable regulatory authorities to promulgate regulations implementing its provisions, and its effect on Financial and on the financial services industry as a whole will be clarified as those regulations are issued. Major elements of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital, eliminated the ceiling on the size of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) and increased the floor applicable to the size of the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act also made permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance and increased the cash limit of Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection from $100,000 to $250,000. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act required new disclosure relating to executive compensation and corporate governance. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act implemented amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act established the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will be responsible for identifying and monitoring systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities, and practices. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act amended the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) to, among other things, require that debit card interchange fees must be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. In June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted regulations setting the maximum permissible interchange fee as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, with an additional adjustment of up to one cent per transaction if the issuer implements additional fraud-prevention standards. Although issuers that have assets of less than $10 billion are exempt from the Federal Reserve Board&#146;s regulations that set maximum interchange fees, these regulations are expected to significantly affect the interchange fees that financial institutions with less than $10 billion in assets are able to collect. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act eliminated (over time) the inclusion of trust preferred securities as a permitted element of Tier 1 capital. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act created a special regime to allow for the orderly liquidation of systemically important financial companies, including the establishment of an orderly liquidation fund. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act requires the development of regulations to address derivatives markets, including clearing and exchange trading requirements and a framework for regulating derivatives-market participants. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act enhanced supervision of credit rating agencies through the Office of Credit Ratings within the SEC. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Dodd-Frank Reform Act established a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, within the Federal Reserve, to serve as a dedicated consumer-protection regulatory body. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws for institutions with more than $10 billion of assets and, to a lesser extent, small institutions. As a smaller institution, most consumer protection aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to be overseen by the Federal Reserve. &#160;

Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate the overall impact of the act on Financial. Financial continues to evaluate the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. 

Economic Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008 In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the &#147;EESA&#148;) was signed into law. Through its authority under the EESA, the Treasury announced in October 2008 the Troubled Asset Relief Program&#151;Capital Purchase Program (the &#147;CPP&#148;) a program designed to bolster healthy institutions, like Financial, by making $250 billion of capital available to U.S. financial institutions in the form of preferred stock. Participants in the CPP are subject to executive compensation limits and are encouraged to expand their lending and mortgage loan modifications. Although Financial received preliminary approval from the United States Treasury to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Financial decided not to participate in the program. 

Regardless of our lack of participation in certain programs, governmental intervention and new regulations under these programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the FDIC issued a comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#146;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization&#146;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#146;s board of directors. 

The Federal Reserve will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as Financial, that are not &#147;large, complex banking organizations.&#148; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#146;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#146;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#146;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#146;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies to establish joint regulations or guidelines that require financial institutions with assets of at least $1 billion to disclose the structure of their incentive compensation practices and prohibit such institutions from maintaining compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk-taking by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss to the financial institution. 

&#160;

Regulation of the Bank 

The Bank is a Virginia chartered commercial bank and a state member bank. The Bank&#146;s deposit accounts are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the maximum legal limits of the FDIC and it is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve. The regulations of these various agencies govern most aspects of the Bank&#146;s business, including required reserves against deposits, loans, investments, mergers and acquisitions, borrowings, dividends and location and number of branch offices. The laws and regulations governing the Bank generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not for the purpose of protecting shareholders. 

General . As a state-chartered commercial bank, the Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve and the Virginia State Corporation Commission&#146;s Bureau of Financial Institutions (the &#147;Commission&#148;). As such, the Bank is subject to various statutes and regulations administered by these agencies that govern, among other things, required reserves, investments, loans, lending limits, acquisitions of fixed assets, interest rates payable on deposits, transactions among affiliates and the Bank, the payment of dividends, mergers and consolidations, and establishment of branch offices. 

The earnings of the Bank are affected by general economic conditions, management policies and the legislative and governmental actions of the various regulatory authorities, including those referred to above. 

FDIC Insurance Premiums. The Bank has deposits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). FDIC maintains a Deposit Insurance Fund (&#147;DIF&#148;) that is funded by risk-based insurance premium assessments on insured depository institutions. Assessments are determined based upon several factors, including the level of regulatory capital and the results of regulatory examinations. FDIC may adjust assessments if the insured institution&#146;s risk profile changes or if the size of the DIF declines in relation to the total amount of insured deposits. In 2015, the Bank expensed $331,000 in FDIC assessments which compared to $262,000 in 2014. Any increases in FDIC insurance premiums could adversely affect the Bank&#146;s profitability. 

Deposits at FDIC-insured institutions are insured up to $250,000 per depositor, subject to aggregation rules. 

After giving primary regulators an opportunity to first take action, FDIC may initiate an enforcement action against any depository institution it determines is engaging in unsafe or unsound actions or which is in an unsound condition, and the FDIC may terminate that institution&#146;s deposit insurance. 

New Capital Requirements . On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a series of proposed rules that would revise and strengthen its risk-based and leverage capital requirements and its method for calculating risk-weighted assets. The rules were proposed to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved certain revisions to the proposals and finalized new capital requirements for banking organizations. 

Effective January 1, 2015, the final rules required Financial and the Bank to comply with the following new minimum capital ratios: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets (increased from the previous requirement of 4.0%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets (unchanged from the previous requirement); and (iv) a leverage ratio of 4.0% of total assets. These are the initial capital requirements, which will be phased in over a five-year period. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the rules will require Financial and the Bank to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; (which is added to the 4.5% common 

&#160;

equity Tier 1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation), and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

With respect to the Bank, the rules also revised the &#147;prompt corrective action&#148; regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA by (i) introducing a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum ratio for well-capitalized status being 8.0% (as compared to the previous 6.0%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3.0% Tier 1 leverage ratio and still be well-capitalized. 

The new capital requirements also include changes in the risk weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and nonresidential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status, a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable, a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, and increased risk-weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

If the new minimum capital ratios described above had been effective as of December 31, 2014, based on management&#146;s interpretation and understanding of the new rules, Financial would have remained &#147;well capitalized&#148; as of such date. 

Transactions with Affiliates . The Bank is subject to the provisions of Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Bank which place limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to affiliates (as defined in the Federal Reserve Act), investments in or certain other transactions with affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. The law and regulation limit the aggregate amount of transactions with any individual affiliate to ten percent (10%) of the capital and surplus of the Bank and also limit the aggregate amount of transactions with all affiliates to twenty percent (20%) of capital and surplus. Loans and certain other extensions of credit to affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in the regulation, and the purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. The law and Regulation W also, among other things, prohibit an institution from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates (as defined in the Federal Reserve Act) unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such institution and/or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated entities. In the absence of comparable transactions, such transactions may only occur under terms and circumstances, including credit standards that in good faith would be offered to or would apply to non-affiliated companies. 

&#160;

Loans to Insiders. The Bank is subject to the restrictions contained in Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve Board&#146;s Regulation O thereunder on loans to executive officers, directors and principal stockholders. Under Section 22(h), loans to a director, an executive officer or a greater-than-10% stockholder of a bank as well as certain affiliated interests of any of the foregoing may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and affiliated interests, the loans-to-one-borrower limit applicable to national banks (generally 15% of the institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and surplus), and all loans to all such persons in the aggregate may not exceed the institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Regulation O also prohibits the making of loans in an amount greater than $25,000 or 5% of capital and surplus but in any event not over $500,000, to directors, executive officers and greater-than-10% stockholders of a bank, and their respective affiliates, unless such loans are approved in advance by a majority of the board of directors of the bank with any &#147;interested&#148; director not participating in the voting. Furthermore, Regulation O requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of a bank be made on terms substantially the same as those that are offered in comparable transactions to unrelated third parties unless the loans are made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the bank and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. Regulation O also prohibits a depository institution from paying overdrafts over $1,000 of any of its executive officers or directors unless they are paid pursuant to written pre-authorized extension of credit or transfer of funds plans. 

All of the Bank&#146;s loans to its and the Company&#146;s executive officers, directors and greater-than-10% stockholders, and affiliated interests of such persons, comply with the requirements of Regulation W and Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O. 

Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act (&#147;CRA&#148;) requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their respective jurisdictions, the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Office of Thrift Supervision shall evaluate the record of the financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of their local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of those institutions. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#146;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. An institution&#146;s CRA activities are considered in, among other things, evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility, as well as determining whether the institution will be permitted to exercise certain of the powers allowed by the GLB Act. The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank currently has a CRA rating of &#147;satisfactory.&#148; 

Safety and Soundness . The federal banking agencies have broad powers under current federal law to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institutions in question are &#147;well capitalized,&#148; &#147;adequately capitalized,&#148; &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; &#147;significantly undercapitalized,&#148; or &#147;critically undercapitalized,&#148; all such terms are defined under uniform regulations defining such capital levels issued by each of the federal banking agencies. An insured depository institution which is less than adequately capitalized must adopt an acceptable capital restoration plan, is subject to increased regulatory oversight and is increasingly restricted in the scope of its permissible activities. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was considered &#147;well capitalized.&#148; 

Regulatory Enforcement Authority . Applicable banking laws include substantial enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inactions, including the filing of misleading or untimely reports with regulatory authorities, may provide the basis for enforcement action. 

&#160;

Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). Under the Bank Secrecy Act, a financial institution is required to have systems in place to detect certain transactions, based on the size and nature of the transaction. Financial institutions are generally required to report cash transactions involving more than $10,000 to the Treasury. In addition, financial institutions are required to file suspicious activity reports for transactions that involve more than $5,000 and which the financial institution knows, suspects or has reason to suspect, involves illegal funds, is designed to evade the requirements of the BSA or has no lawful purpose. 

USA Patriot Act . The USA Patriot Act became effective on October 26, 2001 and provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. Among other provisions, the USA Patriot Act permits financial institutions, upon providing notice to the United States Treasury, to share information with one another in order to better identify and report to the federal government concerning activities that may involve money laundering or terrorist activities. The USA Patriot Act is considered a significant banking law in terms of information disclosure regarding certain customer transactions. Although it does create a reporting obligation, the USA Patriot Act has not to materially affected the Bank&#146;s products, services or other business activities. 

Reporting Terrorist Activities . The Federal Bureau of Investigation (&#147;FBI&#148;) has sent, and will send, our banking regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington, DC. The Bank has been asked, and may be asked again, to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists. If the Bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must file a suspicious activity report and contact the FBI. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#147;OFAC&#148;), which is a division of the Department of the Treasury is responsible for helping to ensure that United States entities do not engage in transactions with &#147;enemies&#148; of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC has sent, and will send, our banking regulatory agencies lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts. If the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the FBI. The Bank has appointed an OFAC compliance officer to oversee the inspection of its accounts and the filing of any notifications. The Bank actively checks high-risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. The Bank performs these checks utilizing software, which is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. 

Mortgage Banking Regulation . The Bank&#146;s Mortgage division is subject to the rules and regulations by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (&#147;HUD&#148;), the Federal Housing Administration (the &#147;FHA&#148;), the Department of Veteran Affairs and state regulatory authorities with respect to originating, processing, servicing and selling mortgage loans. Those rules and regulations, among other things, establish standards for loan origination, prohibit discrimination, provide for inspections and appraisals of property, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and, in some cases, restrict certain loan features, and fix maximum interest rates and fees. In addition to other federal laws, mortgage origination activities are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth-in-Lending Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. These laws prohibit discrimination, require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit and settlement costs, limit payment for settlement services to the reasonable value of the services rendered and require the maintenance and disclosure of information regarding the disposition of mortgage applications based on race, gender, geographical distribution and income level. 

Check Clearing for the 21 st Century Act (Check 21). Check 21 gives &#147;substitute checks,&#148; such as a digital image of a check and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check. The major provisions of Check 21 include: allowing check truncation without making it mandatory; demanding that every financial institution communicate to account holders in writing a description of its 

&#160;

substitute check processing program and their rights under the law; legalizing substitutions for and replacements of paper checks without agreement from consumers; retaining in place the previously-mandated electronic collection and return of checks between financial institutions only when individual agreements are in place; requiring that when account holders request verification, financial institutions produce the original check (or a copy that accurately represents the original) and demonstrate that the account debit was accurate and valid; and requiring recrediting of funds to an individual&#146;s account on the next business day after a consumer proves that the financial institution has erred. This legislation has not significantly increased our capital spending. 

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies 

Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Bank&#146;s monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have major effects upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its open market operations in United States government securities and through its regulation of the discount rate on borrowings of member banks and the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. 

Future Regulatory Uncertainty 

Legislative and regulatory proposals regarding changes in banking, and the regulation of banks, federal savings institutions, and other financial institutions and bank and bank holding company powers are being considered by the executive branch of the federal government, Congress and various state governments. Certain of these proposals, if adopted, could significantly change the regulation or operations of banks and the financial services industry. New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations, and competitive relationships of the nation&#146;s financial institutions. 

Because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. The current economic environment has required a greater degree of coordination and overlap of the duties and responsibilities of the U.S. Treasury, federal and state banking regulators and the FDIC. We fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. 

&#160;

