 ITEM 1. 

Business 

Overview 

Broadridge, a Delaware corporation, is a leading global provider of investor communications and technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, mutual funds and corporate issuers. Our services include investor and customer communications, securities processing, and data and analytics solutions. In short, we provide the infrastructure that helps the financial services industry operate. With over 50 years of experience, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated systems. Our systems help reduce the need for clients to make significant capital investments in operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their focus on core business activities. We deliver a broad range of solutions that help our clients better serve their retail and institutional customers across the entire investment lifecycle, including pre-trade, trade, and post-trade processing functionality. 

Our businesses operate in two reportable segments: Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations. We serve a large and diverse client base across four client groups: capital markets, asset management, wealth management and corporations. 

For capital markets firms, we help our clients lower costs and improve the effectiveness of their trade and account processing operations with support for middle- and back-office operations, administration, finance, and risk and compliance. For asset management firms, we support cross-asset, multi-currency investing across a range of brokers and executing venues from a single technology and operating solution. For wealth management firms, we provide advisors with tools to create a better investor experience, while also giving them a more streamlined, efficient, and effective process. And we help corporations manage every aspect of their shareholder communications-from registered and beneficial proxy processing, to annual meeting support and transfer agency services. 

Investor Communication Solutions 

We offer Bank/Broker-Dealer Investor Communication Solutions, Customer Communication Solutions, Corporate Issuer Solutions, Advisor Solutions and Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions through this segment. A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation of related vote processing. In fiscal year 2016, we processed approximately 80% of the outstanding shares in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) in the performance of our proxy services. ProxyEdge &#174; , our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors, helps ensure the voting participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. We also provide the distribution of regulatory reports and corporate action/reorganization event information, as well as tax reporting solutions that help our clients meet their regulatory compliance needs. 

We also provide customer communications, financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to financial services firms, corporations and mutual funds. These services include the processing and distribution of account statements and trade confirmations, traditional and personalized document fulfillment and content management services, marketing communications, and imaging, archival and workflow solutions that enable and enhance our clients&#8217; communications with investors and customers. All of these communications are delivered through print, electronic or digital channels. In fiscal year 2016, we processed over two billion investor and customer communications through a combination of print, electronic or digital channels. In addition, we provide corporations with registered proxy services as well as registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. 

Our advisor solutions enable firms, financial advisors, wealth managers, and insurance agents to better engage with customers through cloud-based marketing and customer communication tools. Our marketing ecosystem integrates data, content and technology to drive new client acquisition and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars and a library of financial planning topics as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Our advisor solutions also help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting. We currently support approximately 100,000 professionals at more than 250 financial firms with our advisor solutions. 

Our mutual fund and retirement solutions are a full range of tools for mutual funds, exchange traded fund (&#8220;ETF&#8221;) providers, and asset management firms. They include data-driven technology solutions for data management, analytics, investment accounting, marketing and customer communications. In addition, we provide mutual fund trade processing services for retirement providers, third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through our subsidiary, Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;Matrix&#8221;). 

Global Technology and Operations 

We are the leading middle- and back-office securities processing platform for North American and global broker-dealers. We offer a suite of advanced computerized real-time transaction processing services that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, settlement, reference data, reconciliations and accounting. Our services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. Provided on an application service provider (&#8220;ASP&#8221;) basis, our platform is a global market solution, clearing and settling in over 70 countries. Our multi-currency solutions support real-time global trading of equity, fixed income, mutual fund, foreign exchange, and exchange traded derivative securities in established and emerging markets. We process on average over $5 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities. 

We also provide business process outsourcing services that are known as our Managed Services solution, which supports the operations of our clients&#8217; businesses including their securities clearing, record-keeping, and custody-related functions. Our clients execute and clear their securities transactions and engage us to perform a number of related administrative back-office functions, such as record-keeping and reconciliations. In this capacity, we are not the broker-dealer of record. 

History and Development of Our Company 

We are the former Brokerage Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (&#8220;ADP&#8221;). Broadridge was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. We spun off from ADP and began operating as an independent public company on March 30, 2007. Our company has over 50 years of history in providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. In 1962, the Brokerage Services division of ADP opened for business with one client, processing an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, we expanded our U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities. 

We made significant additions to our Global Technology and Operations business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems. 

We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which started what has become our Investor Communication Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Global Technology and Operations business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we acquired The Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for securities held of record by banks and broker-dealers in the U.S.-from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution for international proxies. 

In 1994, we began offering ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors that helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our securities processing and proxy clients, we decided to focus on account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released PostEdge &#174; &#32;to meet the need for electronic distribution and archiving of all investor communications. In 2010, we entered the transfer agency business through an acquisition of a provider of registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. 

In fiscal year 2011, we acquired three businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment. In August 2010, we acquired NewRiver, Inc. (&#8220;NewRiver&#8221;), a leader in mutual fund electronic investor disclosure solutions. In December 2010, we acquired Forefield, Inc. (&#8220;Forefield&#8221;), a leading provider of real-time sales, education and client communication solutions for financial institutions and their advisors. In January 2011, we acquired Matrix, a provider of mutual fund processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals. Matrix&#8217;s back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund and ETF settlement services are integrated into our product suite thereby strengthening Broadridge&#8217;s role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry. 

The Company has also acquired businesses in the Global Technology and Operations segment. In fiscal year 2010, the Company acquired City Networks Ltd, a leading software and services provider of reconciliation, multi-asset process automation and operational risk management solutions to the global financial services industry. In fiscal year 2012, the Company acquired Paladyne Systems, Inc., now known as Broadridge Investment Management Solutions, a provider of buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry. 

In fiscal year 2014, we completed the acquisitions of two businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment. In July 2013, we acquired Bonaire Software Solutions, LLC (&#8220;Bonaire&#8221;), a leading provider of fee calculation, billing, and revenue and expense management solutions for asset managers including institutional asset managers, wealth managers, mutual funds, bank trusts, hedge funds and capital markets firms. In February 2014, we acquired Emerald Connect, LLC (&#8220;Emerald&#8221;), a leading provider of websites and related communications solutions for financial advisors. 

In fiscal year 2015, we completed the acquisitions of three businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment. In March 2015, we acquired Direxxis LLC (&#8220;Direxxis&#8221;), a provider of cloud-based marketing solutions and services for financial advisors. In April 2015, we acquired the trade processing business of the Wilmington Trust Retirement and Institutional Services unit of M&#38;T Bank Corporation (&#8220;WTRIS&#8221;). This business has been combined with our mutual fund and ETF trade processing platform. In June 2016 , we acquired the Fiduciary Services and Competitive Intelligence unit (&#8220;FSCI&#8221;) from Thomson Reuters&#8217; Lipper division, now known as Broadridge Fund Information Services. This acquisition expanded the Company&#8217;s enterprise data and analytics solutions for mutual fund manufacturers, ETF issuers, and fund administrators, adding new global data and research capabilities. 

Also in fiscal year 2015, we completed the acquisition of one business in the Global Technology and Operations segment. In December 2014, we acquired TwoFour Systems LLC (&#8220;TwoFour Systems&#8221;), now known as Broadridge FX and Liquidity Solutions, a provider of real-time foreign exchange solutions for capital market firms. 

In fiscal year 2016, we acquired one business in each of the Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations segments. In November 2015, we acquired QED Financial Systems, Inc. (&#8220;QED&#8221;), a provider of investment accounting solutions that serves public sector institutional investors. In June 2016, we acquired 4sight Financial Software Limited (&#8220;4sight Financial&#8221;), a global provider of securities financing and collateral management systems to financial institutions. 

In July 2016, shortly after the end of the 2016 fiscal year, we completed the acquisition of the North American Customer Communications (&#8220;NACC&#8221;) business of DST Systems, Inc. NACC is a leading provider of customer communication services including print and digital communication solutions, content management, postal optimization, and fulfillment. The NACC business will be integrated into our existing customer communications business and is now known as Broadridge Customer Communications. 

The Broadridge Business 

Investor Communication Solutions 

A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies&#8217; records in the names of their ultimate beneficial owners. Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies&#8217; shares are held in &#8220;street name,&#8221; meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most street name shares are registered in the name &#8220;Cede &#38; Co.,&#8221; the name used by The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (&#8220;DTCC&#8221;), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known as &#8220;Nominees&#8221; because they hold securities in name only) in turn hold the shares on behalf of their clients, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide companies with lists of beneficial owners who do not object to having their names, addresses, and share holdings supplied to companies, so called &#8220;non-objecting beneficial owners&#8221; (or &#8220;NOBOs&#8221;). Objecting beneficial owners (or &#8220;OBOs&#8221;) may be contacted directly only by the broker-dealer or bank. 

Because DTCC&#8217;s role is only that of custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in order to pass the legal rights it holds as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the &#8220;omnibus proxy,&#8221; which DTCC executes to transfer its voting rights to its participant Nominees. 

Under applicable rules, Nominees must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and request voting instructions. A large number of Nominees have contracted out the administrative processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by entering agreements with us and by transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a proxy, which authority they receive from DTCC (via omnibus proxy). Through our agreements with Nominees for the provision of beneficial proxy services, we take on the responsibility of ensuring that the account holders of Nominees receive proxy materials, and that their voting instructions are conveyed to the companies conducting solicitations. In addition, we take on the responsibility of ensuring that these services are fulfilled in accordance with each company&#8217;s requirements with respect to its particular solicitation. In order for us to provide the beneficial proxy services effectively, we interface and coordinate directly with each company to ensure that the services are performed in an accurate and acceptable manner. 

Given the large number of Nominees involved in the beneficial proxy process resulting from the large number of beneficial shareholders, we play a unique, central and integral role in ensuring that the beneficial proxy process occurs without issue. Because it would be impracticable and would also increase the costs for companies to work with all of the Nominees through which their shares are held beneficially, companies work with us for the performance of all the tasks and processes necessary to ensure that proxy materials are distributed to all beneficial owners and that their votes are accurately reported. 

Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) rules require public companies to reimburse Nominees for the expense of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of self-regulatory organizations (&#8220;SROs&#8221;), including the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;). We bill public companies for the proxy services performed, collect the fees and remit to the Nominee its portion of the fees. In addition, the NYSE rules establish fees specifically for the services provided by intermediaries in the proxy process, such as Broadridge. 

We also compile NOBO lists on behalf of Nominees in response to requests from issuers. The preparation of NOBO lists is subject to reimbursement by the securities issuers requesting such lists to the broker-dealers. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs on the list produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. The rules also provide for certain fees to be paid to third party intermediaries who compile NOBO lists. We function as an intermediary in the NOBO process. 

We also provide proxy distribution, vote tabulation, and various additional investor communication tools and services to institutional investors, corporate issuers, investment companies and financial advisors. 

Segment revenues represented approximately 77% , 75%, and 74% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. These services include the following: 

Bank/Broker-Dealer Investor Communication Solutions . We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our capital markets clients on-line and in real-time, from coordination with third party entities to ordering, inventory maintenance, mailing, tracking and vote tabulation. We offer electronic proxy delivery services for the electronic delivery of proxy materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a database that contains the delivery method preferences of our clients&#8217; customers; posting of documents on the Internet; e-mail notification to investors notifying them that proxy materials are available; and proxy voting over the Internet, mobile devices and tablets. We also have the ability to combine stockholder communications for multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of international proxies. We also provide a complete reorganization communications solution to notify investors of reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and class action lawsuits. 

We provide institutional investors with a suite of services to manage the entire proxy voting process, including fulfilling their fiduciary obligations and meeting their reporting needs, such as ProxyEdge, our workflow solution that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and presents them under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group or on an individual account basis either manually or automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research providers. ProxyEdge also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global custodian clients. ProxyEdge is offered in several languages and there are currently approximately 5,600 ProxyEdge users worldwide 

In addition, we offer our Mailbox products-Advisor Mailbox &#8482; &#32;and Investor Mailbox &#174; -which support and complement any investor communication strategy. Our Investor Mailbox solution provides the electronic delivery of investor communications to our clients&#8217; websites, enabling investor access to regulatory delivery notices, day-to-day account and investment information and convenient response tools. Our Advisor Mailbox is an electronic communications platform for financial advisors that delivers immediate electronic access to the communications and documents sent to such advisors&#8217; customers. Advisor Mailbox streamlines multiple communication paths for all investor-related documents into a single-visit portal that is integrated onto an advisor&#8217;s platform. 

We also provide tax services to financial services firms that support their various daily workflows, supervisory control and client reporting requirements for information reporting (e.g., Forms 1099 and 1042-S), with a focus on securities and fund processing and clearance operations. Our tax data services provide tax content and data management, including securities tax classifications and reclassifications, calculations of original issue discount and other accrual and cost basis adjusting events. Our tax managed services provide technology and client reporting, including print and electronic distribution and archival. 

Our NewRiver business provides important capabilities for the broker-dealer and retirement and annuity markets. Specifically, NewRiver&#8217;s proprietary extraction, normalization and presentment capabilities from the SEC&#8217;s EDGAR 

database have enabled us to enhance our prospectus post-sale fulfillment operations by moving to an on-demand solution. This process provides efficiency for our clients as it reduces their reliance on offset print and fund delivered inventory. Broadridge has also been able to leverage the intellectual property in this business to provide portfolio-specific solutions for the retirement and annuity markets. Through our integration of this functionality into our existing capabilities, we offer a new and efficient fulfillment model for regulatory and compliance mailings. 

Our Global Securities Class Action (&#8220;GSCA&#8221;) solution is a securities class action monitoring, notification, and filing service for broker-dealers, trust banks, hedge funds, mutual funds and the advisor markets. We currently have over 400 GSCA clients. 

Customer Communication Solutions. We offer our capital markets, corporate and mutual fund clients with customer communications, financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to help them meet their regulatory compliance requirements and business needs including: prospectus fulfillment services; electronic prospectus services; PostEdge, our electronic document archival and electronic delivery solution for documents including trade confirmations, tax documents and account statements; marketing communications; imaging, archival and workflow solutions; and on-demand digital print services. In July 2016, shortly after the end of the 2016 fiscal year, we completed the acquisition of the NACC business of DST Systems, Inc. NACC is a leading provider of customer communication services including print and digital communication solutions, content management, postal optimization, and fulfillment. The NACC business will be integrated into our existing customer communications business and is now known as Broadridge Customer Communications. The majority of the services we provide through this business are for capital markets and mutual fund clients. The acquisition of the NACC business adds clients in the healthcare industries, insurance, consumer finance, video/broadband, telecommunications, utilities, retail and other service industries. 

Corporate Issuer Solutions . &#32;We are the largest processor and provider of investor communication solutions to public companies through the performance of beneficial proxy services for our bank and broker-dealer clients. We offer our corporate issuer clients many tools to facilitate their communications with investors such as Internet and telephone proxy voting, electronic delivery of corporate filings, and householding of communications to stockholders at the same address. One of our opportunities for growth in the Investor Communication Solutions segment involves serving corporate issuer clients in providing communications services to registered stockholders&#8212;that is, stockholders who do not hold their shares through a broker-dealer in street name and instead hold their shares directly on the books and records of the issuer. We also offer proxy services to non-North American corporate issuers in connection with their general and special meetings of stockholders. Our corporate issuer services include ShareLink &#174; , which provides complete project management for the beneficial and registered proxy process. 

We also provide registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Our strategy in the transfer agency business is to address the needs public companies have expressed for more efficient and reliable stockholder record maintenance and communication services. We are accomplishing this by leveraging our investor communications and securities processing capabilities to enable us to deliver enhanced transfer agency services to corporate issuers. In addition, we offer issuers and their shareholders the ability to migrate their shareholders&#8217; holdings from registered to beneficial ownership, thereby creating efficiencies for issuers and greater convenience for their shareholders. 

Our Virtual Shareholder Meeting &#8482; &#32;service provides corporate issuers with the ability to host their annual meeting electronically on the Internet, either on a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with their physical annual meeting where permitted by state corporate law. As the provider of beneficial shareholder proxy processing on behalf of many banks and brokerage firms, we provide shareholder validation and voting services to companies that want to hold virtual meetings. Our Shareholder Forum &#8482; &#32;solution is an online venue that offers public companies the ability to host structured, controlled communication with their shareholders on a timely and regular basis. Validated shareholders can submit questions, answer surveys in preparation of the annual meeting and year-round, and communicate in various ways with a corporation. 

In fiscal year 2014, we introduced Shareholder Data Services, a platform integrating three new capabilities for corporate issuers: an analytics engine for obtaining a comprehensive view of a company&#8217;s shareholder base - both registered and beneficial shareholders; custom targeted communications for reaching discrete shareholder segments based on specific criteria; and response reporting for evaluating results of targeted reminder mailings to shareholders. Shareholder Data Services enables companies to better plan and prepare for the proxy process by leveraging information about historical patterns of shareholder participation and behavior in the design of communication strategies with targeted segments of shareholders. Companies can also monitor progress of their proxy voting and easily take action when voting requirements or voting thresholds are at risk. Combined with the ability to measure their shareholders&#8217; response to communications, this product suite also enables companies to capture valuable aggregated voting behavior data as a basis for on-going investor communications initiatives. 

&#160; 

To further complement our Shareholder Data Services, we introduced an Enhanced Packaging service for annual meeting materials for the 2015 proxy season. Enhanced Packaging offers windowed envelope options enabling issuers to engage their shareholders before they even open the envelope through call-to-action messaging, product highlights or simply showcasing the annual report. Higher shareholder engagement through Enhanced Packaging creates opportunity for issuers to improve proxy voting participation as well as increase brand loyalty. 

Advisor Solutions. We deliver business critical data, technology products and marketing services to financial advisors. We have created a suite of solutions through the acquisition of four businesses - Forefield, Emerald, Investigo and Direxxis. These solutions enable firms, financial advisors, wealth managers, and insurance agents to better engage with customers through cloud-based marketing and customer communication tools. Our marketing ecosystem integrates data, content and technology to drive new client acquisition and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars and a library of financial planning topics as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Our advisor solutions also help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting. 

Our advisor solutions provide financial planning knowledge that enables timely, accurate and meaningful communications among financial institutions, advisors and their customers. We have expanded our services portfolio to leverage our industry leading financial content for use by financial services firms in their social media content libraries. We continue to develop new applications that further the goal of creating timely, accurate and meaningful communications for both advisors and their customers. For example, our Women&#8217;s Resource Center , which contains a broad selection of content for both the advisor and their customer, focuses specifically on the requirements and challenges faced by women investors. 

Our data aggregation solution helps advisors manage and build client relationships by providing customer account data aggregation, performance reporting, household grouping, automated report creation, document storage, and integration with popular financial planning and productivity applications. 

In addition, our advisor solutions enable financial institutions and their advisors to advise, educate and communicate with their customers and prospects through mobile-responsive, content-rich websites, print and digital newsletters, comprehensive and topic-specific seminars, targeted email marketing, and direct mail services to invite clients to seminars and other events. 

We also provide data-driven, cloud-based marketing solutions to broker-dealers, financial advisors, insurers and other firms with large distributed salesforces. Our marketing operations and automation platform enables firms to manage marketing activities efficiently across field offices and branch locations using consistent standards. The platform provides unique data and analytical capabilities designed to increase marketing and sales effectiveness. 

Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions . &#32;We provide a full range of tools that enable mutual funds to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently, reliably, and often with substantial cost savings. Our solutions allow mutual funds to centralize all investor communications through one resource. We also provide printing and mailing of regulatory reports, prospectuses and proxy materials, as well as proxy solicitation services. In addition, we distribute marketing communications and informational materials and create on-demand enrollment materials for mutual fund investors and retirement plan providers. Our position in the industry enables us to manage the entire communications process with both registered and beneficial stockholders. Our Data Aggregation and Analysis platform provides comprehensive data gathering and data management solutions. Our software is delivered as a service and assists mutual funds and investment managers in processing commission and distribution payments, calculating fee revenue, monitoring their compliance with regulatory requirements, and assembling shareholder and intermediary data in a form to better drive their sales strategy and marketing programs. Our financial accounting solution provides private and public asset managers with software tools to effectively manage their revenue and expenses. 

In fiscal year 2015, we expanded our suite of enterprise data and analytics solutions for mutual fund manufacturers, ETF issuers, and fund administrators, and added new global data and research capabilities with the acquisition of the FSCI business from Thomson Reuters&#8217; Lipper division, now known as Broadridge Fund Information Services. 

In addition, we provide mutual fund processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through our subsidiary, Matrix. Our back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund and ETF settlement services are integrated into our product suite, thereby strengthening our role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry. In fiscal year 2015, we expanded the Matrix retirement solutions offering through the acquisition of the trade processing business of M&#38;T Bank Corporation&#8217;s WTRIS unit. 

We recently expanded our offerings to provide asset managers with investment accounting solutions in fiscal year 2016 with the acquisition of QED. QED complements the front- and back- office solutions that we provide to the global asset 

management community including; portfolio management, data and analytics, revenue and expense management, trade processing and shareholder communication solutions. 

Global Technology and Operations 

Transactions involving securities and other financial market instruments originate with an investor, who places an order with a broker who in turn routes that order to an appropriate market for execution. At that point, the parties to the transaction coordinate payment and settlement of the transaction through a clearinghouse. The records of the parties involved must then be updated to reflect completion of the transaction. Tax, custody, accounting and record-keeping requirements must be complied with in connection with the transaction and the customer&#8217;s account information must correctly reflect the transaction. The accurate processing of trading activity and custody activity requires effective automation and information flow across multiple systems and functions within the brokerage firm and across the systems of the various parties that participate in the execution of a transaction. 

Our Global Technology and Operations business provides services that automate the transaction lifecycle of equity, mutual fund, fixed income, and option securities trading operations, from order capture and execution through trade confirmation, settlement, custody and accounting. Our services facilitate the automation of straight-through-processing operations and enable financial institutions and investment managers to efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With our multi-currency capabilities, we support trading activities on a global basis. 

Our Broadridge Investment Management Solutions business provides buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry. Broadridge Investment Management Solutions provides front-, middle-, and back-office solutions such as order management, data warehousing, reporting, reference data management, risk management and portfolio accounting to hedge funds, investment managers and the providers that service this space (prime brokers, hedge fund administrators and custodians). The client base for these services includes start-up or emerging managers through some of the largest global hedge fund complexes and global administrators. We have integrated our business process outsourcing expertise with Broadridge Investment Management Solutions to offer a set of managed services to the buy-side of the industry. The Broadridge Investment Management Solutions business has enhanced the asset classes we service and expanded our global footprint and market coverage. 

In fiscal year 2015, we acquired TwoFour Systems, now known as Broadridge FX and Liquidity Solutions, a provider of real-time foreign exchange solutions for banks and broker-dealers, to address the rising demand for advanced foreign exchange and cash management technology among financial institutions. 

In fiscal year 2016, we acquired 4sight Financial, a global provider of securities financing and collateral management systems to financial institutions. 4sight Financial will be integrated as part of Broadridge Securities Financing and Collateral Management solutions, helping our clients optimize financing decisions across different asset categories, automate the securities financing lifecycle and control risk. 

Segment revenues represented approximately 25% , 26%, and 27% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. These services include the following: 

North American Securities Processing Solutions . &#32;We provide a set of sophisticated, multi-currency systems that support real-time processing of securities transactions in North American equities, options, fixed income securities, and mutual funds. Brokerage Processing Services (&#8220;BPS&#8221;) is our core multi-currency back-office processing system that supports real-time processing of primarily equity and option transactions in the U.S. markets. BPS handles everything from order management to clearance, settlement and custody, and assists our clients in meeting their regulatory reporting and other back-office requirements. BPS is provided on an ASP basis. We also offer a version of BPS for processing Canadian securities. In addition to our BPS offering, we provide specialized transaction processing tools and services for small to mid-market financial firms in Canada. We also provide state-of-the-art fixed income transaction processing capabilities to support clearance, settlement, custody, P&#38;L reporting and regulatory reporting. These transaction processing services are completed by front- and middle-office solutions for wealth management tools, reconciliations, securities lending, reference data management, and enterprise workflow management. 

International Securities Processing Solutions . &#32;We provide advanced real-time, multi-currency post-trade processing solutions to support the processing of a broad range of equity, fixed income, foreign exchange and exchange traded derivative securities for global financial institutions. We primarily offer these services on an ASP basis and support clearance and settlement activities in over 70 countries with direct connectivity solutions in the major markets. These transaction processing services are complemented by our middle-office solutions for reconciliations, reference data management and enterprise 

workflow management. Our solutions can be deployed as a complete post-trade service as well as components within the architecture of financial institutions. 

In 2013, we entered a strategic alliance with Accenture plc (&#8220;Accenture&#8221;) and launched Accenture Post-Trade Processing, combining Accenture&#8217;s global business process outsourcing capabilities and global capital markets industry expertise with Broadridge&#8217;s leading post-trade securities processing technology. The solution provides post-trade processing and technology services to support settlement, books and records, asset servicing, operational management and control, real-time data access and administrative accounting. It is designed to help banks operating in Europe and the Asia Pacific region reduce post-trade processing costs, adapt to new regulations and technology, and quickly and efficiently launch new products and enter new markets. 

Managed Services Solution . &#32;We also provide business process outsourcing services that are known as our Managed Services solution, which supports the operations of our clients&#8217; businesses including their securities clearing, record-keeping, and custody-related functions. Our clients execute and clear their securities transactions and engage us to perform a number of related administrative back-office functions, such as record-keeping and reconciliations. In this capacity, we are not the broker-dealer of record. 

Broadridge&#8217;s Integrated Solutions 

Our core systems for processing equity, option, and mutual fund transactions in the U.S. markets can also be combined with our specialized systems for processing fixed income and international securities transactions. These specialized securities processing services can be fully integrated with our Managed Services solution. In addition, our clients can integrate our securities processing and Managed Services solution with our other services including: (i) the processing of trade confirmations and account statements, delivered in paper or electronically; (ii) equity and mutual fund prospectus processing; (iii) automated workflow tools that help our clients streamline their securities processing and operations activities; and (iv) a full suite of wealth management products including data aggregation tools, end-customer websites, broker desktop, financial planning and modeling tools, performance reporting and portfolio accounting. 

Clients 

We serve a large and diverse client base across four client groups: capital markets, asset management, wealth management and corporations. Our clients in the financial services industry include retail and institutional brokerage firms, global banks, mutual funds, asset managers, insurance companies, &#32; &#32;annuity companies, institutional investors, specialty trading firms, clearing firms, third party administrators, hedge funds, and financial advisors. Our corporate clients are typically publicly held companies. 

In fiscal year 2016 , we: 

&#8226; 

processed approximately 80% of the outstanding shares in the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services; 

&#8226; 

processed over two billion investor and customer communications through either print, electronic or digital channels; and 

&#8226; 

processed on average over $5 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Currently, 18 of the 23 primary dealers of fixed income securities in the U.S. are our clients. 

In fiscal year 2016 , we derived approximately 25% of our consolidated revenues from five clients. Our largest single client accounted for approximately 7% of our consolidated revenues. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Investor Communication Solutions business competes with companies that provide investor communication and corporate governance solutions including transfer agents who handle communication services to registered (non-beneficial) securities holders, proxy advisory firms, proxy solicitation firms and other proxy services providers. We also face competition from numerous firms in the compiling, printing and distribution of transaction confirmations, account statements and other customer communications. Our Global Technology and Operations business principally competes with brokerage firms that perform their trade processing in-house, and with numerous other outsourcing vendors. Our back-office support services offered through this segment also compete with very large financial institutions that manage their own back-office record-keeping operations. In many cases, clients engage us only to perform certain functions, such as back-office processing, and do not outsource their other functions such as clearing operations support that we would also perform for them. 

Technology 

We have several information processing systems which serve as the core foundation of our technology platform. We leverage these systems in order to provide our services. We are committed to maintaining extremely high levels of quality service through our skilled technical employees and the use of our technology within an environment that seeks continual improvement. 

Our mission-critical applications are designed to provide high levels of availability, scalability, reliability, and flexibility. They operate on industry standard enterprise architecture platforms that provide high degrees of horizontal and vertical scaling. This scalability and redundancy allows us to provide high degrees of system availability. In March 2010, we entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the &#8220;IT Services Agreement&#8221;) with International Business Machines Corporation (&#8220;IBM&#8221;), under which IBM performs a broad range of technology services including supporting our mainframe, midrange, open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing disaster recovery services. 

In March 2014, the Company and IBM United Kingdom Limited (&#8220;IBM UK&#8221;) entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the &#8220;EU IT Services Agreement&#8221;), under which IBM UK provides data center services supporting the Company&#8217;s technology outsourcing services for certain clients in Europe and Asia. 

Most of our systems and applications process in Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers employ multiple active power and cooling distribution paths, redundant components, and are capable of providing 99.995% availability. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers provide infrastructure capacity and capability to permit any planned activity without disruption to the critical load, and can sustain at least one worst-case, unplanned failure or event with no critical load impact. Our geographically dispersed processing centers also provide disaster recovery and business continuity processing. 

To further demonstrate our commitment to maintaining the highest levels of quality service, information security, and client satisfaction within an environment that fosters continual improvement, most of our business units and our core applications and facilities for the provision of many services including our proxy services, U.S. equity and fixed income securities processing services, and IBM&#8217;s data centers, are International Organization for Standardization (&#8220;ISO&#8221;) 27001 certified. This security standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented Information Security Management System within the context of the organization&#8217;s overall business risks. It specifies the requirements for the implementation of security controls customized to the needs of individual organizations. This standard addresses confidentiality, access control, vulnerability, business continuity, and risk assessment. Additionally, Broadridge is utilizing the National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (the &#8220;NIST Framework&#8221;) issued by the U.S. government in 2014, as a guideline to manage our cybersecurity-related risk. The NIST Framework outlines 98 information security measures over five functions - Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond and Recover. Also, our operations facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified. 

Product Development. &#32;Our products and services are designed with reliability, availability, scalability, and flexibility so that we can fully meet our clients&#8217; processing needs. These applications are built in a manner which allows us to meet the breadth and depth of requirements of our financial services industry clients in a highly efficient manner. We continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing products and services taking into account input from clients, industry-wide initiatives and regulatory changes affecting our clients. 

Intellectual Property. &#32;We own a portfolio of more than 60 U.S. and non-U.S. patent and patent applications. We also own registered marks for our trade name and own or have applied for trademark registrations for many of our services and products. We regard our products and services as proprietary and utilize internal security practices and confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, clients, and others for protection. We believe that we are the owner or in some cases, the licensee, of all intellectual property and other proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business. 

Employees 

At June 30, 2016 , we had approximately 8,000 employees. On July 1, 2016, shortly after the end of the 2016 fiscal year, we closed the NACC acquisition, bringing the current total number of employees to approximately 10,000. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements governing their employment with our company. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

Regulation 

The securities and financial services industries are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. Due to 

the nature of our services and the markets we serve, these regulatory bodies impact our businesses in the following various manners. 

In the U.S., the securities and financial services industries are subject to regulation under both federal and state laws. At the federal level, the SEC regulates the securities industry, along with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the various stock exchanges, and other SROs. The Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;) regulates retirement plans. Our Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations businesses are generally not directly subject to laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to financial institutions. However, as a provider of services to financial institutions and issuers of securities, our services, such as our proxy distribution and processing services, are provided in a manner to assist our clients in complying with the laws and regulations to which they are subject. As a result, the services we provide may change as applicable laws and regulations are adopted or revised. We monitor legislative and rulemaking activity by the SEC, FINRA, DOL, the stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies that may impact our services, and if new laws or regulations are adopted or changes are made to existing laws or regulations applicable to our services, we expect to adapt our business practices and service offerings to continue to assist our clients in fulfilling their obligations under new or modified requirements. 

Certain aspects of our U.S. operations are subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (&#8220;FFIEC&#8221;), an interagency body of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the National Credit Union Administration and various state regulatory authorities, under its regulatory authority to examine financial institutions&#8217; technology service providers. Periodic examinations by the FFIEC generally include areas such as data privacy, disaster recovery, information security, and third party vendor management to identify potential risks related to our services that could adversely affect our banking and financial services clients. 

Our business process outsourcing and mutual fund processing services are performed by a broker-dealer, Broadridge Business Process Outsourcing, LLC (&#8220;BBPO&#8221;). BBPO is registered with the SEC, is a member of FINRA and is required to participate in the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (&#8220;SIPC&#8221;). Although BBPO&#8217;s FINRA membership agreement allows it to engage in clearing, and the retailing of corporate securities in addition to mutual fund retailing on a wire order basis, BBPO does not clear customer transactions, process any retail business or carry customer accounts. BBPO is subject to regulations concerning many aspects of its business, including trade practices, capital requirements, record retention, money laundering prevention, the protection of customer funds and customer securities, and the supervision of the conduct of directors, officers and employees. A failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the suspension or revocation of SEC or FINRA authorization granted to allow the operation of its business or disqualification of its directors, officers or employees. Recently, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of the securities industry including the outsourcing by firms of their operations or functions. This oversight could result in the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules with respect to business process outsourcing. As a registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA, BBPO is subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (&#8220;Rule 15c3-1&#8221;), which requires BBPO to maintain a minimum net capital amount. At June 30, 2016 , BBPO was in compliance with this capital requirement. 

BBPO, as a &#8220;Managing Clearing Member&#8221; of the Options Clearing Corporation (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;), is also subject to OCC Rule 309(b) with respect to the business process outsourcing services that it provides to other OCC &#8220;Managed Clearing Member&#8221; broker-dealers. OCC Rule 309(b) requires that BBPO maintain a minimum net capital amount. At June 30, 2016 , BBPO was in compliance with this capital requirement. 

In addition, Matrix Trust Company, a subsidiary of Matrix (&#8220;Matrix Trust Company&#8221;), is a Colorado State non-depository trust company and National Securities Clearing Corporation trust member, whose primary business is to provide cash agent, custodial and directed or non-discretionary trust services to institutional customers. As a result, Matrix Trust Company is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the Colorado Division of Banking and other state regulators where it does business, as well as the National Securities Clearing Corporation. Specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, when applicable, must be met. At June 30, 2016 , Matrix Trust Company was in compliance with its capital requirements. 

Our transfer agency business, Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, is subject to certain SEC rules and regulations, including annual reporting, examination, internal controls, proper disposal of shareholder information and obligations relating to its operations. Our transfer agency business has been formally approved by the NYSE to act as a transfer agent or registrar for issuers of NYSE listed securities and as a result, it is subject to certain NYSE requirements concerning operational standards. Furthermore, it is also subject to U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the &#8220;IRS&#8221;) regulations, as well as certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Federal Trade Commission&#8217;s regulations with respect to maintenance of information security safeguards. In addition, state laws govern certain services performed by our transfer agency business. 

Privacy and Information Security Regulations 

The processing and transfer of personal information is required to provide our services. Data privacy laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries apply to the collection, transfer, use, storage, and destruction of personal information. In the U.S., our financial institution clients are required to comply with privacy regulations imposed under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are required to comply with the privacy regulations and are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information received from our clients as apply to the financial institutions themselves. We also perform services for healthcare companies in our customer communications business and are, therefore, subject to compliance with laws and regulations regarding healthcare information, including in the U.S., the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. In addition, federal and state privacy and information security laws, and consumer protection laws, which apply to businesses that collect or process personal information, also apply directly to our businesses. 

Privacy laws and regulations may require notification to affected individuals, federal and state regulators, and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach that results in unauthorized access to or disclosure of certain personal information. Privacy laws outside the U.S. may be more restrictive and may require different compliance requirements than U.S. laws and regulations, and may impose additional duties on us in the performance of our services. 

There has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. The law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature of privacy laws in the U.S., the European Union and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal information of our employees and on behalf of our clients. While we believe that Broadridge is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, information security threats continue to evolve resulting in increased risk and exposure. In addition, legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose Broadridge to increased costs, liability, and possible damage to our reputation. 

Seasonality 

Processing and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports during our fourth fiscal quarter (the second quarter of the calendar year). The recurring periodic activity of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies and mutual funds. Historically, this has caused our revenues, operating income, net earnings, and cash flows from operating activities to be higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. The seasonality of our revenues makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific fiscal quarter and could affect an investor&#8217;s ability to compare our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows on a fiscal quarter-by-quarter basis. 

Segment and Geographic Area Financial Information 

You can find financial information regarding our reportable segments and our geographic areas in Note 17 , &#8220;Financial Data By Segment&#8221; to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our headquarters are located at 5 Dakota Drive, Lake Success, New York 11042, and our telephone number is (516) 472-5400. 

We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at www.broadridge-ir.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these reports, just click on the &#8220;SEC Filings&#8221; link found at the top of our Investor Relations page. You can also access our Investor Relations page through our main website at www.broadridge.com by clicking on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; link, which is located at the top of our homepage. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

