 Item 1. Business 

Overview . Camden National Corporation (hereafter referred to as &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a publicly-held bank holding company, with $3.7 billion in assets, 64 banking centers, 85 ATMs, and three lending offices at December 31, 2015, incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine and headquartered in Camden, Maine. The Company, as a diversified financial services provider, pursues the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by balancing growth opportunities against profit, while mitigating risks inherent in the financial services industry. The primary business of the Company and its subsidiaries is to attract deposits from, and to extend loans to, consumer, institutional, municipal, non-profit and commercial customers. The Company offers commercial and consumer banking products and services through its subsidiary, Camden National Bank (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), as well as brokerage and insurance services through Camden Financial Consultants (&#8220;Camden Financial&#8221;), a division of the Bank. The Bank's wholly-owned subsidiary, Healthcare Professional Funding Corporation ("HPFC"), provides specialized lending to dentists, optometrists and veterinarians across the United States ("U.S."). The Company also offers investment management and fiduciary services through its subsidiary, Acadia Trust, N.A. (&#8220;Acadia Trust&#8221;), a federally-regulated, non-depository trust company headquartered in Portland, Maine. The consolidated financial statements of the Company accompanying this Form 10-K include the accounts of the Company, the Bank and its subsidiaries and division, and Acadia Trust. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

The Company is committed to the philosophy of serving the financial needs of customers in local communities, as described in its core purpose: Through each interaction, we will enrich the lives of people, help businesses succeed and vitalize communities. 

The Company has achieved a five-year compounded annual asset growth rate of 10%, resulting in $3.7 billion in total assets at December 31, 2015. The following is a chronological time-line of significant events and factors contributing to the Company's asset growth over the past five years: 

&#8226; 

2012 &#8212; The acquisition of 14 branches, including $287.6 million in deposits and $5.7 million in small business loans, from Bank of America, National Association, in October 2012. 

&#8226; 

2013 &#8212; The divestiture of our five Franklin County branches, including $46.0 million in loans and $85.9 million in deposits and borrowings, in October 2013. 

&#8226; 

2014 &#8212; The Company had $192.2 million of organic loan growth, primarily within the commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios. Also, in 2014, we expanded our franchise outside of Maine by opening a commercial loan office in Manchester, New Hampshire, providing us with a wider reach across northern New England. 

&#8226; 

2015 &#8212; The Company achieved organic asset growth of $80.0 million fueled by organic loan growth of $102.4 million. The Company completed the acquisition of SBM Financial, Inc. ("SBM") and The Bank of Maine, the wholly-owned subsidiary of SBM, on October 16, 2015. SBM was approximately one-third the size of the Company pre-acquisition with total assets of $840.1 million, total loans of $615.2 million and total deposits of $687.0 million. With the SBM acquisition, the Company expanded its reach in Southern and Central Maine and into Massachusetts, through an increase in its branch network in Maine, including lending offices in Falmouth, Maine, and Boston and Braintree, Massachusetts. 

The financial services industry continues to experience consolidations through mergers that could create opportunities for the Company to promote its value proposition to customers. The Company evaluates the possibility of expansion into new markets through both de novo expansion and acquisitions. In addition, the Company is focused on maximizing the potential for growth in existing markets, especially in markets where the Company has less of a presence. Further details on the Company's financial information can be found within the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. 

Camden National Bank . The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States headquartered in Camden, Maine. Originally founded in 1875, the Bank became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company as a result of a corporate reorganization in 1984. The Bank offers its products and services across Maine, and focuses primarily on attracting deposits from the general public through its branches, and then leveraging this relationship to originate residential mortgage loans, commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans and a variety of consumer loans across New England. The Company has operations within 13 of Maine's 16 counties. Customers may also access the Bank&#8217;s products and services using other channels, including the Bank&#8217;s website address. The Bank's website address is www.CamdenNational.com. 

Camden Financial Consultants, located at Camden National Bank . Camden Financial is a full-service brokerage and insurance division of the Bank in the business of helping clients meet all of their financial needs by using a total wealth management approach. Its financial offerings include college, retirement, and estate planning, mutual funds, strategic asset management accounts, and variable and fixed annuities. 

Healthcare Professional Funding Corporation. &#32;HPFC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank and provides specialized lending to dentists, optometrists and veterinarians across the U.S. The Company acquired HPFC in connection with the SBM acquisition and The Bank of Maine. Shortly after the acquisition, the Company announced that it will be closing operations of HPFC on February 19, 2016. Refer to Note 25, Subsequent Events, within Item 8 of this report for further details. HPFC website address is www.healthprofunding.com . 

Acadia Trust, N.A. Acadia Trust is a limited purpose national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States headquartered in Portland, Maine. Acadia Trust provides a broad range of trust, trust-related, investment and wealth management services to both individual and institutional clients. The financial services provided by Acadia Trust complement the services provided by the Bank by offering high net worth individuals, businesses and non-profit institutional customers investment management services, as well as serving as trustee. Acadia Trust&#8217;s website address is www.acadiatrust.com. 

The Company&#8217;s Investor Relations information can be obtained through the Bank&#8217;s internet address, www.CamdenNational.com . The Company makes available on or through its Investor Relations page, without charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company&#8217;s reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . In addition, the Company makes available, free of charge, its press releases and Code of Ethics through the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations page. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this document and should not be considered part of this report. 

Competition . Through the Bank and its subsidiaries and division of, the Company competes throughout Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts. Our primary markets within Maine run along Maine's coast and mid-interior through Bangor, Maine. We operate and manage the Bank's business within Maine's various regions, including Mid Coast, Southern, Central, Bangor region and Downeast. Many of these markets that we operate are characterized as rural areas. Major competitors in the Company&#8217;s primary market area include local branches of large regional bank affiliates and brokerage houses, as well as local independent banks, financial advisors, thrift institutions and credit unions. Other competitors for deposits and loans within the Bank&#8217;s primary market area include insurance companies, money market funds, consumer finance companies and financing affiliates of consumer durable goods manufacturers. 

The Company and the Bank generally have effectively competed with other financial institutions by emphasizing customer service, which is branded as the Camden National Experience, highlighted by local decision-making, establishing long-term customer relationships, building customer loyalty and providing products and services designed to meet the needs of customers. The Company, through its non-depository bank subsidiary, Acadia Trust, competes for trust, trust-related, investment management, individual retirement and foundation and endowment management services with local banks and non-banks, which may now, or in the future, offer a similar range of services, as well as with a number of brokerage firms and investment advisors with offices in the Company&#8217;s market area. In addition, most of these services are widely available to the Company&#8217;s customers by telephone and over the internet through firms located outside the Company&#8217;s market area. 

Employees . The Company employed 652 people on a full- or part-time basis as of December 31, 2015 through its subsidiaries, including the Bank (and its subsidiary, HPFC), Camden Financial, and Acadia Trust. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of the safety and soundness of depository institutions, the federal deposit insurance system, and depositors, rather than the protection of shareholders of a bank holding company such as the Company. 

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;FRB&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;). The Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;). Acadia Trust is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. As a limited purpose national bank, Acadia Trust does not take deposits or make loans. 

The following is a summary of certain aspects of various statutes and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. This summary is not a comprehensive analysis of all applicable law, however, and you should refer to the applicable statutes and regulations for more information. 

Regulation of the Company 

The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, which has the authority, among other things, to order bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsafe or unsound banking practices; to assess civil money penalties; and to order termination of non-banking activities or termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. 

Source of Strength. &#32;Under the BHCA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), the Company is required to serve as a source of financial strength for the Bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide support to the Bank. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Acquisitions and Activities. &#32;The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company, without prior approval of the FRB, from acquiring all or substantially all the assets of a bank, acquiring control of a bank, merging or consolidating with another bank holding company, or acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, the acquiring bank holding company would control more than 5% of the voting shares of such other bank or bank holding company. The BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks. However, a bank holding company may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities that the FRB determines to be closely related to banking or managing and controlling banks. 

Limitations on Acquisitions of Company Common Stock. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company unless the FRB has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the FRB, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting securities of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act would constitute the acquisition of control of a bank holding company. In addition, the BHCA prohibits any company from acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company without first having obtained the approval of the FRB. Among other circumstances, under the BHCA, a company has control of a bank or bank holding company if the company owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25% or more of a class of voting securities of the bank or bank holding company, controls in any manner the election of a majority of directors or trustees of the bank or bank holding company, or the FRB has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the company has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or bank holding company. 

Regulation of the Bank 

The Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC. Additionally, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;) has secondary supervisory authority as the insurer of the Bank&#8217;s deposits. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB may directly examine the subsidiaries of the Company, including the Bank. The enforcement powers available to the federal banking regulators include, among other things, the ability to issue cease and desist or removal orders to terminate insurance of deposits; to assess civil money penalties; to issue directives to increase capital; to place the Bank into receivership; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. 

Deposit Insurance. &#32;The deposit obligations of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC deposit insurance limit to $250,000 per depositor for deposits maintained in the same right and capacity at a particular insured depository institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;), as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to take steps as may be necessary to cause the ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits - the designated reserve ratio - to reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and it mandates that the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC for any year may not be less than 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#8217;s capital level and supervisory rating. Assessment rates may also vary for certain institutions based on long-term debt issuer ratings, secured or brokered deposits. Deposit premiums are based on assets. To determine its deposit insurance premium, the Bank computes the base amount of its average consolidated assets less its average tangible equity (defined as the amount of 

Tier I capital) and the applicable assessment rate. The FDIC has the power to adjust deposit insurance assessment rates at any time. In addition, under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. The Bank&#8217;s FDIC insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $1.6 million. 

Acquisitions and Branching. &#32;The Bank must seek prior regulatory approval from the OCC to acquire another bank or establish a new branch office. Well capitalized and well managed banks may acquire other banks in any state, subject to certain deposit concentration limits and other conditions, pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes a state-chartered bank, such as the Bank, to establish new branches on an interstate basis to the same extent a bank chartered by the host state may establish branches. 

Activities and Investments of National Banking Associations. &#32;National banking associations must comply with the National Bank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the OCC, which limit the activities of national banking associations to those that are deemed to be part of, or incidental to, the &#8220;business of banking.&#8221; Activities that are part of, or incidental to, the business of banking include taking deposits, borrowing and lending money and discounting or negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt. Subsidiaries of national banking associations generally may only engage in activities permissible for the parent national bank. The Dodd-Frank Act bars the Bank from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring and investing in hedge funds and private equity funds, except as permitted under certain limited circumstances. 

Lending Restrictions. &#32;Federal law limits a bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% shareholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons. Among other things, extensions of credit to insiders are required to be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons. Also, the terms of such extensions of credit may not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features and may not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the bank&#8217;s capital. The Dodd-Frank Act explicitly provides that an extension of credit to an insider includes credit exposure arising from a derivatives transaction, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities lending transaction or securities borrowing transaction. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that asset sale transactions with insiders must be on market terms, and if the transaction represents more than 10% of the capital and surplus of the Bank, be approved by a majority of the disinterested directors of the Bank. 

Brokered Deposits. &#32;Section 29 of the FDIA and FDIC regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institution&#8217;s capital category is &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or, with the FDIC&#8217;s approval, &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; Depository institutions, other than those in the lowest risk category, that have brokered deposits in excess of 10% of total deposits will be subject to increased FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The Community Reinvestment Act (the &#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires the FDIC to evaluate the Bank&#8217;s performance in helping to meet the credit needs of the entire communities it serves, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with its safe and sound banking operations, and to take this record into consideration when evaluating certain applications. The FDIC&#8217;s CRA regulations are generally based upon objective criteria of the performance of institutions under three key assessment tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs, and other offices. Failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the Bank or the Company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the &#8220;GLBA&#8221;) and acquisitions of other financial institutions. The Bank currently has an &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; CRA rating. 

Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness 

Regulatory Capital Requirements. The FRB and the OCC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to United States banking organizations. These guidelines are intended to reflect the relationship between the banking organization&#8217;s capital and the degree of risk associated with its operations based on transactions recorded on-balance sheet as well as off-balance sheet items. The FRB and the OCC may from time to time require that a banking 

organization maintain capital above the minimum levels discussed below, due to the banking organization&#8217;s financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. 

The capital adequacy rules define qualifying capital instruments and specify minimum amounts of capital as a percentage of assets that banking organizations are required to maintain. Common equity Tier I capital generally includes common stock and related surplus, retained earnings and, in certain cases and subject to certain limitations, minority interest in consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other non-qualifying intangible assets and certain other deductions. Tier I capital for banks and bank holding companies generally consists of the sum of common equity Tier I capital, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and related surplus and, in certain cases and subject to limitations, minority interest in consolidated subsidiaries that does not qualify as common equity Tier I capital, less certain deductions. Tier II capital generally consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities, cumulative perpetual preferred stock, term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock, and, subject to limitations, allowances for loan losses. The sum of Tier I and Tier II capital less certain required deductions represents qualifying total risk-based capital. Prior to the effectiveness of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies were permitted to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock in Tier I capital, subject to limitations. However, the FRB&#8217;s capital rule applicable to bank holding companies permanently grandfathers non-qualifying capital instruments, including trust preferred securities, issued before May 19, 2010 by depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier I capital. In addition, under rules that became effective January 1, 2015, accumulated other comprehensive income (positive or negative) must be reflected in Tier I capital; however, the Company was permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. The Company has made this election. 

Under the capital rules, risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing common equity Tier I, Tier I and total risk-based capital, respectively, by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet credit equivalents are assigned a risk weight based primarily on relative credit risk. 

Under the FRB's capital rules applicable to the Company and the OCC's capital rules applicable to the Bank, the Company and the Bank are each required to maintain a minimum common equity Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 6%, a minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 8% and a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Additionally, subject to a transition schedule, these rules require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier I capital in an amount above the minimum risk-based capital requirements for &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; institutions equal to 2.5% of total risk weighted assets, or face restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, pay discretionary bonuses, and to engage in share repurchases. 

Under the FRB's rules, a bank holding company, such as the Company, is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if the bank holding company (i) has a total risk based capital ratio of at least 10%, (ii) has a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and (iii) is not subject to any written agreement order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. Under the OCC&#8217;s rules, an OCC supervised institution is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater; (ii) a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater; (iii) a common Tier I equity ratio of at least 6.5% or greater, (iv) a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or greater; and (iv) is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

Information concerning the Company and the Bank with respect to capital requirements is incorporated by reference 

from Item 7. "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Capital 

Resources,&#8221; and Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", in the section entitled &#8220;Note 22, Regulatory Capital 

Requirements.&#8221; 

The Company and the Bank are considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under all regulatory definitions. 

Safety and Soundness Standards. &#32;The FDIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards, by regulations or guidelines, relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, risk management, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation, fees and benefits, and such other operational and managerial standards as the agencies deem appropriate. Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or 

disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In addition, the federal banking agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; provisions of the FDIA. See &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The revenue of the Company (on a parent-only basis) is derived primarily from interest and dividends paid to it by the Bank. The right of the Company, and consequently the right of shareholders of the Company, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Bank through the payment of such dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of the Company in a creditor capacity may be recognized. 

Restrictions on Bank Holding Company Dividends. &#32;The FRB has the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless the bank holding company&#8217;s net income over the preceding year is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, the Company&#8217;s ability to pay dividends is restricted if it does not maintain the capital conservation buffer. See &#8220;&#8212;Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness&#8212;Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. 

Under Maine law, a corporation&#8217;s board of directors may declare, and the corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares, in cash or other property, generally only out of the corporation&#8217;s unreserved and unrestricted earned surplus, or out of the unreserved and unrestricted net earnings of the current fiscal year and the next preceding fiscal year taken as a single period, except under certain circumstances, including when the corporation is insolvent, or when the payment of the dividend would render the corporation insolvent or when the declaration would be contrary to the corporation&#8217;s charter. 

Restrictions on Bank Dividends . National banks generally may not declare a dividend in excess of the bank&#8217;s undivided profits and, absent OCC approval, if the total amount of dividends declared by the national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of the national bank&#8217;s retained net income of that year to date combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. National banks also are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividend if, after making the dividend, the national bank would be considered &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; (as defined by reference to other OCC regulations). The OCC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a national bank, such as the Bank, from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Certain Transactions by Bank Holding Companies with their Affiliates 

There are various statutory restrictions on the extent to which bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries may borrow, obtain credit from or otherwise engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with their insured depository institution subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the definition of affiliate to include an investment fund for which the depository institution or one of its affiliates is an investment adviser. An insured depository institution (and its subsidiaries) may not lend money to, or engage in covered transactions with, its non-depository institution affiliates if the aggregate amount of covered transactions outstanding involving the bank, plus the proposed transaction exceeds the following limits: (i) in the case of any one such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution; and (ii) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution. For this purpose, &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, a purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets from an affiliate unless exempted by the FRB, the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for a loan or extension of credit to any person or company, the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate, securities borrowing or lending transactions with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate, or a derivatives transaction with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate. Covered transactions are also subject to certain collateral security requirements. Covered transactions as well as other types of transactions between a bank and a bank holding company must be on market terms and not otherwise unduly favorable to the holding company or an affiliate of the holding company. Moreover, the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 provide that, to further competition, a bank holding 

company and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property of any kind, or furnishing of any service. 

Consumer Protection Regulation 

The Company and the Bank are subject to federal and state laws designed to protect consumers and prohibit unfair or deceptive business practices, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Ownership Protection Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the &#8220;FACT Act&#8221;), the GLBA, the Truth in Lending Act, the CRA, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and various state law counterparts. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must interact with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has the responsibility for making rules and regulations under the federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products and services. The CFPB also has a broad mandate to prohibit unfair or deceptive acts and practices and is specifically empowered to require certain disclosures to consumers and draft model disclosure forms. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws and regulations can subject financial institutions to enforcement actions, fines and other penalties. The OCC examines the Bank for compliance with CFPB rules and enforces CFPB rules with respect to the Bank. 

Mortgage Reform. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act prescribes certain standards that mortgage lenders must consider before making a residential mortgage loan, including verifying a borrower&#8217;s ability to repay such mortgage loan, and allows borrowers to assert violations of certain provisions of the Truth in Lending Act as a defense to foreclosure proceedings. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, prepayment penalties are prohibited for certain mortgage transactions and creditors are prohibited from financing insurance policies in connection with a residential mortgage loan or home equity line of credit. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits mortgage originators from receiving compensation based on the terms of residential mortgage loans and generally limits the ability of a mortgage originator to be compensated by others if compensation is received from a consumer. The Dodd-Frank Act requires mortgage lenders to make additional disclosures prior to the extension of credit, in each billing statement and for negative amortization loans and hybrid adjustable rate mortgages. 

Privacy and Customer Information Security. &#32;The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. In general, the Bank must provide its customers with an initial and annual disclosure that explains its policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required or permitted by law, the Bank is prohibited from disclosing such information except as provided in such policies and procedures. However, an annual disclosure is not required to be provided by a financial institution if the financial institution only discloses information under exceptions from GLBA that do not require an opt out to be provided and if there has been no change in its privacy policies and practices since its most recent disclosure provided to consumers. The GLBA also requires that the Bank develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information (as defined under GLBA), to protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bank is also required to send a notice to customers whose sensitive information has been compromised if unauthorized use of this information is reasonably possible. Most states, including the states where the Bank operates, have enacted legislation concerning breaches of data security and Congress is considering federal legislation that would require consumer notice of data security breaches. Pursuant to the FACT Act, the Bank must develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of certain accounts or certain existing accounts. Additionally, the FACT Act amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to generally prohibit a person from using information received from an affiliate to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer, unless the consumer is given notice and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to opt out of the making of such solicitations. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

The Bank Secrecy Act. &#32;Under the Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), a financial institution, is required to have systems in place to detect certain transactions, based on the size and nature of the transaction. Financial institutions are generally required to report to the United States Treasury any cash transactions involving more than $10,000. In addition, financial institutions are required to file suspicious activity reports for any transaction or series of transactions that involve more than $5,000 and which the financial institution knows, suspects or has reason to suspect involves illegal funds, is designed to evade the requirements of the BSA or has no lawful purpose. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA PATRIOT Act&#8221;), which amended the BSA, together with the implementing regulations of various federal regulatory agencies, has caused financial institutions, such as the Bank, to adopt and implement 

additional policies or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other things, anti-money laundering compliance, suspicious activity, currency transaction reporting, customer identity verification and customer risk analysis. In evaluating an application under Section 3 of the BHCA to acquire a bank or an application under the Bank Merger Act to merge banks or affect a purchase of assets and assumption of deposits and other liabilities, the applicable federal banking regulator must consider the anti-money laundering compliance record of both the applicant and the target. In addition, under the USA PATRIOT Act financial institutions are required to take steps to monitor their correspondent banking and private banking relationships as well as, if applicable, their relationships with &#8220;shell banks.&#8221; 

OFAC. &#32;The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These sanctions, which are administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;), take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial or other transactions relating to a sanctioned country or with certain designated persons and entities; (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons); and (iii) restrictions on transactions with or involving certain persons or entities. Blocked assets (for example, property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the Company. 

Regulation of Other Activities 

Volcker Rule Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Sponsorship of Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act bars banking organizations, such as the Company and the Bank, from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring and investing in hedge funds and private equity funds, except as permitted under certain circumstances, in a provision commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Under the Dodd-Frank Act, proprietary trading generally means trading by a banking entity or its affiliate for its trading account. Hedge funds and private equity funds are described by the Dodd-Frank Act as funds that would be registered under the 1940 Act but for certain enumerated exemptions. The Volcker Rule restrictions apply to the Company, the Bank and all of their subsidiaries and affiliates. 

Legal Contingencies 

In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to pending and threatened legal actions. Although the Company is not able to predict the outcome of such actions, after reviewing pending and threatened actions with counsel, management believes that based on the information currently available the outcome of such actions, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial position as a whole. 

Reserves are established for legal claims only when losses associated with the claims are judged to be probable, and the loss can be reasonably estimated. In many lawsuits and arbitrations, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the case is close to resolution, in which case a reserve will not be recognized until that time. 

