 Item 1. Business . 

Overview 

We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing new chemical entities designed to alleviate pain and pruritus by selectively targeting kappa opioid receptors. We are developing a novel and proprietary class of product candidates that target the body&#146;s peripheral nervous system. 

We commenced operations in 2004, and our primary activities to date have been organizing and staffing our company, developing our product candidates and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our equity and debt securities and payments from license agreements. We have no products currently available for sale, and substantially all of our revenue to date has been revenue from license agreements, although we have received nominal amounts of revenue under research grants. 

&#160;

According to IMS Health, an independent market research firm, the total U.S. market for pain management pharmaceuticals was $37.2 billion in 2015. The prescription pain management market in the United States is dominated by opioid analgesics, which, according to IMS Health data, represented 57% of the 433 million analgesic prescriptions written in 2015 and accounted for sales of $9.1 billion in that year. Opioid analgesics decrease the perception of pain by stimulating mu, delta and/or kappa opioid receptors. All of these receptors are involved in modulating pain signals. The most widely used opioid analgesics, including hydrocodone, oxycodone, morphine, and fentanyl, act primarily through the activation of mu opioid receptors in the central nervous system, or CNS. However, because of the wide distribution of mu opioid receptors throughout the brain, morphine and other mu opioid analgesics also trigger a characteristic pattern of adverse &#147;central&#148; side effects, including nausea and vomiting, itching and respiratory depression. Mu opioids are also known to cause euphoria, which can lead to misuse, abuse and addiction issues. 

Our most advanced product candidate is based on our new chemical entity, CR845, which is designed to produce pain relief by specifically stimulating kappa, rather than mu, opioid receptors. We have designed CR845 with specific chemical characteristics to restrict its entry into the CNS and further limit CR845&#146;s mechanism of action to kappa opioid receptors in the peripheral nervous system, which consists of the nerves outside the brain and spinal cord. In addition to the side effects associated with activation of mu opioid receptors in the CNS, activation of kappa receptors in the CNS is also known to result in side effects, including acute psychiatric disorders. Since CR845 is designed to modulate pain signals without activation of mu or kappa opioid receptors in the CNS, it is not expected to produce the psychiatric side effects of centrally-active prior kappa opioids or the CNS related side effects of mu opioids. CR845 has been administered to over 700 human subjects in Phase 1 and Phase 2/3 clinical trials as an intravenous infusion, rapid intravenous injection or oral capsule or tablet and was considered to be safe and well tolerated in these clinical trials. 

Based on the clinical trials and preclinical studies we have completed to date, we believe that product candidates based on CR845, if approved, will be attractive to both patients and physicians as a treatment for moderate-to-severe pain due to the following attributes: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; novel, peripherally-acting, kappa opioid receptor mechanism of action; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; strong evidence of efficacy and anti-inflammatory activity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; potential for reducing mu opioid use and opioid-related adverse events, or AEs, such as nausea and vomiting; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; avoidance of mu opioid-related CNS side effects, such as respiratory depression and euphoria; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; absence of euphoria which lowers addiction or abuse potential; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; avoidance of interactions with other drugs because, as a peptide composed of four non-natural D-amino acids that is not metabolized in the liver, CR845 does not interact with the liver enzymes responsible for the metabolism of most commonly used classes of drugs; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; availability in intravenous, or I.V., form for acute pain treatment in the hospital setting and oral form for treatment of acute and chronic pain in either a hospital or outpatient setting. Our most advanced product candidate I.V. CR845, has demonstrated significant pain relief and a favorable safety and tolerability profile in three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trials, in patients with acute postoperative pain who were undergoing soft tissue (laparoscopic hysterectomy) and hard tissue (bunionectomy) surgery, without inducing many of the undesirable side effects typically associated with currently available pain therapeutics. 

In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we successfully completed a Human Abuse Liability, or HAL, trial of I.V. CR845. The top-line results from this HAL trial indicate that I.V. CR845 met the trial&#146;s primary endpoint by demonstrating highly statistically significant lower &#147;drug liking&#148; scores as measured by visual analog scale (VAS) Emax (p &#60;0.0001) when compared to pentazocine, an approved Schedule IV opioid receptor agonist. I.V. CR845 also demonstrated highly statistically significant lower &#147;feeling high,&#148; &#147;overall liking,&#148; and &#147;take drug again&#148; scores (p &#60;0.0001) as compared to pentazocine. Additionally, I.V. CR845 showed no &#147;drug liking&#148; dose response as both doses of I.V. CR845 were the same. Those scores represent standard subjective measures recommended by the FDA to assess a drug&#146;s abuse liability. We believe that the totality of the results from the HAL trial are supportive of the potential for CR845 to be the first non-scheduled or low (Schedule V) scheduled peripheral opioid for acute pain. 

&#160;

In April 2015, we completed an End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, to discuss the design of pivotal trials for our I.V. CR845 product candidate in acute pain. In September 2015, we initiated the Phase 3 program for our I.V. formulation of CR845 in postoperative pain with the dosing of the first subjects in an adaptive pivotal trial in patients undergoing a range of abdominal surgeries (see Our Product Candidates &#150; I.V. CR845 , below, for details of the Phase 3 trial). 

In February 2016, the FDA advised us that our adaptive pivotal trial of I.V. CR845 for postoperative pain had been placed on IND clinical hold pending a safety review. The clinical hold was based on a stopping rule related to elevated serum sodium levels of greater than 150 mmol/L that was included in the clinical trial protocol. Four patients out of 90 total patients dosed to date, all of whom were in the highest I.V. CR845 dose group (5 ug/kg), exhibited transient serum sodium levels equal to or greater than 150 mmol/L (mild-to-moderate hypernatremia). All four patients were asymptomatic and sodium levels resolved to normal levels (less than 146 mmol/L) within 24 hours post-dosing with standard fluid management. No patients in the other two dose groups (2 ug/kg and 1 ug/kg) exhibited serum sodium levels greater than 150 mmol/L. A review of unblinded safety data has been undertaken by both us and the Independent Data Monitoring Committee in accordance with the clinical trial protocol. 

The most common adverse events (&#62; 5%) reported across treatment groups and placebo so far were nausea, hypernatremia, abdominal distension and procedural hypotension. All cases of abdominal distension and procedural hypotension were attributed to the surgical procedure and not to the dosing of I.V. CR845. There were no cases of respiratory depression, no adverse events greater than Grade 1, and no CR845-associated serious adverse events have been reported. We anticipate continuing the trial following FDA review of the patient safety data and removal of the clinical hold. 

Based on previous guidance from the FDA, we believe we will require 1,500 total exposures to I.V. CR845, including all Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials, prior to submitting a new drug application, or NDA. We believe our planned clinical trials and our clinical trials completed to date will result in a sufficient number of drug exposures to support an NDA. 

We are also developing an oral version of CR845, or Oral CR845, which we believe could be used to provide pain relief to patients with acute or chronic pain in an outpatient setting and also as an I.V.-to-oral transition, or step-down, therapy for hospital patients being prepared for discharge. 

In August 2015, we advanced our tablet formulation of Oral CR845 into a Phase 2a clinical trial in patients with osteoarthritis, or OA, of the knee or hip. In December 2015, we announced positive top-line results from this Phase 2a trial. The results showed a dose-related reduction in mean baseline pain score up to 34% after two weeks, with a statistically significant reduction in mean rescue medication for the top 5.0 mg dose group of approximately 80%. See the section titled &#147;Our Product Candidates &#150; Oral CR845&#148;, below, for details of this Phase 2a OA trial. We plan to initiate a double-blind, multiple dose Phase 2b clinical trial of Oral CR845 in the second half of 2016. The Phase 2b trial will include twice-daily doses of three tablet strengths of Oral CR845 or placebo over an eight-week treatment period in patients with moderate-to-severe pain associated with OA. 

CR845 has exhibited anti-pruritic, or anti-itch, potency in standard preclinical models. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we reported positive top-line dose-ranging pharmacokinetic, or PK, and safety data from a Phase 1b clinical trial, which was part A of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial of I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus, a systemic condition with high prevalence in dialysis patients, for which there are no approved therapeutics in the United States. In July 2015, we reported positive top-line efficacy results from Part B of this Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial, in which we observed that I.V. CR845 demonstrated statistically significant results on the primary endpoint of reducing worst itch intensity as well as the secondary endpoint of quality of life improvements . We also observed I.V. CR845 to have a favorable safety and tolerability profile in the trial. 

&#160;

Based on the results of this trial, during the fourth quarter of 2015 we completed a guidance meeting with the FDA, the outcome of which will guide the overall design of our Phase 3 clinical trial program for I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus. Subject to the feedback from the FDA, we intend to initiate a first Phase 2/3 adaptive pivotal trial in uremic pruritus in the first half of 2016. 

In the future, we intend to request breakthrough therapy designation and orphan drug status for I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus. If granted by the FDA, breakthrough designation could provide for expedited regulatory review of I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus, and orphan drug status could confer marketing exclusivity benefits. 

We are also developing a peripherally-acting cannabinioid receptor agonist, CR701, which has demonstrated potent activity in preclinical models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain without producing CNS-related side effects. In addition, CR701 exhibits substantial oral bioavailability in preclinical studies. We have successfully conducted pre-GLP safety studies with CR701 and are exploring the option of conducting the necessary GLP studies (safety studies conducted under the regulatory standard of Good Laboratory Practices) necessary to file an IND to initiate a Phase 1 ascending single-dose tolerance and PK study in healthy human subjects. 

CR845 and CR701 were discovered by our scientists. We own eight U.S. patents and two allowed applications with claims covering compositions of matter and methods of use for CR845. The earliest U.S. patent claiming CR845 compositions will expire no earlier than November 12, 2027. We also own four issued U.S. patents that cover the compound CR701, CR701 as a member of a class of related compounds and methods of using these compounds. These U.S. patents are due to expire no earlier than June 20, 2028. 

We anticipate developing a distribution capability and commercial organization in the United States to market and sell our I.V. product candidates in the acute care setting, while out-licensing commercialization rights in certain geographical territories outside of the United States. For Oral CR845, we plan to explore late-stage development and commercialization partnerships both in the United States and worldwide. We have entered into collaboration agreements for both I.V. and Oral CR845 with Maruishi Pharmaceuticals, or Maruishi, in Japan and Chong Kun Dang Pharmaceutical Corp., or CKD, in South Korea, which provide them the exclusive right to develop and market CR845 for certain indications within those territories. As of December 31, 2015, we had received approximately $28 million in payments in connection with these collaborations and were eligible to receive further payments and royalties upon the achievement of future development and commercialization milestones. 

&#160;

Our current product candidate pipeline is summarized in the table below: 

&#160;

Product Candidate 

&#160; Primary 

Indication(s) 

&#160; Status &#160; Commercialization Rights 

I.V. CR845 &#160; Acute Pain &#160; Phase 3 Clinical Trial Program Initiated (currently on IND clinical hold) &#160; Cara (worldwide, other than Japan and South Korea)

Maruishi (Japan)

CKD (South Korea)

&#160;

I.V. CR845 &#160; Uremic Pruritus &#160; FDA Guidance Meeting Complete &#160; Cara (worldwide, other than Japan and South Korea)

Maruishi (Japan)

CKD (South Korea)

&#160;

Oral CR845 &#160; Acute &#38; Chronic Pain &#160; Phase 2a OA Clinical Trial Top-Line Data Reported &#160; Cara (worldwide, other than Japan and South Korea)

Maruishi (Japan&#150;for acute pain indication only)

CKD (South Korea)

&#160;

CR701 &#160; Neuropathic &#38; Inflammatory Pain &#160; Preclinical &#160; Cara (worldwide) The Market Opportunity &#150; Pain Management 

Pain is generally categorized by its duration as either acute or chronic, by its severity, as mild, moderate or severe, and its type and/or causality, such as postoperative or neuropathic. Acute pain is typically caused by an injury resulting in nerve, tissue or bone damage and is expected to subside in severity when the injury heals. Postoperative pain is a subset of the acute pain market. Chronic pain, on the other hand, is prolonged, and can be the long-term result of an acute injury or an ongoing disease condition, such as neuropathic pain associated with diabetes. According to a recent Institute of Medicine report, chronic pain affects approximately 100 million U.S. adults, while millions of others experience acute pain caused by events such as surgery, injury, childbirth and illness. According to IMS Health, the total U.S. market for pain management pharmaceuticals was $37.2 billion in 2015. In 2012, according to Visiongain, an independent industry research company, total sales for pain therapies worldwide, exceeded $63 billion. 

The severity of pain is the key factor in determining the appropriate therapy. Mild or mild-to-moderate pain is generally treated with non-opioid products, such as oral formulations of NSAIDs (e.g., ibuprofen, naproxen), aspirin, and acetaminophen. Moderate-to-severe pain, on the other hand, is typically treated with products containing traditional mu opioids. Mu opioid analgesics are effective to some degree for many patients, but have a poor side effect and abuse liability profile, which limits or precludes their use in treating less severe pain. For many people with moderate-to-severe pain, opioid analgesics are the only effective method of treating pain. As a result, these opioid analgesics are among the largest prescription drug classes in the United States. According to IMS Health, opioid analgesics represented approximately 57% of the nearly 433 million analgesic prescriptions written in 2015, accounting for $9.1 billion in sales. 

Postoperative Pain Market 

Postoperative pain represents a substantial part of the overall acute pain market. According to the International Association for the Study of Pain, more than 46 million inpatient and 53 million outpatient surgeries are performed annually in the United States. Moderate-to-severe pain in a hospital or other medical setting is most often treated with injectable analgesics. The U.S. I.V./injectable analgesic therapy market primarily consists of mu opioid 

&#160;

agonists, such as morphine, hydromorphone and fentanyl, and certain non-opioid analgesics, such as Toradol (and related generic I.V. ketorolac products), Caldolor (I.V. ibuprofen), and Ofirmev (I.V. acetaminophen). In 2014, there were 234.3 million doses of injectable opioid analgesics used in United States according to the IMS Health NSP Audit. 

According to recently updated Practice Guidelines developed by the American Society of Anesthesiologists, the standard of care for treating acute postoperative pain is multimodal analgesia, which includes the administration of two or more drugs that act by different mechanisms for providing analgesia in a manner that will minimize the occurrence of adverse events. When patients are ready for discharge, a transition is typically made to a prescription oral pain medication, allowing patients to self-administer relatively strong analgesics after being discharged home. This transition from an I.V. pain medication to an oral pain medication is commonly referred to as I.V.-to-oral &#147;step-down&#148; therapy. 

Strong mu opioid analgesics, such as morphine, fentanyl, and hydromorphone, are mainstays of pain treatment in the immediate postoperative period, and are used as part of a multimodal analgesic approach. However, the use of strong mu opioid analgesics is associated with an array of unwanted and serious side effects, including postoperative opioid-induced respiratory depression, or POIRD, postoperative nausea and vomiting, or PONV, and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, or OBD, which contributes to the severity of postoperative ileus, or POI. According to Anesthesiology News , a trade journal, the incidence of POIRD may be as high as 29%, can occur unexpectedly in even the healthiest of patients, and exerts a disproportionately high toll on length of stay and hospital costs due to the significant expenses associated with the treatment of POIRD. According to an article published in Best Practice &#38; Research Clinical Anaesthesiology, a trade journal, PONV occurs in approximately one-third of surgical patients overall, and is one of the most important factors in determining length of stay after surgery, resulting in estimated annual costs in the U.S. in the range of $1 billion. These mu opioid-related adverse events not only significantly increase the cost of care, but also reduce a patient&#146;s quality of care and lead to sub-optimal recovery. 

Nonopioid analgesics formulated for injection or infusion, including I.V. acetaminophen and NSAIDs, such as I.V. ibuprofen, are available as alternatives to mu opioids to relieve acute pain, but their use is limited in a postoperative care setting as a result of their limited efficacy. I.V. acetaminophen and NSAIDs also have side effects that limit their use at higher, more efficacious doses. Acetaminophen is associated with risk of liver toxicity, which can be fatal, and NSAIDs are associated with risks of bleeding, serious gastrointestinal side effects including ulcers, kidney damage, and serious cardiovascular thrombotic events such as stroke and heart attack, which can be fatal. 

Chronic Pain Market 

The most common causes of moderate-to-severe chronic pain are musculoskeletal problems and inflammatory conditions. Injuries from accidents resulting in fractures, dislocations or soft tissue injury, as well as lower back pain, are the most frequent causes of musculoskeletal pain. Although these injuries are mostly non-fatal, the cost in terms of long-term disability, medical expense and lost productivity is large. Moderate-to-severe chronic pain is typically treated with prescription products including immediate release and long-acting opioids, such as the branded products OxyContin (oxycodone), Nucynta ER (tapentadol) and Opana ER (oxymorphone), and combination products that include an opioid combined with an NSAID or acetaminophen, such as the branded products Vicodin (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) and Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen). Prescription products for chronic pain are usually in oral tablet or capsule form because the vast majority of these patients are taking these medications outside of the hospital setting. 

On April 7, 2005, the FDA announced a decision to require boxed warnings of potential cardiovascular risk for all NSAIDs. The 2005 FDA warning related to cardiovascular adverse events associated with NSAIDs and the increased awareness of the risk of liver toxicity associated with high doses of acetaminophen have led to increased use of mu opioid analgesics for the treatment of chronic pain. However, the use of mu opioid analgesics carries significant additional risks. Chronic opioid use causes patients to develop tolerance for the opioid, which results in the patient needing increasing opioid doses to achieve the same level of pain relief. For the most commonly prescribed analgesic combination products, the need for increasing doses to achieve the same level of pain relief means exposure to increasing amounts of NSAIDs or acetaminophen, which carry the risks attendant to these therapeutics. Moreover, due to their CNS activity, mu opioids produce feelings of euphoria, which can give rise to abuse and addiction. Underlining the severity of this issue, in September 2013, the FDA announced class-wide safety labeling changes and new post-market study requirements for all extended-release and long-acting mu opioid 

&#160;

analgesics intended to treat pain. In support of this action, the FDA Commissioner stated that &#147;[t]he FDA is invoking its authority to require safety labeling changes and post-market studies to combat the crisis of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose, and death from these potent drugs that have harmed too many patients and devastated too many families and communities.&#148; In addition, as a result of their potential for misuse, abuse and addiction, currently approved mu opioids are strictly regulated by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, under the Controlled Substances Act, which imposes strict registration, record keeping and reporting requirements, security control and restrictions on prescriptions, all of which significantly increase the costs and the liability attendant to prescription opioid analgesics. 

The Unmet Need in Pain Management 

Despite the size of the pain management market, there has been little innovation in the development of new analgesics, with nearly all recent new drug approvals limited to reformulations and improved methods of delivery of existing therapeutics. Mu opioids continue to be the most prescribed drugs for pain management, despite their side effects and the potential for misuse, abuse and addiction. These concerns often cause healthcare providers to administer or prescribe less than optimal doses of mu opioids, or patients to take lower than prescribed doses, resulting in inadequate pain relief. Consequently, we believe that the pain market represents a therapeutic area with substantial unmet needs for patients in pain, for physicians who must balance pain control with risks of causing severe adverse events, and for healthcare organizations that bear the costs of managing the consequences of undertreated pain and drug-related adverse events. We believe that CR845, with its novel mechanism of action, will be attractive to patients and physicians, as well as hospitals and payers, as a treatment for moderate-to-severe pain because of its ability to provide pain relief without opioid-related adverse events or abuse and addiction issues associated with currently approved mu opioid analgesics. 

The Market Opportunity &#150; Pruritus 

Pruritus, or itch, is defined as an unpleasant sensation that provokes the desire to scratch. Certain systemic diseases have been known to cause pruritus that ranges in intensity from a mild annoyance to an intractable, disabling condition. The sensation of pruritus is transmitted through slow-conducting unmyelinated C-polymodal and possibly type A delta nociceptive neurons with free nerve endings located near the dermoepidermal junction or in the epidermis. These neurons appear to be located more superficially and are more sensitive to pruritogenic substances than pain receptors. Activators of these nerves include histamine, neuropeptide substance P, serotonin, bradykinin, proteases (e.g., mast cell tryptase), and endothelin (which stimulates the release of nitric oxide). Impulses are transmitted from the dorsal root ganglion to the spinothalamic tract. Additionally, opioids are known to modulate the sensation of pruritus, both peripherally and centrally. Stimulation of mu opioid receptors accentuates pruritus, while stimulation of kappa receptors suppress pruritus. 

Pruritus may be classified into the following categories on the basis of the underlying causative disease: renal or uremic pruritus, cholestatic pruritus, hematologic pruritus, endocrine pruritus, pruritus related to malignancy, dermatological pruritus and idiopathic generalized pruritus. According to a study Cara conducted with IMS Health utilizing medical claims data from 2013, nearly 45 million patients have been diagnosed with diseases known to trigger pruritus in the United States alone. Of those patients, nearly half (47%) or 21 million received a prescription for an anti-pruritic agent such as corticosteroids, antihistamines, select antidepressants, counterirritants, bile acid sequestrants, rifampin, narcotic antagonists and partial agonists, topical immunomodulators (Elidel, Protopic) or gabapentin. 

Uremic Pruritus 

Renal or uremic pruritus can occur in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) and is most often seen in patients receiving hemodialysis (HD). According to Fresenius Medical Care, a world leading provider of products and medical care for dialysis patients, there were over 400,000 patients in the United States and 2.2 million globally undergoing HD in 2013. It is estimated that 40-50% of these patients suffer from renal or uremic pruritus according to a study of dialysis patients (&#147;Pruritus in haemodialysis patients: international results from the Dialysis Observation and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS)&#148;, Pisoni et al. 2006). 

Currently, there are no approved products in the United States to treat renal or uremic pruritus. Patients are generally managed with a multitude of products including corticosteroids, gabapentin, antihistamines, 

&#160;

antidepressants and others with varying degrees of success. There is one product, nalfurafine, approved to treat uremic pruritus in Japan. Nalfurafine is a kappa opioid receptor agonist but it also has partial mu-opioid receptor activity. Mu agonists, like morphine, are known to cause itch. Kappa agonists that cross the blood brain barrier like nalfurafine are also known to cause CNS-related adverse events resulting in high rates of discontinuation. The limited efficacy in light of concerns about adverse events caused European Medicines Agency to refuse to approve nalfurafine for the treatment of uremic pruritus in 2013. 

Other Causes of Pruritus 

There are many other systemic diseases that can trigger pruritus in patients. They include cholestatic liver disease endocrinologic disease (e.g. hyperthyroidism), malignancy (e.g. Hodgkin lymphoma), hematologic disease (e.g. polycythemia vera), atopic dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, hives/urticarial, and lice/scabies. Data from a Cara-sponsored IMS Health study, utilizing medical claims data from 2013, indicate that over 20 million patients suffer from some level of pruritus in the United States. Many of these patients are sub-optimally treated for their pruritus with products not approved to treat their condition. 

Our Product Candidates 

I.V. CR845 &#150; Acute Pain 

Our most advanced product candidate, I.V. CR845, is an injectable version of our first-in-class, peripheral kappa opioid receptor agonist, which is intended for the treatment of acute pain in an acute care setting. I.V. CR845 is designed to provide pain relief without stimulating mu opioid receptors and therefore without mu opioid-related side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, respiratory depression and euphoria. 

I.V. CR845 has been well tolerated and demonstrated consistent efficacy in three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trials. Two of these trials were in patients undergoing a laparoscopic hysterectomy, a soft tissue surgical procedure, and a third trial was in patients undergoing a bunionectomy, a hard tissue surgical procedure. I.V. CR845 administration resulted in statistically significant reductions in pain intensity, as measured by the sum of pain intensity difference, or SPID, the FDA-recommended endpoint. In addition, in both surgical models, I.V. CR845 exhibited an ability to decrease the opioid-related adverse events, or AEs, of nausea and vomiting associated with current therapies with no evidence of drug-related respiratory depression. According to research conducted at Duke University, post-operative AEs associated with currently approved opioids, such as nausea and vomiting, increase the length of time that a patient spends in the hospital and increases the cost of caring for those patients. Therefore, we believe that I.V. CR845 has the potential to significantly reduce the length of hospital stays, thereby reducing overall healthcare costs. 

The safety profile of I.V. CR845 has been documented in nine clinical trials, including six Phase 1 and three Phase 2 studies. In these trials, CR845 was administered to approximately 500 human subjects at single or repeat doses ranging from 1mcg/kg to 40 mcg/kg up to a 1 week period, in the form of I.V. infusion or I.V. bolus injection. I.V. CR845 was considered to be generally safe and well tolerated in all of these clinical trials. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events, or TEAEs, across evaluated populations were transient facial tingling or numbness, dizziness and fatigue. In addition, a transient increase in urine output in the absence of electrolyte loss, otherwise known as aquaresis, was also observed, which in some subjects was accompanied by asymptomatic elevations in plasma sodium that were generally considered to be clinically unimportant. No clinically significant changes in electrocardiogram characteristics have been observed in any of these studies. Importantly, there appeared to be no cases of the characteristic CNS-related adverse events, such as acute psychiatric side effects, typically observed with prior-generation CNS-active kappa agonists. 

In September 2015, we initiated our Phase 3 clinical trial program for I.V. CR845 in postoperative pain with the dosing of the first subjects in an adaptive pivotal trial in patients undergoing a range of abdominal surgeries. This trial is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group adaptive design trial with repeated doses of I.V. CR845 or placebo administered both prior to and following abdominal surgery in male and female patients. The trial will enroll up to 600 patients undergoing either hysterectomy, prostatectomy, hemi-colectomy or ventral hernia, all of which are associated with moderate-to-severe postoperative pain, at approximately 30 clinical sites within the United States. Three dose levels of I.V. CR845 (1.0, 2.0 and 5.0 ug/kg 

&#160;

I.V.) will be compared to placebo, with an interim conditional power assessment to identify optimal doses that will be used to complete the enrollment of this study. The primary efficacy measure is the Change in Pain Intensity over the 24-hour postoperative period (AUC-24) using the patient-reported Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) score collected at pre-specified time points through 24 hours. Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be evaluated as a secondary efficacy measure. The impact of I.V. CR845 treatment on inflammatory biomarkers will also be explored. 

In February 2016, the FDA advised us that our adaptive pivotal trial of I.V. CR845 for postoperative pain had been placed on IND clinical hold pending a safety review. The clinical hold was based on a stopping rule related to elevated serum sodium levels of greater than 150 mmol/L that was included in the clinical trial protocol. Four patients out of 90 total patients dosed to date, all of whom were in the highest I.V. CR845 dose group (5 ug/kg), exhibited transient serum sodium levels equal to or greater than 150 mmol/L (mild-to-moderate hypernatremia). All four patients were asymptomatic and sodium levels resolved to normal levels (less than 146 mmol/L) within 24 hours post-dosing with standard fluid management. No patients in the other two dose groups (2 ug/kg and 1 ug/kg) exhibited serum sodium levels greater than 150 mmol/L. A review of unblinded safety data has been undertaken by both us and the Independent Data Monitoring Committee in accordance with the clinical trial protocol. 

The most common adverse events (&#62; 5%) reported across treatment groups and placebo so far were nausea, hypernatremia, abdominal distension and procedural hypotension. All cases of abdominal distension and procedural hypotension were attributed to the surgical procedure and not to the dosing of I.V. CR845. There were no cases of respiratory depression, no adverse events greater than Grade 1, and no CR845-associated serious adverse events have been reported. We anticipate continuing the trial following FDA review of the patient safety data and removal of the clinical hold. 

I.V. CR845 &#150; Uremic Pruritus 

Phase 1b Safety and PK in Dialysis Patients (CLIN2005) &#150;Part A 

In 2014, we conducted a Phase 1b clinical trial, which was part A of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial, as a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the safety and PK of I.V. CR845 in 24 hemodialysis patients. I.V. CR845 was administered in the form of I.V. bolus injection at doses ranging from 0.5 mcg/kg to 2.5mcg/kg after each dialysis session up to three times per week. Pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that I.V. CR845 exhibited dose linear increases in maximum serum concentration (&#147;Cmax&#148;) and total CR845 exposure, using a common measurement method known as area under the curve, or AUC, with an approximate 10-fold increase in AUC across doses in these dialysis patients compared to normal subjects. 

I.V. CR845 was observed to be safe and well tolerated over the one-week dosing period. The most common AEs were transient facial tingling and headache. No serious AEs were reported. Although uremic pruritus was not an inclusion criterion for randomization, three subjects entered the trial with &#147;worst itching&#148; baseline scores in the moderate-to-severe range, &#62; 4.0 on a 10.0 point visual analog scale, or VAS. All three of these subjects received dosing of I.V. CR845 up to three times per week (with two subjects receiving 1 mcg/kg and one receiving 2.5mcg/kg) and ended the one-week dosing period with reported &#147;worst itching&#148; scores of 1.0 or less on a VAS. 

Phase 2 Efficacy in Dialysis Patients (CLIN2005) &#150; Part B 

Part B was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial, which measured the efficacy of I.V. CR845 compared to placebo in reducing the intensity of itch in dialysis patients with uremic pruritus who had baseline &#147;worst itching&#148; scores of 4.0 or greater on a VAS over a two-week dosing period. The primary endpoint of the study was the change from baseline in the average &#147;worst itching&#148; scores during the second week of treatment, as recorded on a VAS. Secondary endpoints focused on quality of life measures associated with pruritus burden using a series of previously validated self-assessment scales. The study enrolled a total of 65 dialysis patients at 21 sites in the United States. During the third quarter of 2015, we reported top-line efficacy results from Part B of the Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial.in which we observed that I.V. CR845 demonstrated statistically significant results on the primary endpoint of reducing worst itch intensity as well as the secondary endpoint of quality of life improvements (Figure 1) . We also observed I.V. CR845 to have a favorable safety and tolerability profile in the trial. 

Figure 1: CR845 Significantly Reduces Itch Severity and Improves Quality of Life in Hemodialysis Patients with Uremic Pruritus 

&#160;

&#160; &#160;

Oral CR845 

We are also developing an oral version of CR845. We believe Oral CR845 will address a significant unmet medical need for a safer alternative to opioids, NSAIDs or CNS anticonvulsant agents for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acute and chronic pain. In addition to the efficacy benefits that CR845 has previously demonstrated, we believe a significant benefit of Oral CR845 in the acute and chronic pain market would be its lack of CNS side effects, including euphoria, which should preclude the misuse, abuse and addiction risks associated with currently approved mu opioids. 

Phase 2a Trial of Oral CR845 (CLIN 2001-PO) 

In August 2015, we advanced a tablet formulation of Oral CR845 into a Phase 2a clinical trial in patients with OA of the knee or hip. The Phase 2a trial was a single-blind, randomized, multiple ascending dose trial designed to evaluate the safety, PK and effectiveness of oral CR845 tablets dosed over a two-week treatment period in OA patients experiencing moderate-to-severe pain, defined as &#62;4 on an 11-point Numerical Rating Scale, or NRS, at baseline. Patients discontinued current pain medications five days prior to baseline measurements. Four tablet strengths (0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg and 5.0 mg) were administered twice a day over a two-week treatment period in a total of 80 OA patients enrolled at five sites in the U.S. (Figure 1). In addition to safety and PK observations, CR845&#146;s effectiveness was assessed by: change from baseline in joint pain using the NRS, which was measured daily, change from baseline in the Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index, or WOMAC, which was measured at the end of Weeks 1 and 2 of treatment, change from baseline in rescue medication use, measured daily, and Patient Global Assessment, or PGA, which was measured on the last day of the study. Acetaminophen was the only allowable rescue medication. PK analyses indicated dose-proportional exposure of CR845 after oral administration, with the 5.0 mg dose group exhibiting an approximately five-fold increased mean AUC value compared to the 1.0 mg dose group. 

In December 2015, we announced positive top-line results from this Phase 2a trial. The results show a dose-related reduction in mean baseline pain score up to 34% after two weeks, with a statistically significant reduction in mean rescue medication for top 5.0 mg dose of approximately 80% (ANOVA: p= 0.02, for 5.0 mg vs lower dose groups) (Figure 2). The effectiveness of the 5.0 mg dose was further supported by statistically significant, dose-related increases in the proportion of patients whose OA was &#147;very much improved&#148; or &#147;much improved&#148; as indicated by patient global assessment (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, p=0.02, 2-sided). In this trial, all four tablet strengths were observed to be safe and well tolerated. The Phase 2a trial establishes therapeutic doses and a dosing regimen for a larger double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2b trial, which we plan to conduct during the second half of 2016. 

&#160;

Figure 2: Arithmetic Average Numeric Pain Rating Scores by Randomized Treatment Assignment (Cohort) and Treatment Day (Imputed Results Using the Last Observation Carried Forward [LOCF]) 

&#160;

CR701 

In addition to our CR845 family of peripheral kappa agonists, we have discovered and are developing lead molecules that selectively modulate peripheral cannabinoid receptors. Studies on the effects of cannabis have led to the discovery of an endogenous system of ligands in humans involved in a number of physiological processes, including pain and inflammation. The main naturally occurring ligands for this system, anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), activate a number of cannabinoid receptors, including CB1 and CB2 receptors. Like opioid receptors, CB1 and CB2 receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. CB1 receptors and associated ligands are mainly localized in the brain, whereas CB2 receptors are found mainly in peripheral tissues, particularly immune cells such as leukocytes and mast cells, which have been shown to be involved in pain and inflammatory responses. We are developing lead molecules that selectively modulate peripheral CB receptors without targeting CNS cannabinoid receptors. Our most advanced CB compound, CR701, is a peripherally-restricted, mixed-CB1/CB2 receptor agonist that selectively interacts with these cannabinoid receptor subtypes, with no off-target activities. The compound is orally bioavailable, active in preclinical models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain, and does not produce the side effects characteristic of centrally-active cannabinoids, such as sedation and hypothermia. Accordingly, CR701 would be expected to have substantially less abuse potential than centrally-active cannabinoids, but retain activity against therapeutically valuable peripheral targets, similar in principle to CR845. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to develop and commercialize a novel and first-in-class portfolio of peripherally-acting analgesics, focused initially on kappa opioid receptor agonists, with I.V. CR845 and Oral CR845 as the lead candidates, and subsequently on cannabinoid receptor agonists. We have designed and are developing product candidates which have clearly defined clinical development programs and target large commercial market opportunities. The key elements of our strategy are as follows: 

Continue to advance I.V. CR845 to approval for treating moderate-to-severe acute pain in acute care settings in the United States . In April 2015, we completed an End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, to discuss the design of our pivotal trials for our I.V. CR845 product candidate in acute pain. In September 2015, we initiated our Phase 3 clinical trial program for I.V. CR845 in postoperative pain with the dosing of the first subjects in an adaptive pivotal trial in patients undergoing a range of abdominal surgeries. In February 2016, the FDA placed this trial on IND clinical hold pending a safety review. The clinical hold was based on a stopping rule related to elevated serum sodium levels greater than 150 mmol/L that was included in the clinical trial protocol. A review of unblinded 

&#160;

safety data has been undertaken by both us and the Independent Data Monitoring Committee in accordance with the clinical trial protocol. We anticipate continuing the trial pending FDA review of the patient safety data. Based on previous guidance from the FDA, we believe we will require 1,500 total exposures to I.V. CR845, including all Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials, prior to submitting a new drug application, or NDA. We believe our planned clinical trials and our clinical trials completed to date will result in a sufficient number of drug exposures to support an NDA. 

Build a sales and marketing organization to commercialize I.V. CR845 for acute pain in the acute care setting in the United States. We are planning to establish a hospital-based sales force to market I.V. CR845 to physicians in the United States. We believe that a sales force of approximately 80 sales professionals can reach a large majority of our target market. We also intend to build a medical liaison organization as well as a reimbursement infrastructure to support our sales and marketing efforts. 

Establish partnerships for development and commercialization of I.V. CR845 outside of the United States. We do not intend to build a sales and marketing infrastructure outside the United States. We will seek partnerships and collaborations with companies that have development and commercialization expertise for the commercialization of I.V. CR845 in countries or regions outside of the United States. We have already signed development and commercialization agreements with Maruishi for I.V. CR845 and acute indications of Oral CR845 in the Japanese market and Chong Kun Dang for I.V. and Oral CR845 in the South Korean market. 

Advance Oral CR845 through a Phase 2b clinical trial and seek a global development and commercialization partner. The market for oral chronic pain medications is large and requires a significant sales and marketing infrastructure that other global pharmaceutical partners are better positioned to provide than we are. In December 2015, we announced positive top-line results from our Phase 2a clinical trial of Oral CR845 in patients with OA of the knee or hip. We plan to initiate a double-blind, multiple dose Phase 2b clinical trial of Oral CR845 in the second half of 2016. The Phase 2b trial will include twice-daily doses of three tablet strengths of Oral CR845 or placebo over an eight-week treatment period in patients with moderate-to-severe pain associated with OA. Following our Phase 2b trial, we intend to seek a global or regional partner for continued development and future commercialization of Oral CR845 internationally. We would intend to retain rights to co-promote Oral CR845 in the U.S. 

Establish proof-of-concept for the utility of CR845 in additional, non-analgesic, clinical indications, such as pruritus, and seek additional global development and commercialization partners. Based on potent anti-pruritic (anti-itch) properties we observed CR845 to possess in standard preclinical models of itch, we began exploring I.V. CR845 as a potential treatment of uremic pruritus, a condition that is prevalent among kidney dialysis patients and is resistant to both anti-histamine and steroid treatments and for which there are no approved therapeutics in the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we reported positive top-line dose-ranging PK and safety data from a Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial of I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus. In July 2015, we reported positive top-line efficacy results from this trial, in which we observed that I.V. CR845 demonstrated statistically significant results on the primary endpoint of reducing worst itch intensity as well as the secondary endpoint of quality of life improvements . We also observed I.V. CR845 to have a favorable safety and tolerability profile in the trial. Based on the results of this trial, during the fourth quarter of 2015 we completed a guidance meeting with the FDA, the outcome of which will guide the overall design of our Phase 3 clinical trial program for I.V. CR845 for the treatment of uremic pruritus. Subject to the feedback from the FDA, we intend to initiate a first Phase 2/3 adaptive pivotal trial in uremic pruritus in the first half of 2016. 

Commercial Partnerships 

Maruishi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 

In April 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Maruishi (&#147;Maruishi&#148;) (the &#147;Maruishi Agreement&#148;) under which we granted Maruishi an exclusive license to develop, manufacture and commercialize drug products containing CR845 in Japan in the acute pain and uremic pruritus fields. Maruishi has a right of first negotiation for any other indications for which we develop CR845 and, under certain conditions, Maruishi may substitute another pruritus indication for the uremic pruritus indication originally included in its license from us. If we abandon development of CR845 and begin development of another kappa opioid receptor agonist that is covered by the 

&#160;

claims of the patents we licensed to Maruishi, such other agonist will automatically be included in the license to Maruishi. Maruishi is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, at its expense, to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize CR845 in Japan. We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts, at our expense, to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize CR845 in the United States. We also agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply Maruishi with its requirements of drug product containing CR845 or, at Maruishi&#146;s election, CR845 drug substance. Maruishi may choose instead to manufacture its own requirements of CR845 drug product and/or drug substance. 

Under the terms of the Maruishi Agreement, we received a non-refundable and non-creditable upfront license fee of $15.0 million and are eligible to receive up to an aggregate of $10.5 million in clinical development and regulatory milestones. In August 2014, we received a milestone payment of $0.5 million upon the completion by Maruishi of a Phase 1 clinical trial in Japan related to CR845 in acute post-operative pain. In September 2015, Maruishi initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of CR845 in Japan for uremic pruritus, which triggered a $1.7 million milestone payment (net of contractual foreign currency exchange adjustments of $0.3 million) to us, which was received in October 2015. We are also eligible to receive a one-time sales milestone of one billion Yen (approximately $8.8 million based on the US Dollar/Yen exchange rate as of March 3, 2016) when a certain sales level is attained. We also receive a mid-double digit percentage of all non-royalty payments received by Maruishi from its sublicensees, if any. We are also eligible to receive tiered royalties based on net sales, if any, with minimum royalty rates in the low double digits and maximum royalty rates in the low twenties. Maruishi&#146;s obligation to pay us royalties continues, on a product-by-product basis, until the expiration of the last-to-expire licensed patent covering such product or the later expiration of any market exclusivity period. The Maruishi Agreement continues until terminated. Either we or Maruishi may terminate the Maruishi Agreement for the other party&#146;s breach of the agreement or bankruptcy. Maruishi may terminate the agreement at any time at will. We may terminate the agreement as a whole if Maruishi challenges the licensed patent rights, and we may terminate the agreement with respect to any indication if Maruishi discontinues its development activities. In addition, in connection with the license agreement, Maruishi made an $8.0 million equity investment in our company. 

Chong Kun Dang Pharmaceutical Corporation 

In April 2012, we entered into a license agreement with CKD (the &#147;CKD Agreement&#148;) under which we granted CKD an exclusive license to develop, manufacture and commercialize drug products containing CR845 in South Korea. CKD is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, at its expense, to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize CR845 in South Korea. We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts, at our expense, to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize CR845 in the United States. We also agreed to supply CKD with its requirements of CR845 drug substance. 

Under the terms of the CKD Agreement, we received a non-refundable and non-creditable $0.6 million upfront payment and are eligible to earn up to an aggregate of $3.8 million in development and regulatory milestones. In addition, in connection with the CKD Agreement, CKD made a $0.4 million equity investment in our company. We will also receive a mid-double digit percentage of all non-royalty payments received by CKD from its sublicensees, if any. We are also eligible to receive tiered royalties ranging from the high single digits to the high teens based on net sales, if any. CKD&#146;s obligation to pay us royalties continues, on a product-by-product basis, until the expiration of the last-to-expire licensed patent covering such product or the later expiration of any market exclusivity period. During 2012, we received an additional $0.6 million, net of foreign taxes, from CKD upon the achievement of clinical development milestones under the CKD Agreement. During 2015, we received a total of $0.6 million, net of foreign taxes, from CKD upon the achievement of two clinical development milestones under the CKD Agreement. The CKD Agreement continues until CKD no longer has any obligation to pay us royalties on any product. Either we or CKD may terminate the CKD Agreement for the other party&#146;s breach of the CKD Agreement or bankruptcy. CKD may terminate the CKD Agreement if any of the licensed patent rights is invalid, unenforceable, is narrowed in scope or is deemed unpatentable, except as a result of a challenge by CKD, or a third party commercializes a product containing a compound identical to CR845 without infringing any of the licensed patent rights in South Korea. We may terminate the CKD Agreement if CKD challenges the licensed patent rights or if a third party in South Korea owns an issued patent that claims CR845 and CKD&#146;s sale of products would infringe that patent. 

&#160;

Sales and Marketing 

In executing our strategy, our goal is to have significant control over the development process and commercial execution for I.V. CR845 in the United States. We anticipate developing a distribution capability and commercial organization in the United States to market and sell our I.V. product candidates in the acute care setting, while out-licensing commercialization rights in certain geographical territories outside of the United States. For Oral CR845, we plan to explore late-stage development and commercialization partnerships both in the United States and worldwide. 

We have commissioned market research for I.V. CR845 that suggests it would be well received by physicians, if approved. This research indicated that in addition to providing pain relief, reducing side effects such as nausea and vomiting, were among the highest unmet needs in the postoperative setting. In our three Phase 2 trials, I.V. CR845 demonstrated statistically significant pain relief and statistically significant reductions in nausea and vomiting. As a result, we believe I.V. CR845 is well positioned to address unmet needs in the postoperative pain market. 

Additionally in September 2014, we conducted a quantitative primary market research study to evaluate the commercial opportunity of Oral CR845 for both acute and chronic pain in the United States. The study surveyed 100 physicians (Pain Specialists, Orthopedic Surgeons, Primary Care Physicians and Rheumologists) on their current treatment of acute and chronic pain. Physicians were then shown a profile of oral CR845 based on Cara&#146;s Phase 2 safety and efficacy data in laparoscopic hysterectomy and bunionectomy pain. Additionally, physicians were shown different levels of DEA drug scheduling for CR845 to evaluate. Key results were: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 84% of surveyed physicians report they are likely to prescribe the product to their patients with moderate-to-severe pain, with 55% &#147;very to extremely likely.&#148; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Physicians rated CR845 very favorably on features that were important when making treatment decisions such as safety profile and low abuse potential. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other key benefits mentioned included the fact that it has an appealing mechanism of action, and has lower CNS side effects. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Oral CR845 received significant preference share (&#62;30%) for patients with acute and chronic moderate-to-severe pain. As a result, we believe that oral CR845 represents a significant opportunity for patients in both acute and chronic pain. 

Finally in 2015, we commissioned a qualitative market research study of nephrologists to evaluate the commercial potential of I.V. CR845 for uremic pruritus. The study suggests CR845 would be well received by nephrologists, if approved. The key findings from the study were: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; There is a clear unmet need to manage uremic pruritus among dialysis patients. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Currently, there are no effective options for severe uremic pruritus. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CR845 demonstrates impressive efficacy for uremic pruritus. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Physicians were impressed with placebo-like adverse event profile. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; I.V. CR845 can easily be incorporated into dialysis sessions. As a result, we believe that I.V. CR845 is well positioned to address the unmet needs for hemodialysis patients suffering from uremic pruritus. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patent protection intended to cover the composition of matter of our product candidates, their methods of use, related technology and other inventions that are important to our business. As more fully described below, patent applications have been filed covering compositions of matter for and methods of using CR845. Eight issued U.S. patents directed to CR845 and its uses, and two allowed applications, when issued, are expected to expire no earlier than 2027. We also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

&#160;

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop, strengthen, and maintain our proprietary position in the field of peripheral analgesia. 

A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights, which are important or necessary to the development of our products. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. If we were not able to obtain a license, or were not able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. 

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property estate by filing patent applications directed to novel peripheral analgesics and novel uses of our proprietary compounds. We anticipate seeking patent protection in the United States and internationally for compositions of matter covering the compounds, the chemistries and processes for manufacturing these compounds and the use of these compounds in a variety of therapies. 

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and the patent&#146;s scope can be modified after issuance. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our product candidates will be protectable or remain protected by enforceable patents. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. 

Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of our entitlement to the inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to determine priority of invention, or in post-grant challenge proceedings in the USPTO or a foreign patent office such as oppositions, inter-partes review, post grant review, or a derivation proceeding, that challenge our entitlement to an invention or the patentability of one or more claims in our patent applications or issued patents. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. 

The patent portfolios for our most advanced programs are summarized below. 

CR845 

Our synthetic peptide amide kappa opioid agonist patent portfolio is wholly owned by us. The portfolio includes ten issued U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,402,564; 7,713,937; 7,727,963; 7,842,662; 8,217,007; 8,236,766; 8,486,894, 8,536,131, 8,906,859 and 8,951,970) with claims to compositions of a wide range of synthetic peptide amide kappa opioid agonists, including CR845 and related molecules, as well as methods of using these compounds. U.S. Patent No. 7,402,564, which is the earliest issued U.S. patent claiming CR845 compositions is due to expire November 12, 2027, although under certain circumstances the patent term may be extended for up to a further five (5) years based upon the Hatch-Waxman Act. The CR845 patent portfolio also includes pending U.S. patent applications which claim additional uses and methods of administering CR845. Related foreign applications were filed in more than 40 other countries. National patents have been granted in 31 European countries, as well as in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Israel Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and South Korea. These granted foreign patents with claims to CR845 are due expire no earlier than November 12, 2027. Patent applications claiming CR845 are pending in Brazil and India and a Canadian application with claims covering CR845 has been allowed. 

&#160;

CR701 

Our imidazoheterocycle cannabinoid compound patent portfolio, which is wholly owned by us, includes U.S. Patent Nos. 7,517,874, 8,431,565 and 8,859,538; and a pending U.S. patent application claiming CR701, related compounds, and methods of using these compounds. These U.S. patents are due to expire no earlier than June 20, 2028. A related international PCT application was filed and sixteen national patent applications and a European regional patent application has been filed based on the international patent application. The European regional patent has been granted as have national patents in Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Russia and South Africa. These and any other patents resulting from the pending national patent applications, if issued, expire no earlier than June 20, 2028. Patent applications claiming CR701 are pending in Brazil, China, India and South Korea and has been allowed in Canada. 

Other Cara Patents and Patent Applications 

We also own several other U.S. Patents including U.S. Patent Nos. 7,741,350; 7,960,376; 7,960,377 and 8,211,926 with claims to other cannabinoid compounds and U.S. Patent No. 8,217,000 with claims to regulation of prolactin in mammals including humans. 

In addition, our kappa receptor opioid peptide patent portfolio, which is wholly owned by us, includes U.S. Patent No. 5,965,701 claiming CR665, our first generation kappa opioid receptor agonist, related compounds, and methods of using these compounds. U.S. Patent No. 5,965,701 is due to expire no earlier than December 23, 2017. A related international PCT application was filed and national patent applications have been granted in over 40 other countries. Granted patents with claims to CR665 have been maintained in Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Russia, Spain and U.K. are due to expire December 22, 2018. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a PCT application or a non-provisional patent application. The term of a patent in the United States can be adjusted and extended due to the failure of the United States Patent and Trademark Office following certain statutory and regulation deadlines for progressing prosecution and issuing a patent. 

In the United States, the patent term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for a portion of the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other non-United States jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. Although we intend to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and even if granted, the length of such extensions. 

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual&#146;s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual, and which are related to our current or planned business or research and development, or R&#38;D, or made during normal working hours, on our premises or using our equipment or proprietary information, are our exclusive property. 

&#160;

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, and medical technology companies. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

There are a large number of companies developing or marketing pain therapies for the indications that we are pursuing. Many of our competitors, including many of the organizations named below, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of competitors. Small or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. We also compete with these companies in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials. 

We believe the key competitive factors that will affect the development and commercial success of our product candidates, if approved for marketing, are likely to be their safety, efficacy and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement from government and third party payers. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third party payers seeking to encourage the use of generic products. Generic products that broadly address these indications are currently on the market for the indications that we are pursuing, and additional products are expected to become available on a generic basis over the coming years. If our product candidates achieve marketing approval, we expect that they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic products. 

If our product candidates are approved for the indications for which we are currently undertaking clinical trials, they will compete with the therapies and currently marketed drugs discussed below: 

I.V. CR845 &#150; Acute Pain. We are developing I.V. CR845 for the management of acute postoperative pain in adult patients. The market for management of postoperative pain is highly fragmented and can be segmented into three general classes of products: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mu opioid-based products, such as morphine, fentanyl, hydrocodone, and hydromorphone, all of which are available generically; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; local anesthetic-based products, such as lidocaine and bupivacaine, which are available generically; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adjunctive analgesics, which are defined as non-mu opioid pain-relieving drugs that provide additional control of postoperative pain. There has been a trend in recent years for anesthesiologists to use all three classes of products to manage postoperative pain, often referred to as &#147;multimodal analgesia.&#148; If approved, I.V. CR845 would be competing within the overall acute postoperative pain market, although we expect that it would compete primarily with injectable mu-opioid analgesics, such as morphine, fentanyl and hydromorphone. Although these products are generically available, they cause significant mu-opioid side effects such as nausea and vomiting, sedation, constipation and respiratory depression, which add significant cost to managing a post-operative patient. 

&#160;

In addition to the above products approved for use as adjunctive analgesics for moderate-to-severe pain, there have been clinical reports that generic drugs originally approved for other indications, such as gabapentin and pregabalin, as well as dexmedetomidine, dextromethorphan, and clonidine may exhibit efficacy in the treatment of postoperative pain, and these and other such drugs may be used off-label for this purpose and, therefore, also compete with I.V. CR845. Additionally, numerous companies are developing additional product candidates for the treatment of acute postoperative pain. 

I.V. CR845 - Uremic Pruritus. We are developing I.V. CR845 for the management of uremic pruritus in hemodialysis patients. Currently, there are no approved products for management of uremic pruritus in the United States. However, there are many products that are being tried to help manage uremic pruritus. The most common agents tried are anti-itch creams and emollients as well as oral or injectable antihistamines. All of these products have limited degrees of efficacy and are available generically. Additionally, patients may try several other agents such as gabapentin, naltrexone, and UVB light therapy, generally with limited success. 

Because of the substantial unmet need for products that are safe and effective in uremic pruritus, there are several companies involved in the discovery, development, and/or marketing of such products. Such product candidates include nalbuphine, asimadoline and nalfurafine. 

Oral CR845. We are developing Oral CR845 for the management of moderate-to-severe acute and chronic pain. The market for the management of moderate-to-severe acute and chronic pain is highly fragmented and includes numerous generic as well as brand name products, including oral formulations of NSAIDs and controlled-release mu opioids. Common NSAIDs include Celebrex, which is marketed by Pfizer, and naproxen and ibuprofen, which are available generically. Common branded oral mu opioids include, among others: Avinza, an extended-release morphine sulfate capsule marketed by Pfizer; EXALGO, an extended-release hydromorphone hydrochloride tablet marketed by Mallinckrodt; Kadian, an extended-release morphine sulfate capsule marketed by Actavis; NUCYNTA ER, an extended release formulation of tapentadol and OxyContin, a controlled-release oxycodone hydrochloride tablet marketed by Purdue Pharma. In addition to oral therapies, Janssen Pharmaceuticals markets Duragesic, a fentanyl transdermal patch. 

Because of the size of the chronic pain market and the substantial unmet need for products that are safe and effective, there are a large number of companies involved in the discovery, development, and/or marketing of such products. These product candidates include immediate release and extended release formulations of various NSAIDs and mu opioids. These include combination products that include mu opioid combined with an NSAID or acetaminophen, such as Vicodin (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) and Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen). Additionally, there are other product candidates in development with non-opioid mechanisms of action. 

CR701. We plan to develop CR701 for neuropathic pain indications such as postherpetic neuralgia, or PHN, and neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, or DPN. If approved for marketing, CR701 will compete against more established products that have been approved for treatment of various neuropathic pain indications. One of the most widely-prescribed drug in the United States for treatment of neuropathic pain is gabapentin, which is marketed by Pfizer and is also available generically. Gralise, a once-daily tablet formulation of gabapentin for the treatment of PHN, is marketed by Depomed. Pfizer markets Lyrica, an oral anticonvulsant, for use in the treatment of PHN and neuropathic pain associated with DPN. Janssen Pharmaceuticals markets Nucynta, an extended-release mu opioid tablet, for neuropathic pain associated with DPN. Topical prescription products currently marketed in the United States for neuropathic pain indications include Lidoderm, a lidocaine patch marketed by Endo Pharmaceuticals for PHN, and Qutenza, a capsaicin patch marketed by Acorda Therapeutics for PHN. 

In addition to the foregoing products and product candidates, a number of products that are approved for treatment of other diseases are used by physicians to treat PHN, and it is possible that other such products will be shown to exhibit efficacy in the future and thereby emerge as competitors to CR701 for the treatment of different types of neuropathic pain. There are many other companies working to develop new drugs and other therapies to treat neuropathic pain. 

&#160;

Manufacturing 

We do not have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture if our product candidates receive marketing approval. At this time, none of our contract manufacturing agreements limit where, or with whom we can contract for commercial manufacture or distribution. It is our intention that by the time of any regulatory approvals for commercialization, we will have negotiated long-term commitments with at least one primary and one secondary supplier for each manufacturing and distribution function. 

All of our product candidates are either small peptides or organic small molecules and are manufactured in reliable and reproducible synthetic processes from readily available starting materials. The chemistry is amenable to scale up and does not require any special equipment or technology in the manufacturing process. We expect to continue to develop product candidates that can be produced cost-effectively at contract manufacturing facilities. 

Government Regulation and Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

FDA Regulation 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA&#146;s refusal to approve pending NDAs, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, in accordance with good clinical practices, or cGCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity, as well as satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of selected clinical sites to determine cGCP compliance; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; potential DEA review and scheduling activities prior to launch for some of our product candidates. Preclinical Studies. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of drug substance chemistry, toxicity and drug product formulation, as well as animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Manufacture of drug substance, drug product and the labeling and distribution of clinical supplies must all comply with cGMP standards. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with cGCP requirements, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must continue to oversee the clinical trial while it is being conducted. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In Phase 1, the drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an initial indication of its effectiveness. In Phase 2, the drug typically is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. In Phase 3, the drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Marketing Approval. Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has agreed to certain performance goals regarding the timing of its review of an application. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. 

&#160;

The FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks and ensure safe use of the drug. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization tools. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held meets standards designed to assure the product&#146;s continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA may refer an application for a novel drug to an external advisory committee. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured, referred to as a Pre-Approval Inspection. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with cGCP. 

The testing and approval process for an NDA requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take several years to complete. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval of an NDA on a timely basis, or at all. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing in order for FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA may issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. For some products, an additional step of DEA review and scheduling is required. 

Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, including a boxed warning, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms under a REMS which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

&#160;

Post-Approval Requirements. Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, and compliance with any post-approval requirements imposed as a condition of approval, such as Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to assess safety and effectiveness after commercialization. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies generally are required to promote their drug products only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. 

DEA Regulation 

I.V. CR845, Oral CR845 or our other product candidates, if approved, may be regulated as a &#147;controlled substance&#148; as defined in the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or CSA, which establishes registration, security, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, distribution and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA is concerned with the control of handlers of controlled substances, and with the equipment and raw materials used in their manufacture and packaging, in order to prevent loss and diversion into illicit channels of commerce. 

&#160;

The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances. Schedule I substances by definition have no established medicinal use, and may not be marketed or sold in the United States. A pharmaceutical product may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances. The manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of Schedule II substances are subject to a high degree of regulation. 

Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The registration is specific to the particular location, activity and controlled substance schedule. For example, separate registrations are needed for import and manufacturing, and each registration will specify which schedules of controlled substances are authorized. 

The DEA typically inspects a facility to review its security measures prior to issuing a registration. Security requirements vary by controlled substance schedule, with the most stringent requirements applying to Schedule I and Schedule II substances. Required security measures include background checks on employees and physical control of inventory through measures such as cages, surveillance cameras and inventory reconciliations. Records must be maintained for the handling of all controlled substances, and periodic reports made to the DEA, for example distribution reports for Schedule I and II controlled substances, Schedule III substances that are narcotics, and other designated substances. Reports must also be made for thefts or losses of any controlled substance, and to obtain authorization to destroy any controlled substance. In addition, special authorization and notification requirements apply to imports and exports. 

In addition, a DEA quota system controls and limits the availability and production of controlled substances in Schedule I or II. Distributions of any Schedule I or II controlled substance must also be accompanied by special order forms, with copies provided to the DEA. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Our quota of an active ingredient may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches. 

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we and our collaborators will be subject to state regulation with respect to the distribution of these products. 

Fraud and Abuse, Data Privacy and Security and Transparency Laws and Regulations 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, federal and state health care regulatory laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. These laws include, among other things, anti-kickback and false claims laws and regulations, physician payment transparency laws and regulations, as well as data privacy and security laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. 

&#160;

Additionally, the intent standard under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute was also amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the &#147;Health Care Reform Law&#148;), to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law provided that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. 

Federal false claims laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act prohibit, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes &#147;any request or demand&#148; for money or property presented to the U.S. government. The civil False Claims Act has been used to assert liability on the basis of kickbacks and other improper referrals, improperly reported government pricing metrics such as Best Price or Average Manufacturer Price, improper use of Medicare provider or supplier numbers when detailing a provider of services, improper promotion of off-label uses not expressly approved by FDA in a drug&#146;s label, and allegations as to misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered. Additionally, the civil monetary penalties statute, which, among other things, imposes fines against any person or entity who is determined to have presented, or caused to be presented, claims to a federal healthcare program that the person knows, or should know, is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. Additionally, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payers and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. 

In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final HIPAA Omnibus Rule published on January 25, 2013, imposes specified requirements on certain types of individuals and entities relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes security standards and certain privacy standards directly applicable to business associates. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws may govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Additionally, federal transparency laws, including the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act created under Section 6002 of the Health Care Reform Law and its implementing regulations, require that manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians (defined to include doctors of medicine, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), generally, with some exceptions, and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals. Additionally, applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations are required to report annually to CMS certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members. 

There are also an increasing number of analogous state laws that require manufacturers to file reports with states on pricing and marketing information, such as tracking and reporting of gifts, compensations, other 

&#160;

remuneration and items of value provided to healthcare professionals and healthcare entities. Many of these laws contain ambiguities as to what is required to comply with such laws. For example, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to, among other things, establish and implement commercial compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities and/or register their sales representatives. Certain state laws also regulate manufacturers&#146; use of prescriber-identifiable data. These laws may affect our future sales, marketing and other promotional activities by imposing administrative and compliance burdens. In addition, given the lack of clarity with respect to these laws and their implementation, our reporting actions once we commercialize could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state and federal authorities. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the health regulatory laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including criminal and significant civil monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

Coverage and Reimbursement Generally 

The commercial success of our product candidates and our ability to commercialize any approved product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental payer programs at the federal and state levels, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payers provide coverage for and establish adequate reimbursement levels for our product candidates. In the United States, private health insurers and other third party payers often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government provides reimbursement through the Medicare or Medicaid programs for such products and services. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which often has resulted in average selling prices lower than they would otherwise be. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and utilization, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. For example, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 

Patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payers to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. In addition, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for certain surgeries and other treatment therapies they perform, or a predetermined rate for all hospital inpatient care provided as payment in full. Because this amount may not be based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use therapies which are less expensive when compared to our product candidates. Sales of our product candidates will therefore depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payers. Third-party payers are increasingly imposing additional requirements and restrictions on coverage and limiting reimbursement levels for medical products, including pharmaceuticals. For example, federal and state governments reimburse covered prescription drugs at varying rates generally below average wholesale price. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drug products for a particular indication. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly 

&#160;

challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. Therefore, we may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. Moreover, a payer&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved, and one payer&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payers will also provide coverage. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in drug development. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our products and product candidates or exclusion of our products and product candidates from coverage. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product candidates. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain and maintain third party coverage or adequate reimbursement for our product candidates in whole or in part. 

Healthcare Regulatory Developments 

In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, the legislative landscape with respect to healthcare continues to evolve. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. 

For example, the Health Care Reform Law was passed in March 2010 and includes provisions that have substantially changed healthcare financing by both governmental and private insurers. Among other provisions that could have an impact on our business, the Health Care Reform Law, among other things, revised the methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers to the state and federal government for covered outpatient drugs under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, subjected manufacturers to new annual fees and taxes for certain branded prescription drugs, and provided incentives to programs that increase the federal government&#146;s comparative effectiveness research. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Law implemented a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the outpatient drugs being covered under Medicare Part D. The Health Care Reform Law&#146;s full impact on our business is unclear as many of its reforms require the promulgation of additional detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions which has not yet completely occurred. Further, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Health Care Reform Law, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments in the future. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Health Care Reform Law was enacted. In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year starting in 2013 and, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, will remain in effect until 2025, unless additional congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These and other healthcare reform initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare payments and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could further limit the prices we are able to charge, or the amounts of reimbursement available, for our product candidates once they are approved. 

&#160;

Foreign Regulation 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. For example, in the European Union, we must obtain authorization of a clinical trial application, or CTA, in each member state in which we intend to conduct a clinical trial. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Research and Development 

Conducting research and development is central to our business model. We have invested and expect to continue to invest significant time and capital in our research and development operations. Our research and development expenses were $21.2 million, $15.1 million and $8.7 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we seek to complete the development of I.V. CR845 and Oral CR845 and advance the development of CR701. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 20 employees, all of whom are located in the United States. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Website Access to Reports 

Our internet website is www.caratherapeutics.com . We make available free of charge on our website (under the heading &#147;SEC Filings&#148;) our Securities and Exchange (&#147;SEC&#148;) filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. The information provided on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is not incorporated by reference herein. 

In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet website (http://www.sec.gov) where our SEC filings may be accessed by the public. 

