 Item 1. Description of Business. 

(a) Business Development

Cat9 Group Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221; or the &#8220;Registrant&#8221;), formerly, ANDES 4 Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 26, 2015 and has been inactive since inception. The Company intends to serve as a vehicle to effect an asset acquisition, merger, exchange of capital stock or other business combination with a domestic or foreign business.

(b) Business of Issuer

Based on proposed business activities, we are a &#8220;blank check&#8221; company. The SEC defines those companies as &#8220;any development stage company that is issuing a penny stock, within the meaning of Section 3 (a)(51) of the Exchange Act, and that has no specific business plan or purpose, or has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an unidentified company or companies.&#8221; Many states have enacted statutes, rules and regulations limiting the sale of securities of &#8220;blank check&#8221; companies in their respective jurisdictions. Management does not intend to undertake any efforts to cause a market to develop in our securities, either debt or equity, until we have successfully concluded a business combination. We intend to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as we are subject to those requirements.

We were organized as a vehicle to investigate and, if such investigation warrants, acquire a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation. Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business.

The analysis of new business opportunities has and will be undertaken by or under the supervision of the officers and directors of the Registrant. The Registrant has considered potential acquisition transactions with several companies, but as of this date has not entered into any Letter of Intent or other agreement with any party. The Registrant has unrestricted flexibility in seeking, analyzing and participating in potential business opportunities. In its efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, the Registrant will consider the following kinds of factors:

&#160;(a) Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products;

&#160;(b) Competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole;

&#160; 4 &#160; 

&#160;(c) Strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment;

&#160;(d) Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds, to be provided by the Registrant or from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources;

&#160;(e) The cost of participation by the Registrant as compared to the perceived tangible and intangible values and potentials;

&#160;(f) The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced;

&#160;(g) The accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and

&#160;(h) Other relevant factors.

In applying the foregoing criteria, no one of which will be controlling, management will attempt to analyze all factors and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Due to the Registrant&#8217;s limited capital available for investigation, the Registrant may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the opportunity to be acquired.

Form of Acquisition 

The manner in which the Registrant participates in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, the respective needs and desires of the Registrant and the promoters of the opportunity, and the relative negotiating strength of the Registrant and such promoters.

It is likely that the Registrant will acquire its participation in a business opportunity through the issuance of common stock or other securities of the Registrant. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called &#8220;tax free&#8221; reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;), depends upon whether the owners of the acquired business own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other &#8220;tax free&#8221; provisions provided under the Code, all prior stockholders would in such circumstances retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. Under other circumstances, depending upon the relative negotiating strength of the parties, prior stockholders may retain substantially less than 20% of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were stockholders of the Registrant prior to such reorganization.

The present stockholders of the Registrant will likely not have control of a majority of the voting shares of the Registrant following a reorganization transaction. As part of such a transaction, all or a majority of the Registrant&#8217;s directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by stockholders.

In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of management without any vote or approval by stockholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving us, it will likely be necessary to call a stockholders&#8217; meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares. The necessity to obtain such stockholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting stockholders. Most likely, management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require stockholder approval.

&#160; 5 &#160; 

It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs theretofore incurred in the related investigation would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in the loss to the Registrant of the related costs incurred.

We presently have no employees. Our officers and directors are engaged in outside business activities and anticipate that he will devote to our business only several hours per week until the acquisition of a successful business opportunity has been consummated. We expect no significant changes in the number of our employees other than such changes, if any, incident to a business combination.

