 Item 1. Business 

CymaBay Overview 

CymaBay Therapeutics, Inc. is focused on developing therapies to treat metabolic diseases with high unmet medical need, including serious rare and orphan disorders. Our two key clinical development candidates are MBX-8025 and arhalofenate. 

We are currently developing MBX-8025 for the treatment of various orphan lipid and liver diseases. In an earlier Phase 2 clinical study conducted in patients with mixed dyslipidemia, MBX-8025 demonstrated favorable effects on cholesterol, triglycerides and markers of liver health. In March 2016, we announced data from a second Phase 2 clinical study evaluating MBX-8025 in 13 patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). Five patients in this study experienced what we believe was a clinically meaningful maximal decrease in low density lipoprotein (LDL-C) of greater than 20% with three of them having decreases greater than 30%. However, given the variability in responses observed in this study, including a number of patients that did not experience a decrease in LDL-C, we believe additional proof-of-concept data would be warranted before determining whether or not to advance to a registration study of MBX-8025 in patients with HoFH. In November 2015, we initiated a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 study of MBX-8025 in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), formerly referred to as primary biliary cirrhosis. In this study, approximately 75 patients with PBC who have had an inadequate response to ursodiol are to be enrolled and randomized to receive either placebo or MBX-8025 (either 50 mg or 200 mg) for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint will be the change in alkaline phosphatase, and the study is expected to include patients from the U.S., as well as Canada, Germany, Poland and the U.K. We expect this study to be completed by the end of 2016. We also believe that MBX-8025 could have utility in the treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG) and the more prevalent, but high unmet need, indication of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We have obtained orphan-drug designations for MBX-8025 in both HoFH and SHTG (Frederickson type I or V hyperlipoproteinemia). 

Arhalofenate, is being developed for the treatment of gout. Arhalofenate has been studied in five Phase 2 clinical trials in patients with gout and consistently demonstrated the ability to reduce gout flares and reduce serum uric acid (sUA). Gout flares are recurring and painful episodes of joint inflammation that are triggered by 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements the presence of monosodium urate crystals that form as a result of elevated sUA levels. We believe the potential for arhalofenate to prevent or reduce flares while also lowering sUA could differentiate it from currently available treatments for gout and classify it as the first potential drug in what we believe could be a new class of gout therapy referred to as Urate Lowering Anti-Flare Therapy (ULAFT). Arhalofenate has established a favorable safety profile in clinical trials involving over 1,100 patients exposed to date. We have completed end of phase 2 discussions with the FDA and intend to partner arhalofenate prior to advancing into phase 3 development. 

CymaBay has reported net losses of $15.5 million and $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances as of December 31, 2015, were $41.5 million. Our average monthly cash usage for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $1.9 million. As more completely described below under the heading &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#148; we have engaged in a series of private placements and public offerings from September 2013 through December 2015, pursuant to which we have raised an aggregate of $76.1 million of proceeds after deducting placement agent fees and offering expenses. We believe that our existing cash will allow us to continue operation through at least the next twelve months. 

CymaBay Strategy 

Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing proprietary new medicines for metabolic and rare diseases with high unmet need. Key elements of our strategy are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; develop MBX-8025 for high unmet need or orphan indications linked to defects in lipid storage, handling and utilization and certain diseases effecting liver function; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; develop arhalofenate as a dual-acting treatment to lower sUA and prevent or reduce flares in patients with gout; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pursue partnerships to advance and commercialize arhalofenate and potentially other clinical candidates; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; strengthen our patent portfolio and other means of protecting exclusivity. CymaBay Pipeline Overview 

Our pipeline includes three unpartnered clinical stage product candidates and a number of preclinical programs. 

MBX-8025 

MBX-8025 is a selective agonist for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPAR&#100;). An agonist is a substance that elicits a response by binding to a receptor. The PPAR&#100; receptor is a nuclear receptor that regulates genes involved in lipid storage, transport and metabolism (particularly fatty acid oxidation), in insulin signaling and sensitivity, and regulates certain inflammatory cells. MBX-8025 has the potential to treat a variety of disorders of lipid metabolism and certain diseases of the liver. Previously, MBX-8025 had been in development for the treatment of mixed dyslipidemia, which is characterized by elevated LDL-C and triglycerides (TGs). Results from our Phase 2 clinical study of MBX-8025 in patients with mixed dyslipidemia established effects of the drug that we believe have the potential to benefit patients affected with other conditions. In this study, MBX-8025 demonstrated an anti-atherogenic profile in which it lowered LDL-C, decreased the more atherogenic small dense LDL-C particles and raised HDL-C. In addition, MBX-8025 decreased TGs and free fatty acids. MBX-8025 also decreased C-reactive protein, a marker of systemic and local inflammation. Treatment with MBX-8025 also resulted in significant reductions in alkaline phosphatase (AP) and in gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT). Taken together these metabolic improvements suggest that 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements MBX-8025 can address disorders manifested by increases in LDL-C, increases in TGs, liver cholestasis (the impairment of the flow of bile from the liver) and liver fat accumulation with subsequent inflammation. 

Based on an evaluation of possible indications, we have decided to focus the development of MBX-8025 for serious rare and orphan diseases or more prevalent diseases with high unmet medical need and for which we can obtain positive initial clinical data in studies of less than six months duration. Compounds like MBX-8025 that work by interacting with the PPAR class of receptors (PPARa, PPARg and PPARd) are subject to a FDA partial clinical hold which limits clinical studies to durations of less than six months until the two-year rodent carcinogenicity studies are completed and evaluated. The decision as to whether to lift the hold is based on a benefit/risk assessment made by the FDA in which they weigh the potential benefit of the therapy for the proposed indication vs. any potential risk that may be identified from the rodent carcinogenicity findings. Thus, the lifting of the hold is typically taken when the carcinogenicity data (and the results of any subsequent de-risking experiments) and clinical efficacy data are both in hand. We have completed the carcinogenicity studies for MBX-8025 and have had discussions with the FDA regarding them. We have initiated additional experiments seeking to confirm that the findings are not relevant to human risk. Some of these experiments have been completed and others are on-going. Our goal is to complete the outstanding de-risking studies and to provide those data together with clinical data from HoFH and/or PBC to the FDA so that they can determine whether to lift the partial clinical hold. The decision on timing to meet with the FDA to discuss lifting the partial clinical hold is contingent on the availability and strength of the results from each of the HoFH and PBC studies. We will make those decisions when the results have been obtained and interpreted. 

We believe MBX-8025 may provide a significant benefit for patients across a wide range of rare diseases associated with disorders of lipid metabolism, such as homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) and severe hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG) syndromes, and disorders of liver function, such as primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). We also believe that MBX-8025 could have utility in the treatment of the more prevalent, but high unmet need, indication of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). 

Nonclinical Overview 

In vitro studies with cells and animal tissues, showed that MBX-8025 up-regulates genes involved in the metabolism and handling of lipids, most notably stimulation of fatty acid synthesis, transport and oxidation. 

In preclinical studies in rodents, dogs and primates, MBX-8025 demonstrated a variety of beneficial effects on the lipid profile and other metabolic parameters. MBX-8025 treatment increased peripheral oxidation of fatty acids leading to reduced levels of TGs and LDL-C, while raising HDL-C. MBX-8025 also inhibited fat mass accumulation, resulting in attenuation of body weight gain in rodent models of obesity. 

Three-month toxicology studies in rodents (alone and in combination with atorvastatin, the generic name of the cholesterol lowering drug Lipitor &#174; ) and in monkeys have been completed. In 2014, we initiated six month and twelve month toxicology studies of MBX-8025 in rodents and monkeys, respectively, that we expect to be completed and analyzed by the second quarter of 2016. In addition, the two-year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed. Johnson &#38; Johnson Pharmaceutical Research &#38; Development filed an IND for this compound with the FDA in July 2005 and subsequently transferred the application to CymaBay in March 2007. 

Clinical Studies with MBX-8025 

Five Phase 1 and two Phase 2 clinical trials with MBX-8025 have been completed. A third Phase 2 clinical trial is currently ongoing in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). The first phase 2 clinical trial in overweight and obese patients with mixed dyslipidemia was an eight-week trial in which MBX-8025 was administered at doses of 50 or 100 mg/day both alone and in combination with 20 mg/day of atorvastatin. This study also had a placebo arm and a 20 mg/day atorvastatin monotherapy arm. Treatment effects with MBX-8025 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements observed in this study included lowering of LDL-C with selective depletion of pro-atherogenic dense LDL-C particles, decreases in triglycerides and increases in HDL. Patients taking MBX-8025 also experienced decreased levels of alkaline phosphatase and gamma glutamyl transferase, which when elevated are biochemical markers of cholestasis. 

Based on our understanding of the mechanism of action of MBX-8025 and our prior clinical experience with the compound, we have redirected the development of MBX-8025 toward serious rare and orphan diseases or more prevalent diseases with higher unmet medical need. We have focused on diseases in which there is a clear scientific rationale or clinical data to suggest that the beneficial effects of MBX-8025 observed in our mixed dyslipidemia trial may be retained in that disease population, include HoFH, PBC, SHTG and NASH. Our Phase 2 studies with MBX-8025 in HoFH and PBC are summarized below. 

Homozymogous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) 

HoFH is a rare, life-threatening, genetic disease characterized by marked elevations in plasma levels of LDL-C leading to severe atherosclerosis and the development of premature cardiovascular diseases. While normal LDL-C levels are approximately 100 mg/dL, patients with HoFH may have levels in the 500 to 1000 mg/dL range. Symptomatic cardiovascular disease often presents during the first decades of life leading to myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and death. If untreated, most HoFH patients do not survive beyond the age of 30. 

HoFH is caused by loss-of-function mutations in both copies of the low-density lipoprotein receptor ( ldlr ) gene, leading to reduced or absent LDL-receptor protein (LDL-R) function. The disease affects approximately one in one million persons. The loss of LDL-R function leads to impaired removal of circulating LDL-C by the liver, resulting in exceptionally high LDL-C blood concentrations. 

Treatment of HoFH is focused on reducing LDL-C levels, as compelling evidence exists from randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies to support the causality of LDL-C in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Considerable evidence implicates LDL-C as a causal mediator of cardiovascular disease in HoFH patients and reductions in LDL-C can be expected to decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease. HoFH subjects sometimes undergo a procedure called LDL-C apheresis, a process resembling dialysis in which blood is removed from a patient, the plasma is separated from blood cells, and the plasma is passed over a column to remove LDL prior to recombining it with the blood cells and returned to the patient. The reduction in LDL-C by apheresis has been shown to reduce cardiovascular events in HoFH patients. Initial treatment of HoFH entails adoption of a low fat diet and exercise program, usually with limited effectiveness. This is followed by first-line therapies for reducing LDL-C, including statins, cholesterol absorption inhibitors and bile acid sequestrants. Unfortunately, these conventional therapies work largely through up-regulation of the LDL-R. Thus, they do not provide optimal control of LDL-C in patients with HoFH in whom LDL-R activity is impaired or absent. Patients having a small amount of residual LDL-R activity may receive a modest reduction in LDL-C with maximal conventional therapy, but most patients with HoFH respond insufficiently. 

As mentioned above, LDL apheresis is complicated mechanical method to reduce LDL-C and is currently a treatment of last resort for HoFH. It is a complex and inconvenient procedure that sometimes requires an arterio-venous fistula, similar to the situation for patients undergoing chronic dialysis. The procedure is not widely available. Apheresis transiently reduces LDL-C, but rebound of LDL-C levels requires that it be repeated chronically every one to two weeks. 

Several drugs have been recently approved for use in combination with diet, exercise and conventional lipid lowering therapy to treat HoFH. The first is lomitapide (Juxtapid, Aegerion &#174; Pharmaceuticals) that lowers LDL-C by inhibiting microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP), a protein whose activity is required for the production of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL-C), a precursor of LDL-C. Lomitapide produces decreases in LDL-C of approximately 40% from a baseline LDL-C level of 337 mg/dL and gets 28% of patients to the LDL-C 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements target of &#60;100 mg/dL. A side effect of lomitapide treatment is that fat accumulates in the liver, thereby causing hepatic steatosis, with or without concurrent increases in transaminases. For this reason, the drug carries a black box warning and a requirement for monthly liver function monitoring tests. Lomitapide also blocks MTP in enterocytes (cells lining the gastrointestinal tract), leading to an accumulation of fat in the intestinal mucosa. This can reduce the absorption of fat-soluble nutrients and causes gastrointestinal issues (diarrhea, abdominal pain). Subjects on lomitapide should be prescribed concomitant fat-soluble vitamin supplementation and should adhere to a restrictive diet supplying less than 20% of energy from fat. 

The second drug is mipomersen (Kynamro, Genzyme Corp.). It lowers LDL-C by acting as an anti-sense oligonucleotide inhibitor that blocks the synthesis of apo B-100, the protein component of LDL-C. Mipomersen lowers LDL-C by approximately 25% from a baseline LDL-C of 439 mg/dL. Like lomitapide, mipomersen causes the accumulation of fat in the liver, confers a risk of hepatic steatosis and carries a black box warning and requirement for monthly liver function monitoring tests. 

The third and most recently approved drug for HoFH is evolocumab (Repatha, Amgen Inc.). Evolocumab is a human monoclonal IgG2 antibody directed against human proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin 9 (PCSK9). Evolocumab binds to PCSK9 and inhibits circulating PCSK9 from binding to the LDL-R, preventing PCSK9 targeting of LDL-R degradation and permitting LDL-R to recycle back to the liver cell surface. By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDL-R, evolocumab increases the number of hepatic cell surface LDL-Rs available to clear LDL from the blood, thereby lowering LDL-C levels. 

While these drugs offer additional treatment options for patients with HoFH, there remains a high degree of unmet medical need. Even with an aggressive combination of available therapies, subjects with HoFH generally have LDL-C levels substantially above treatment targets. Many patients also have difficulty accessing or tolerating available treatments. 

In January 2015, we announced preclinical data demonstrating the potential of MBX-8025 to treat patients with HoFH. MBX-8025 gave durable and significant decreases in LDL-C concentrations of greater than 40% in the Watanabe Heritable Hyperlipidemic rabbit, an accepted pre-clinical model of human HoFH. Based on this preclinical data, our understanding of the mechanism of action of MBX-8025 and the remaining unmet need for these patients despite the approval of recent therapies, we conducted a Phase 2 pilot study of MBX-8025 in HoFH patients. 

Phase 2 Study of MBX-8025 in HoFH 

In April 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 study of MBX-8025 in patients with HoFH. This was an open label, dose escalation study of 12 weeks duration conducted at five centers in Europe and Canada. Thirteen patients were enrolled, all of whom had genetically confirmed HoFH, including 2 subjects who had functionally negative mutations in their LDL-R genes. All of the subjects were taking ezetimibe and were on maximum statin therapy. None of the study participants received lomitapide, mipomersen or a PCSK9 inhibitor. Eight patients were undergoing concomitant apheresis on a weekly or biweekly schedule. Despite being on maximal conventional therapy, the average baseline LDL-C was 368 mg/dL. Subjects received once daily treatment with 50 mg of MBX-8025 for 4 weeks, after which the dose was escalated to 100 and 200 mg in successive 4 week periods. The goals of the study were to evaluate the effect on LDL-C as well as a spectrum of other lipid-related parameters, including PCSK9 levels, and to collect safety information. 

Two different per-protocol analyses were performed on 12 subjects. A responder analysis was carried out which reflects the largest decrease in LDL-C observed during treatment for each subject. Three subjects (25%) exhibited a greater than or equal to 30% decrease. Five subjects (42%) had a greater than or equal to 20% decrease, including one patient that was receptor negative and seven subjects (58%) had a greater than or equal to 15% decrease. Five subjects had a less than 15% decrease. The average maximum decrease in the study was 19%. Because of the high baseline LDL-C levels in these individuals, these percentage decreases correspond to 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements significant absolute decreases in LDL-C (mean decrease of 109 mg/dL for the subjects with the greater than or equal to 15% decrease). Although reductions in LDL-C tended to be greater at the higher doses, no clear dose response was observed. 

In a second analysis, the mean change in LDL-C for each subject was calculated by averaging values across all doses and dosing periods while on treatment. The overall mean change for all 12 subjects was a decrease of 10%. Eight of these subjects had a mean decrease in LDL-C of 16%, including three with a greater than 20% decrease. This included one patient who was receptor negative. This was offset by four patients who showed a mean increase of 4%. 

Mean PCSK9 was elevated at baseline (544 +/- 133 ng/mL), as anticipated for patients with HoFH, and increased during treatment by a mean of 43%. During the study, decreases in the mean levels of alkaline phosphatase (30%), gamma glutamyl transferase (27%) and total bilirubin (22%), which are markers of cholestasis, were also observed. There were three severe adverse events (SAEs), none drug related, and three treatment discontinuations for adverse events (AEs) possibly related to MBX-8025. 

The LDL-C levels of most HoFH patients are not optimally controlled and there is still a need for new therapeutic approaches. The finding that MBX-8025 lowers LDL-C while raising PCSK9 indicates that the full potential of MBX-8025 should be evaluated when treating HoFH patients on a background of maximal conventional lipid lowering therapy and a PCSK9 inhibitor. We are currently evaluating the feasibility of such a study. 

Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC) 

PBC is a slowly progressive autoimmune disease of the liver characterized by portal inflammation and immune-mediated destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts. The loss of bile duct function leads to decreased bile secretion and the retention of toxic substances within the liver, resulting in further hepatic damage, fibrosis, cirrhosis and, eventually, liver failure. It is a common cause of liver transplantation. 

PBC affects primarily women with peak incidence in the fifth decade of life. It has been recognized as an orphan disease both in the U.S. and in the E.U. It is a long-term debilitating and life-threatening disease. Fatigue and pruritus (itching) are the most common presenting symptoms. Pruritus, which occurs in 20 to 70% of patients, can be extremely distressing for patients. Other common findings include jaundice, hyperlipidemia (notably hypercholesterolemia), hypothyroidism, osteopenia and osteoporosis, and coexisting autoimmune diseases. Portal hypertension is a late complication of the disease, as is malabsorption, deficiencies of fat-soluble vitamins, and steatorrhea (excess fat in feces). 

Currently, the only FDA-approved treatment is ursodeoxycholic acid, also known as ursodiol, an isomer of chenodeoxycholic acid. Ursodiol decreases serum levels of AP, bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, cholesterol, and immunoglobulin M, all of which are elevated in patients with PBC and can serve as biochemical markers of the disease. In a study that combined data from three controlled trials with a total of 548 patients, ursodiol significantly reduced the likelihood of liver transplantation or death after four years. Ursodiol also delayed the progression of hepatic fibrosis in early-stage PBC, but was not effective in advanced disease. It is also known that up to 50% of PBC patients fail to respond to ursodiol therapy. 

Other therapies, such as colchicine, methothrexate, prednisone and multiple immunosuppressive regimens have been attempted. However, their efficacy is controversial, limited, or unproven and they are associated with multiple side-effects, impacting tolerance and safety. Liver transplantation improves survival in patients with PBC, and it is the only effective treatment for those with liver failure. However cirrhosis recurs in 15% of patients at three years and in 30% at 10 years. As a result, despite the previously mentioned therapeutic interventions, it is recognized that PBC continues to progress in many patients and additional medical treatment is needed to address this disease. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements The bile acid analog obeticholic acid (OCA, Intercept Pharmaceuticals) is under review by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency for PBC. OCA has received orphan designations in the U.S. and the E.U. and Fast Track status in the U.S. Clinical proof-of-concept has been established in two 12-week Phase 2 studies (one in ursodiol non-responders and one in treatment na&#239;ve or intolerant patients) using AP as the primary endpoint (&#60;1.67 times the upper limit of normal with &#62;15% reduction) + normal bilirubin. Approximately 40% of patients met the primary endpoint. A Phase 3 study was completed that met its primary endpoint. It remains unclear what the criteria are for registration. 

Both AP and GGT are common biochemical markers of cholestasis and their elevation is presumably a consequence of the toxic effects of retention of bile acids in liver cells. AP levels in PBC patients have been used as a primary outcome measure in proof-of-concept clinical trials and as a key secondary outcome in pivotal trials. The observation that MBX-8025 produces significant reductions in these surrogate markers suggests that the drug may improve biliary function, ameliorate cholestasis and, hence, be a novel treatment for PBC. The coordinate decrease in AP and GGT levels indicates that the AP decrease is indeed hepatic in origin. The magnitude of the change in AP with MBX-8025 (~30-40%) is similar to that seen after treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid after eight weeks. In addition to the potential benefit to improving biliary function, we believe MBX-8025 may confer improvements in lipid parameters including reductions in LDL-C and TGs. 

The precise mechanism by which MBX-8025 improves cholestasis by acting as a PPAR&#100; agonist is not fully understood. However, there is some supporting preclinical data. In the bile ligation model of cholestasis, the PPAR&#100; agonist KD3010 reduced hepatic injury, fibrosis and inflammation, while increasing survival. In addition, treatment of mice with the PPAR&#100; agonist GW610742 has been shown to produce significant and large increases in bile flow and the production of bile salts. 

Phase 2 Study of MBX-8025 in PBC 

In November 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 study of MBX-8025 in patients with primary biliary cholangitis. In this study, approximately 75 patients who have had an inadequate response to ursodiol will be enrolled and randomized to receive either placebo or MBX-8025 (either 50 mg or 200 mg once daily) for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint will be the change in alkaline phosphatase, a parameter that has been used in prior clinical studies with PBC and which is believed to reflect the status of the disease. A variety of secondary outcomes including safety, tolerability, effects of MBX-8025 on PBC response criteria, effects of MBX-8025 on other markers of liver function, lipids, pruritus and Quality of Life will also be studied. We expect the study to enroll patients in the U.S. as well as Canada, Germany, Poland and the U.K. and expect it to be completed by the end of 2016. 

Severe Hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG) 

Severe HTG (SHTG, TGs &#62; 500 mg/dL) is associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. As a result, management of HTG and SHTG is also an important goal of lipid therapy. Most patients with HTG can be managed with available TG-lowering therapies including fibrates, niacin and fish oil components. However, there remains an unmet need for addressing SHTG which may arise from a variety of circumstances. It is estimated that there are approximately five million patients in the U.S. with SHTG; however, the Fredrickson classification of hyperlipidemias further subdivides the overall population into several types, some of which can be classified as orphan diseases. 

According to the Fredrickson classification of hyperlipidemias, several types of HTG have been identified. This includes Type 1a, a rare genetic disease also called familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS), in which chylomicrons (lipoprotein particles formed in the intestine that are rich in TGs and which serve to transport lipid to other tissues in the body) are markedly elevated due to decreased activity of liporprotein lipase (LPL), the enzyme that is primarily responsible for their metabolism. FCS affects about one in one million people worldwide. Type 1b is another form characterized by a deficiency in a protein component of chylomicrons called apo-CII which is needed to activate LPL and facilitate chylomicron metabolism. Another form is Type 5 in 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements which very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) is elevated in addition to chylomicrons and is likely caused by yet incompletely defined variety of molecular defects. Elevated chylomicrons are thought to have a number of consequences including increased risk of acute and chronic pancreatitis which are serious medical conditions. Extremely high levels of TGs are a surrogate marker for high chylomicron levels. 

The need for better treatments for SHTG has been recognized and several new therapies either have been brought to the market or are in development. One popular approach has been to develop components of fish oil. Lovaza is a marketed drug that is a mixture of the omega-3 fatty acids esters eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) isolated from fish oil. In patients with SHTG (TGs &#62; 500 mg/dL), it has been shown to reduce TGs by over 40%, but the reductions are accompanied by increases in LDL-C of over 40%. Vascepa, an ethyl ester of EPA, is also on the market for the treatment of SHTG and lowers TGs by approximately 30% with no significant effect on LDL-C. Epanova is a complex mixture of polyunsaturated free fatty acids derived from fish oils, including multiple long-chain omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, with EPA, DHA, and docosapentaenoic acid being the most abundant forms. In patients with SHTG, Epanova produced decreases in TGs of approximately 30% with increases of approximately 25% in LDL-C. 

Other drugs are currently in earlier stage development for SHTG. ISIS-APOCIIIRX is an oligonucleotide inhibitor of apo-CIII, a lipoprotein component that regulates TG metabolism. Loss-of-function mutations in apo-CIII are associated with lower levels of TGs. In a Phase 2 study in patients with SHTG, ISIS-APOCIIIRX produced reductions in TGs of up to 70%. The effects on LDL-C were not reported. Another product candidate, CAT-2003, produced decreases in both fasting and post prandial (post meal) TGs in normal healthy volunteers and has been advanced into Phase 2 studies in SHTG. 

We believe that MBX-8025 may be able to benefit patients with SHTG by virtue of its ability to simultaneously lower TGs and LDL-C. This benefit has been observed both in monotherapy as well as in combination with atorvastatin in patients with mixed dyslipidemia. Drugs currently marketed for the treatment of SHTG lower TGs with either a worsening or lack of meaningful improvement in LDL-C. Recognizing that SHTG is a heterogeneous collection of diseases, we are continuing our assessment of the best patient populations to study in a small Phase 2 clinical trial. 

Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) / Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH) 

NAFLD is a disease characterized by accumulation of fat in the liver of people who drink little or not at all. Approximately one-third of NAFLD patients develop NASH, which is characterized by inflammation in the liver that is often accompanied by fibrosis. This can progress to cirrhosis, followed by eventual liver failure and death. NASH is the third most common reason for liver transplantation in the United States. NASH is a major challenge to healthcare systems worldwide. NASH is initially a silent disease, the first sign of which may be elevations in transaminases such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) from routine blood test panels. When further evaluation rules out medications, viral hepatitis, alcohol, etc. as a cause, or when imaging studies of the liver show fat, NASH is suspected. A confirmation of a diagnosis of NASH requires a liver biopsy. 

There are currently no drugs approved by the FDA for the treatment of NASH. However, a number of clinical studies have been carried out or are underway with drug candidates that may affect disease outcomes in patients with NASH, including OCA (Intercept Pharmaceuticals) and GFT505, a PPAR &#097; /&#100; agonist (Genfit SA). 

Based on data from our Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with mixed dyslipidemia and available data from other PPAR&#100; agonists, we believe MBX-8025 may have utility in treating patients with NASH. The decrease in GGT, a biochemical marker which has been recognized to be linked with hepatic fat accumulation, observed in our phase 2 mixed dyslipidemia trial is consistent with results reported for another PPAR&#100; agonist GW501516. A short term clinical trial with GW501516 demonstrated that the compound decreased hepatic fat. In addition to our clinical experience with MBX-8025, along with that of other PPAR&#100; agonists, the well documented property 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements that MBX-8025 induces the oxidation of fatty acid leads us to believe that our compound could potentially benefit patients affected with NAFLD who are further at risk of developing NASH. We continue to evaluate the opportunity to develop MBX-8025 in NASH among a number of additional indications. 

Arhalofenate&#151;Gout 

Gouty arthritis, or gout, is the most common form of inflammatory arthritis in men and affects more than eight million people in the United States (U.S.). Gout is caused by elevated levels of uric acid in the blood, or hyperuricemia. A great majority, approximately 90%, of gout patients have an under excretion of uric acid. The hallmark symptom of gout is a flare, characterized by debilitating pain, along with tenderness and inflammation of affected joints. Gout has a significant impact on patients&#146; quality of life and health care utilization. Patients experiencing gout flares miss an average of 4.6 more days of work per year than those without gout. Gout flares also result in increased health care utilization with approximately 35% of patients with moderate flare and 50% of patients with severe flare having at least one acute care visit per year. 

Gout flares are triggered by the presence of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in joints. These crystals are formed in tissues when the concentration of sUA exceeds its solubility limit (approximately 6.8 milligrams per deciliter mg/dL). Long term accumulation of MSU crystals in the body leads to the progression of gout with an increase in the frequency of flares, the involvement of multiple joints, their progressive deformation, and the appearance of masses of MSU crystals called tophi. Hence, the goal of treatment is to maintain sUA below 6 mg/dL, or even 5 mg/dL when tophi needs to be dissolved. Elevated levels of sUA, or hyperuricemia, most commonly results from the under excretion of uric acid by the kidney. Uric acid is normally filtered through the glomerular section of the kidney and reabsorbed in the proximal renal tubule back to the blood by specialized urate transporters/exchangers. 

Multiple clinical studies indicate that gout patients have a high incidence of comorbidities, such as hypertension (50% or more), chronic kidney disease (~40%), coronary artery disease (&#62;35%), and diabetes (~20%). Managing patients with these comorbidities is challenging because medication currently used to treat gout flares could be contraindicated. For instance, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have renal toxicity and corticosteroids worsen hypertension and diabetes. 

Market Opportunity 

Unmet Needs in the Treatment of Gout 

To halt the progression of gout and provide long term reduction in flares, MSU crystals must be eliminated from the body. Therefore, the major goals of gout treatment are to prevent flares and lower sUA to below 6 mg/dL in order to dissolve MSU crystals. Of the eight million patients with gout in the U.S., we estimate that over three million patients are on urate lowering therapy (ULT) and of these patients on ULTs, as many as 60% may not get to their sUA goal of below 6.0 mg/dL. In addition, we estimate about one million patients continue to experience three or more flares per year. According to a 2012 study, patients having three or more flares per year typically incur $10,000 more in annual health care costs than patients without gout. With a large number of patients not reaching the sUA goal of below 6 mg/dL on current therapies, gout remains a significantly undermanaged disease. Studies have also shown that abrupt decreases in sUA with existing ULTs paradoxically cause an increase in flares, leading many patients to discontinue or avoid therapy. Non-adherence to therapy is thus a significant problem. 

Current Treatment 

Xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitors are ULTs that decrease the production of uric acid. The XO inhibitors, allopurinol and febuxostat (marketed by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited as Uloric &#174; ), are the most commonly prescribed drugs in the ULT market. Generic allopurinol at doses up to 300 mg accounts for about 90% of ULT prescriptions in the U.S. Studies have shown that the most commonly prescribed doses of these 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements drugs (allopurinol 300 mg or febuxostat 40 mg) in the U.S. result in only about 40% of patients reaching the sUA goal of below 6.0 mg/dL. In addition, both allopurinol and febuxostat can cause an increase in gout flares for up to 6 &#150; 12 months following initiation of treatment. 

Uricosurics are ULTs that lower sUA by promoting the excretion of uric acid by the kidney. Lesinurad (Zurampic &#174; , AstraZeneca PLC) is a uricosuric that blocks URAT1, the main urate transporter/exchanger in renal proximal tubules. Zurampic 200mg in combination with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor was approved in the U.S. in 2015 and in the E.U. in 2016 for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout in patients that have not reached target serum uric acid levels with an XO inhibitor alone. The FDA approved Zurampic with a black-box warning regarding the potential for acute renal failure and the approved indication is restricted to its use in combination with an XO inhibitor. 

To address the increase in flare rate associated with initiation of ULT therapy, anti-inflammatory drugs such as colchicine and NSAIDs are co-prescribed with ULTs. These agents cause adverse effects. The risks associated with colchicine include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and neuromuscular toxicity. Long term use of colchicine should be carefully monitored. NSAIDs are associated with gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding that can be severe and life-threatening. Their long-term use is associated with an increased risk of renal toxicity, chronic renal insufficiency and increased cardiovascular morbidity. Steroids are also associated with GI bleedings. They can severely worsen hypertension and diabetes that are frequent comorbities of gout patients and their chronic use is associated with debilitating osteoporosis and bone fractures. 

Arhalofenate Has the Potential to Address the Unmet Needs in Gout 

We believe that a significant opportunity exists for arhalofenate as a result of its combined anti-flare activity and its sUA lowering activity. As an investigational Urate Lowering Anti-Flare Therapy (ULAFT), arhalofenate has the potential to address the unmet needs of gout patients by preventing flares while helping patients to achieve sUA target goals. This dual activity might also be advantageous when combining arhalofenate with febuxostat to increase the number of patients reaching their desired sUA targets, to limit the number of flares and, in patients with tophaceous gout, to potentially resolve tophi. 

Clinical Studies with Arhalofenate 

The Gout Development Program 

Arhalofenate is a prodrug which upon absorption is converted to its active form, arhalofenate acid. Arhalofenate acid&#146;s dual actions are to inhibit uric acid reabsorption by urate transporters in the kidney and to block the MSU crystal-stimulated production of IL-1&#223; by macrophages (white blood cells that play an important role in the body&#146;s defense against pathogens and foreign matter) in inflamed joints. 

Arhalofenate has been studied in five Phase 2 gout clinical studies. Collectively across these studies, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of arhalofenate in doses ranging from 400 mg &#150; 800 mg as monotherapy and in combination with the two approved XO inhibitors, allopurinol and febuxostat. The results of these studies collectively support further development of arhalofenate as a potential urate-lowering anti-flare therapy (ULAFT) for the large number of gout patients that are inadequate responders or are intolerant to XO inhibitors. 

Conclusions of Arhalofenate&#146;s Clinical Experience 

Arhalofenate has been studied in a total of 17 clinical studies with over 1,100 subjects in healthy volunteer, type 2 diabeticand gout populations. These include Phase 1 studies of safety, tolerability and PK, Phase 2 studies of blood glucose effects in diabetics, and Phase 2 studies of sUA and flare effects in gout patients. Arhalofenate was generally well tolerated with a safety profile that supports development for gout. 

In clinical studies conducted to date that included over two hundred patients with hyperuricemia and a diagnosis of gout, arhalofenate was found to be well tolerated when dosed at 400 mg, 600 mg or 800 mg once daily 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements up to twelve weeks. Arhalofenate treatment resulted in reductions in sUA whether administered alone or in combination with a XO inhibitor. As a uricosuric, arhalofenate decreases sUA by increasing the urinary excretion of uric acid. In clinical trials to date, Arhalofenate has increased the fractional excretion of uric acid with levels that were at or near normal without overcorrection. 

In addition, arhalofenate when administered at 800 mg daily without colchicine decreased the incidence of flares and also increased the proportion of patients not experiencing any flare. Activity against flares would address one of the most burdensome symptoms for gout patients. 

Phase 3 Gout Program 

In January 2016, we announced the completion of our End of Phase 2 discussions with the FDA for arhalofenate. We reached agreement with the FDA on all of the key elements of a Phase 3 program that would support registration. The program would include two Phase 3 studies of arhalofenate in combination with febuxostat in patients with chronic gout and a third study in tophaceous gout, a more advanced form of the disease in which patients have deforming nodular deposits of urate crystals in soft tissues and joints, referred to as tophi. In total, the agreed upon Phase 3 program would enroll approximately 1300 patients intended to receive treatment for at least 12 months. The dose of arhalofenate would be 800 mg in all three studies. For the two trials in chronic gout patients, the febuxostat dose would be 40 mg, while in the tophaceous gout study, it would be 80 mg. 

Agreement was reached on coprimary efficacy endpoints for the sUA and flare effects of arhalofenate. The sUA responder rates for a target of &#60;6 for patients with chronic gout and &#60;5 mg/dL for patients with tophaceous gout. These data could support an indication for the management of hyperuricemia associated with gout in combination with febuxostat. Patient reported flares would be collected with an electronic diary and assessed using the same flare definition successfully used in the Phase 2 program. These data could support an indication for flare prophylaxis. In addition, agreement was reached on the methodology to be used for assessing the resolution of tophi in patients with tophaceous gout. 

The goal of this program would be to establish clinically meaningful benefit on endpoints for both flare parameters and sUA responder rates. Studies in this program would be randomized, double-blind studies, with appropriate controls and statistical power. A small number of Phase 1 studies, including necessary drug-drug interaction studies, or special population studies, would also be conducted prior to submission of an NDA. 

MBX-2982 

Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is a chronic debilitating disease characterized by a progressive loss of the normal control of glucose levels in the blood and other tissues. There are several established and emerging classes of drug therapies for diabetes. Over the last decade, injectable drugs have emerged as competing drugs with significant benefits in glucose control as well as effects on weight loss and the potential to protect the pancreas from the damage caused by the progression of diabetes. These drugs are primarily analogs of the natural hormone glucagon-like 1 peptide (GLP-1), and include exenatide, liraglitide and lixisenatide among others. These drugs are given by subcutaneous injection once or twice daily. Their action is to provide glucose-regulated insulin secretion with weight loss and the potential to preserve function of pancreatic islets. New members of this class with once weekly to once monthly dose schedules have been approved or are in late stage development. In spite of the variety of drugs available for the treatment of diabetes, the medications used to manage diabetes have not led to optimal control of hyperglycemia and many are associated with dose-limiting side effects. MBX-2982 is an oral, G-protein coupled receptor (GPR119) agonist being evaluated as a novel therapeutic agent for patients with T2DM, with a dual mechanism including direct effects and indirect effects mediated by gastrointestinal hormones known as incretins on glucose-dependent insulin secretion, as well as potentially beneficial effects on islet health. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements GPR119 is expressed in pancreatic islet cells and gastrointestinal hormone secreting cells (enteroendocrine cells). Activation of GPR119 in pancreatic &#223;-islets either by natural (endogenous) substances or by drugs developed to interact with it (GPR119 agonists) results in direct stimulation of glucose-dependent insulin secretion in vitro . Activation of GPR119 in intestinal enteroendocrine cells either by endogenous substances or by GPR119 agonists results in stimulation of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and gastrointestinal inhibitory peptide release, and subsequent enhanced glucose-dependent insulin secretion and suppression of glucagon, leading to improved acute glucose tolerance, both in vitro and in vivo . MBX-2982 was synthesized and screened as a GPR119 agonist, and is capable of activating endogenous GPR119 in a cell line over-expressing the receptor. MBX-2982 has been shown to increase glucose-dependent insulin secretion in both in vitro and in animal models. MBX-2982 also increases incretin hormone levels in animals, which may contribute to its glucose lowering effects. 

Nonclinical studies show that MBX-2982 has desirable effects on blood glucose levels, and this effect is additive to the effect of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, sitagliptin. Based on these results, there may be an important role for MBX-2982 as a novel therapeutic agent in the treatment of T2DM, alone or in combination with other anti-diabetic agents, including the DPP-4 inhibitors. Presently, there are no other agents approved in the U.S. within this pharmacologic class for the treatment of T2DM. 

Extensive preclinical toxicological (up to 6 months in rats and dogs) have been completed, and PK profiling of MBX-2982 has shown low potential for safety risk. We filed an IND for MBX-2982 with the FDA in January 2008. 

Clinical Studies with MBX-2982 

Four Phase 1 clinical studies and one Phase 2 clinical study with MBX-2982 have been completed and the safety review showed no safety or tolerability concerns with escalating doses (25, 100, and 300 mg/day) tested for up to 4 weeks of dosing. The four-week study in type 2 diabetics can be summarized as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; MBX-2982 generally lowered mean weighted glucose and post-meal glucose during an extended mixed-meal tolerance test (MMTT), although not always to a statistically significant degree and not to the extent of sitagliptin. The effect at the 300 mg dose may have been mitigated by the inclusion of a very small number of patients who experienced extreme worsening of glucose to the degree of being statistical outliers. Decreases in fasting glucose were generally not observed with MBX-2982. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Four weeks of treatment with MBX-2982 tended to increase insulin, active GLP-1, and total GLP-1 during an extended MMTT. Decreases in glucagon were not as consistently observed. Changes in active GLP-1 were not as robust as those observed with sitagliptin. Four weeks of treatment with MBX-2982 also tended to increase fasting insulin and c-peptide, and decrease fasting triglycerides. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Overall, the data suggest that MBX-2982 may decrease glucose, potentially through effects on GLP-1, glucagon, and insulin. Changes in HbA1c are difficult to assess over a 4-week treatment period, but trended in the downward direction. Glucose-lowering effects and mechanism of action will need to be explored more robustly in longer duration trials of MBX-2982. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The PK results observed in this study are similar to those seen in the completed Phase 1 study that used the same formulation, demonstrating dose-dependent increases in drug exposure and a profile supporting once daily oral dosing. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; MBX-2982 at doses of 25, 100, and 300 mg was safe and well tolerated. Based on these results, we believe further testing with MBX-2982 in combination with sitagliptin and/or metformin for the treatment of diabetes is warranted. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Next Steps in Development of MBX-2982 

A proof-of-concept study has been designed to determine the effects of MBX-2982 on fasting and post-challenge blood glucose in patients with T2DM either as dual therapy in combination with either metformin or sitagliptin, or as triple therapy in combination with metformin and sitagliptin. 

We do not anticipate conducting this study until a suitable partner is found to contribute funding or resources for the project, or until sometime in the future when we have sufficient capital resources. 

License Agreements and Intellectual Property 

General 

We actively seek to obtain, where appropriate, patent protection and regulatory exclusivity for the proprietary technology that we consider important to our business, including compounds, compositions and formulations, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture both in the United States and other countries. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing to develop and maintain our proprietary position. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce proprietary protection for our product candidates, technology and know&#150;how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, and to exclude others from infringing our proprietary rights. However, patent protection may not afford us complete protection against competitors who seek to circumvent our patents. 

We also depend upon the skills, knowledge, experience and know-how of our management, research and development personnel, as well as that of our advisors, consultants and other contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how, which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, we currently rely, and will in the future rely, on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. 

Collaborations and Licensing Agreements 

We have entered into various arrangements with licensors and licensees. The current collaborations are summarized below. 

Johnson and Johnson: In June 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutical NV (Janssen NV) in which we received an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to MBX-8025 and certain other PPAR&#100; compounds (the &#147;PPAR&#100; Products&#148;) with the right to grant sublicenses to third parties to make, use and sell such PPAR&#100; Products. Under the terms of the agreement, we have full control and responsibility over the research, development and registration of any PPAR&#100; Products and are required to use diligent efforts to conduct all such activities. Janssen NV has the sole responsibility for the preparation, filing, prosecution, maintenance of, and defense of the patents with respect to, the PPAR&#100; Products. Janssen NV has a right of first negotiation under the agreement to license a particular PPAR&#100; Product from us in the event that we elect to seek a third party corporate partner for the research, development, promotion, and/or commercialization of such PPAR&#100; Products. Under the terms of the agreement Janssen NV is entitled to receive up to an 8% royalty on net sales of PPAR&#100; Products. Under the terms of the agreement, if we do not expend more than a de minimus amount of effort and resources on the research and/or development of at least one PPAR&#100; product, such action would constitute a default under the agreement. In addition, if we fail to make any payment called for under the agreement, disclose any non-exempt confidential information related to the agreement, or fail to use diligent efforts to promote, market and sell any PPAR&#100; Product under the agreement, such action would constitute a default under the agreement. In the event of such default, or upon our termination of the agreement, we shall grant Janssen NV a worldwide, exclusive, irrevocable license under the agreement in all information that is controlled, developed or 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements acquired by us which relate to a PPAR&#100; compound or PPAR&#100; Product and in all patents that are filed during the term of the agreement with a priority date after the effective date of the agreement and relate to a PPAR&#100; compound or PPAR&#100; Product. 

In June 2010, we entered into two development and license agreements with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Janssen) to further develop and discover undisclosed metabolic disease target agonists for the treatment of T2DM and other disorders and received a one-time nonrefundable technology access fee related to the agreements. We are also eligible to receive up to $228 million in contingent payments if certain development and commercial events are achieved as well as royalties on worldwide net sales of products. No such payments have been made to date. Under the terms of the agreements, Janssen has full control and responsibility over the research, development and registration of any products developed and/or discovered from the metabolic disease targets and is required to use diligent efforts to conduct all such activities. A joint steering committee with equal representation from each party will oversee the development of products. Following June 2012, all decisions of the joint steering committee are to be made by Janssen. We have the sole responsibility for the preparation, filing, prosecution, maintenance of, and defense of our patents with respect to metabolic disease target agonists. Under the terms of the agreements, if we disclose any non-exempt confidential information related to the agreements, such action would constitute a default under the agreements. In addition, if we breach any of our representations or warranties under the agreements, such action would constitute a default. In the event of a default, the agreements do not provide that we will lose any of our rights to the intellectual property developed under the agreement. We received a termination notice from Janssen, effectively ending these development and licensing agreements in early April 2015. In December 2015, we exercised an option pursuant to the terms of one of the original agreements to continue work to research, develop and commercialize compounds with activity against an undisclosed metabolic disease target. Janssen granted us an exclusive, worldwide license (with rights to sublicense) under the Janssen know-how and patents to research, develop, make, have made, import, use, offer for sale and sell such compounds. We have full control and responsibility over the research, development and registration of any products developed and/or discovered from the metabolic disease target and are required to use diligent efforts to conduct all such activities. 

DiaTex: On June 30, 1998, we entered into a License and Development Agreement with DiaTex, Inc. Under the agreement, DiaTex granted us an exclusive license to develop and commercialize therapeutic products containing halofenate, its enantiomers (mirror images, including arhalofenate), derivatives, and analogs (the licensed products) for the treatment of diseases. Under terms of the agreement, DiaTex will work cooperatively and assist us in conducting a program for the research and development of halofenate and its enantiomers including the right to sublicense, to use and to practice all patents controlled by DiaTex that claim halofenate and its enantiomers, and all information, data, know-how, trade secrets, inventions, developments, results, techniques and materials, whether or not patentable, that are necessary or useful towards such commercialization. Under the agreement, we are obligated to use diligent efforts to conduct preclinical and clinical testing of halofenate and its enantiomers in order to determine its efficacy for use in the treatment or prevention of human diseases or conditions. On April 15, 1999 the agreement was amended by the parties to allow DiaTex to transfer to us their interest in an IND application that they filed with the FDA. The amendment also provided for DiaTex to indemnify us against any and all losses resulting or arising from any third party claims, actions or proceedings under the IND application, any negligent or wrongful acts or omissions of DiaTex in connection with the IND application, and any misrepresentations by DiaTex relating to the license agreement. Under the amendment, we will provide the same indemnifications to DiaTex with respect to any third party claims, actions, or proceedings in connection with negligent or wrongful conduct of clinical trials relating to the license agreement, provided the claims are not related to negligent or wrongful acts or omissions committed by DiaTex. 

The license agreement contains a $2,000 per month license fee as well as a requirement to make additional payments for development achievements and royalty payments on any sales of licensed products. DiaTex is entitled to up to $0.8 million for the future development of arhalofenate, as well as a 2% royalty payment on any net sales of products containing arhalofenate. A $50,000 milestone payment was made in May 2005 but no other milestone or royalty payments have been made since then. The agreement will expire upon the expiration of the 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements last of DiaTex&#146;s patents related to the license granted, or, if later, the expiration of all payment obligations under the agreement. The agreement may also terminate upon a material breach by DiaTex or us, if written notice of such breach is delivered to the breaching party, and the breaching party has not (i) cured the breach or (ii) initiated good faith efforts to cure the breach within a specified time period. Under the terms of the agreement, if we fail to use diligent efforts to conduct preclinical and clinical testing of halofenate and its enantiomers to determine its efficacy for use in the treatment or prevention of human diseases or conditions, fail to make any payment called for under the agreement, or disclose non-exempt confidential information under the agreement, such action would constitute a material breach under the agreement. In addition, if we fail to execute all instruments and assignments or fail to take any action to effect joint ownership of any enantiomer patent with DiaTex, such action would constitute a material breach under the agreement. We may terminate the agreement at any time if we determine we are no longer interested in DiaTex&#146;s license grant, provided we provide sufficient written notice within a specified time period. 

Research and Development Agreements 

INC Research: In February 2014, we entered into a Master Services Agreement with INC Research, LLC and related initial work order for INC Research to provide contract clinical research and development services to us in connection with our Phase 2b study of arhalofenate in gout. The Agreement provides that we may engage INC Research from time to time to provide services in accordance with work orders mutually agreed and budgeted between the parties for clinical research and development of arhalofenate which total is anticipated to exceed approximately $8 million. The master services agreement provides customary terms and conditions, including those for performance of services by INC Research in compliance with work orders, standard operating procedures, FDA and ICH requirements and all applicable laws. We remain responsible for all regulatory responsibilities and the determination of any work orders, subject to mutual agreement on the specific terms of any such work orders. The master services agreement has a term of five years; provided that we may terminate the master services agreement or any individual work order on thirty (30) days written notice, or immediately in the event of any safety risk associated with the services the being performed. In addition, either party may terminate the master services agreement or any applicable work order upon thirty (30) days written notice for a material breach by the other party. 

Pharmaceutical Research Associates, Inc.: In September 2015, we entered into a Master Services Agreement with Pharmaceutical Research Associates, Inc (PRA) and related initial work order for PRA to provide contract clinical research and development services to us in connection with our Phase 2 study of MBX-8025 in PBC. Under this agreement, we may engage PRA from time to time in accordance with mutually agreed work orders. The initial work order includes services for our clinical candidate, MBX-8025, and the total cost under such initial work order are anticipated to be approximately $6.2 million. The agreement provides for performance of services by PRA in compliance with work orders, industry standards, FDA and ICH requirements and all applicable laws. We remain responsible for all regulatory responsibilities unless specifically transferred to PRA, as well as the determination of any work orders, subject to mutual agreement on the specific terms of any such work orders. The agreement has a term of five years, and we can terminate the agreement or any individual work order upon thirty (30) days written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement or any applicable work order upon thirty (30) days written notice for an uncured material breach by the other party, or immediately in the event of the other party&#146;s bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or assignment for the benefit of creditors. 

Intellectual Property 

We own and co-own approximately 46 United States patents, 175 foreign patents, as well as 19 United States patent applications and 115 foreign and Patent Cooperation Treaty applications which are counterparts to certain United States patents and patent applications. In addition, we license from third parties approximately 17 United States patents and 2 United States patent application, 304 foreign patents and 68 foreign and Patent Cooperation Treaty applications which are counterparts to certain United States patents and patent applications. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements These patents and patent applications include claims covering various aspects of our product pipeline and research and development strategies, including: arhalofenate crystal forms, methods of use both alone and in combination with other drugs and methods of manufacture, certain PPAR delta agonists, their compositions and uses, certain GPR119 agonist compositions and uses and undisclosed metabolic disease target agonist compositions and uses. 

The arhalofenate portfolio consists of approximately 141 issued patents and 103 pending patent applications relating to composition, method of use or methods of manufacture. We believe our issued patents protect Arhalofenate through at least 2019-2032 before accounting for any potential patent term extension. The MBX-8025 portfolio consists of approximately 325 issued patents and 67 pending patent applications related to composition and method of use that we believe protect it through at least 2024-2026 before accounting for any potential patent term extension. Patent and trade secret protection is critical to our business. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain, maintain, defend and enforce patents and other intellectual property to extend the life of patents covering our product candidates, to preserve trade secrets and proprietary know-how, and to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties we actively seek patent protection in the U.S. 

Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production or testing of MBX-8025, arhalofenate or other product candidates that we develop, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. We presently depend on third party contract manufacturers to obtain all of our required raw materials, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and finished products for our clinical studies for arhalofenate. We have executed manufacturing agreements for our API and clinical supplies of arhalofenate and MBX-8025 with established manufacturing firms which are responsible for sourcing and obtaining the raw materials necessary for the finished products. The raw materials necessary to manufacture the API for arhalofenate, MBX-8025 and MBX-2982 are available from more than one source and we have also executed manufacturing agreements for the production of MBX-2982. 

Siegfried AG 

On April 30, 2012, we entered into a Development and Clinical Manufacture Agreement with Siegfried AG for the manufacturing of the API necessary for the tablet form of arhalofenate. Under the agreement, we shall deliver or Siegfried shall obtain the raw materials necessary for the API. We own the rights, title and interest to the deliverables and intellectual property covering the deliverables generated under the agreement. Siegfried shall grant a non-exclusive license to us to use Siegfried intellectual property to exploit any product or service based or derived from the deliverables under the agreement. Both Siegfried and we have agreed to indemnify the other party with respect to losses due to the breach of a covenant or obligation under the agreement or the gross negligence, recklessness or intentional misconduct of the other party. We may terminate the agreement at any time with written notice and Siegfried may terminate the agreement in the event we discontinue our activities related to the development or commercialization of the API for arhalofenate. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement at any time for material breach under the agreement or in the case of insolvency of the other party. 

Patheon Inc. 

On June 5, 2012, we entered into a Development and Clinical Manufacture Agreement with Patheon Inc. for the manufacturing of the tablet form of arhalofenate. Under the agreement, we shall deliver the API or Patheon shall obtain the API from a qualified vendor. We own the rights, title and interest to the deliverables and intellectual property generated by Patheon in connection with the performance of the services for us under the agreement. Both Patheon and we have agreed to indemnify the other party with respect to losses due to the breach of a covenant or obligation under the agreement or the gross negligence, recklessness or intentional 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements misconduct of the other party. We may terminate the agreement at any time with written notice provided that we terminate the agreement within certain times in advance of the start date of certain services. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement at any time for material breach under the agreement. 

Metrics Inc. 

On October 31, 2006, we entered into a Standard Development Agreement with Metrics, Inc. Under the agreement, Metrics will provide us with pharmaceutical development, formulation and analytical services in consideration of which we will provide appropriate compensation as outlined in the agreement. We own the rights, title and interest to the intellectual property relating to all pharmaceutical products developed or manufactured for us by Metrics, as well as any active pharmaceutical ingredient provided to Metrics by us. We have agreed to indemnify Metrics against third party claims that involve the breach by us of any of our obligations, warranties or representations under the agreement, and Metrics has agreed to indemnify us against third party claims that involve (i) the negligence, gross negligence, or intentional misconduct on the part of Metrics, (ii) a failure by Metrics to comply with the law in their performance of the agreement, or (iii) a breach of Metrics&#146; obligations, covenants, representations, or warranties under the agreement. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time with advance written notice. 

Research &#38; Development Costs 

Our research and development costs for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $17.0 million and $15.8 million, respectively. 

Government Regulation and Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. The pharmaceutical drug product candidates that we develop must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) before they may be legally marketed in the United States. 

United States Pharmaceutical Product Development Process 

In the United States, the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and implementing regulations. Pharmaceutical products are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process required by the FDA before a pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) or other applicable regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (IND), which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin; &#160;

Index to Financial Statements &#160; &#149; &#160; Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies according to the FDA&#146;s current Good Clinical Practices (GCP), to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed pharmaceutical product for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application (NDA) for a new pharmaceutical product; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the pharmaceutical product is produced to assess compliance with the FDA&#146;s current Good Manufacturing Practice standards (cGMP), to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the pharmaceutical product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Potential FDA audit of selected preclinical and clinical study sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. The lengthy process of seeking required approvals and the continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources and approvals are inherently uncertain. 

Before testing any compounds with potential therapeutic value in humans, the pharmaceutical product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the pharmaceutical product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including Good Laboratory Practices. The sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA has concerns and notifies the sponsor by way of a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical study can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a pharmaceutical product candidate at any time before or during clinical studies due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical studies to begin and, once begun, issues may arise that lead to suspension or termination of such clinical study. 

During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given opportunities to meet with the FDA at certain points. These points may be prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2, and before an NDA is submitted. Meetings at other times may be requested. These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. Sponsors typically use the End-of-Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial that they believe will support approval of the new drug. 

Clinical studies involve the administration of the pharmaceutical product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the clinical study sponsor&#146;s control. Clinical studies are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical study, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, how the results will be analyzed and presented and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical studies must be conducted in accordance with GCP. Further, each clinical study must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board (IRB) at, or servicing, each institution at which the clinical study will be conducted. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of study participants and considers such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical studies are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical study subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical study until completed. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Human clinical studies are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1. The pharmaceutical product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2. The pharmaceutical product is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases, to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule and to identify patient populations with specific characteristics where the pharmaceutical product may be more effective. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3. Clinical studies are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These clinical studies are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. The studies must be well-controlled and usually include a control arm for comparison. One or two Phase 3 studies are required by the FDA for an NDA approval, depending on the disease severity and other available treatment options. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Post-approval studies, or Phase 4 clinical studies, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical studies must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events or any finding from tests in laboratory animals that suggests a significant risk for human subjects. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board may suspend a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the pharmaceutical product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Concurrent with clinical studies, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the pharmaceutical product as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the pharmaceutical product candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final pharmaceutical product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the pharmaceutical product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

United States Review and Approval Processes 

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the pharmaceutical product, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of substantial user fees; a waiver of such fees may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA), an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the pharmaceutical product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any pharmaceutical product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), the FDA has 10 months from filing in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months from filing for a priority NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or if the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the last three months before the PDUFA goal date. 

After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the NDA application to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel pharmaceutical products or pharmaceutical products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the pharmaceutical product approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) is necessary to assure the safe use of the pharmaceutical product. If the FDA concludes that a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the NDA without a REMS, if required. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites as well as the site where the pharmaceutical product is manufactured to assure compliance with GCP and cGMP. If the FDA determines the application, manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. In addition, the FDA will require the review and approval of product labeling. 

The NDA review and approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical studies are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA. The complete response letter describes the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical studies. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 testing which involves clinical studies designed to further assess pharmaceutical product safety and effectiveness and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Post-Approval Requirements 

Any pharmaceutical products for which we receive FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements, which include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, prohibitions on promoting pharmaceutical products for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the pharmaceutical product&#146;s approved labeling (known as &#147;off-label use&#148;), industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can have negative consequences, including adverse publicity, enforcement letters from the FDA, actions by the United States Department of Justice and/or United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, and civil or criminal penalties. Although physicians may prescribe legally available pharmaceutical products for off-label uses, manufacturers may not directly or indirectly market or promote such off-label uses. 

Manufacturers of our products are required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing requirements contained in the FDA&#146;s cGMP regulations. cGMP regulations require, among other things, quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Pharmaceutical product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved pharmaceutical products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, risk minimization action plans and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. 

U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits certain individuals and entities, including us, from promising, paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, directly or indirectly, to obtain or retain business or an improper advantage. The U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have increased their enforcement efforts with respect to the FCPA. Violations of the FCPA may result in large civil and criminal penalties and could result in an adverse effect on a company&#146;s reputation, operations, and financial condition. A company may also face collateral consequences such as debarment and the loss of export privileges. 

Federal and state fraud and abuse laws 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal healthcare laws have been applied to restrict certain business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes, false claims statutes, data privacy and security laws, as well as transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed healthcare programs. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements value, including for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payment, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for statutory exemptions or safe harbor protection. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Several courts have interpreted the statute&#146;s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The intent standard of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the PPACA, so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below). 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies&#146; marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Additionally, the civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. 

The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, created under the PPACA, and its implementing regulations, require certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually information related to certain payments or other transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. 

We may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA&#146;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to &#147;business associates&#148;&#151;independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the aforementioned federal fraud and abuse laws, some of which are broader in scope and apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Further, some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments or other transfers of value provided to physicians and other health care providers and entities or marketing expenditures. 

These federal and state laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including criminal and significant civil monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate its business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our product candidates are ultimately sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of the use of our pharmaceutical product candidates, some of our patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved pharmaceutical product is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we may apply for restoration of patent term for one of its currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending upon the expected length of the clinical studies and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA. 

Market exclusivity provisions under the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act can also delay the submission or the approval of certain applications of other companies seeking to reference another company&#146;s NDA. Currently seven years of reference product exclusivity are available to pharmaceutical products designated as Orphan Drugs, during which the FDA may not approve generic products relying upon the reference product&#146;s data. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent term, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric clinical study in accordance with an FDA-issued &#147;Written Request&#148; for such a clinical study. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any pharmaceutical product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government payors such as 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for products exists among third-party payors. While commercial payors often follow Medicare cover policy and payment limitations, coverage and reimbursement for products can differ significantly from payor to payor. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the pharmaceutical product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific pharmaceutical products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved pharmaceutical products for a particular indication. 

Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of its products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Our pharmaceutical product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In addition, in the United States there is a growing emphasis on comparative effectiveness research, both by private payors and by government agencies. To the extent other drugs or therapies are found to be more effective than our products, payors may elect to cover such therapies in lieu of our products and/or reimburse our products at a lower rate. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. 

The marketability of any pharmaceutical product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect this will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

In the United States and foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our future results of operations. In particular, there have been and continue to be a number of initiatives at the United States federal and state levels that seek to reduce healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010 the PPACA was enacted, which includes measures to significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of the PPACA of importance to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry are the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; extension of manufacturers&#146; Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; &#160;

Index to Financial Statements &#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers&#146; Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; new transparency reporting requirements under the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, created under Section 6002 of the PPACA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Since its enactment there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and we expect there will continue to be additional challenges and amendments to it in the future. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. In August 2011, the president signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, or joint committee, to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The joint committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the president signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. More recently, there have been several recent congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations. 

International Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, there are a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our future product candidates. Whether or not FDA approval is obtained for a product, approval of a product must be obtained by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before clinical studies or marketing of the product can commence in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In addition, certain regulatory authorities in select countries 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements may require us to repeat previously conducted preclinical and/or clinical studies under specific criteria for approval in their respective country which may delay and/or greatly increase the cost of approval in certain markets targeted for approval by us. 

Corporate Information 

CymaBay Therapeutics, Inc., formerly Metabolex, Inc., was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 5, 1988, originally under the name Transtech Corporation. Our executive offices are located at 7999 Gateway Blvd., Suite 130, Newark, CA 94560. The telephone number at our executive office is (510) 293-8800. Our corporate website address is www.cymabay.com. We do not incorporate the information contained on, or accessible through, our website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider it part of this Annual Report. All of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. 

Implications of Being an &#147;Emerging Growth Company&#148; 

We qualify as an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. As an &#147;emerging growth company,&#148; we may take advantage of specified reduced disclosure and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; only two years of audited financial statements in addition to any required unaudited interim financial statements with correspondingly reduced &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; disclosure; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; reduced disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; no requirement that we solicit non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; exemption from the auditor attestation requirement in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken advantage of the reduced disclosure obligations. Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can elect to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourself of this exemption to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. 

We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we becomes a &#147;large accelerated filer&#148; as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period and (iv) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act (a date which occurred in July 2014). At this time we expect to remain an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; for the foreseeable future. 

We also qualify as a &#147;smaller reporting company&#148; and have the advantage of not being required to provide the same level of disclosure as larger public companies. 

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, we had 21 full-time employees, 7 of whom hold Ph.D.s, 2 of whom hold M.D.s and 3 of whom hold a Masters degree in relevant areas of expertise. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Executive Officers of Registrant 

As of March 1, 2016, our executive officers, who are appointed by and serve at the discretion of the board of directors, were as follows: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; &#160; Position Held With CymaBay 

Executive Officers 

&#160; &#160; Harold Van Wart, Ph.D.

&#160; &#160; 68 &#160; &#160; President, Chief Executive Officer &#38; Director Sujal Shah

&#160; &#160; 42 &#160; &#160; Chief Financial Officer Pol Boudes, M.D.

&#160; &#160; 58 &#160; &#160; Chief Medical Officer Robert L. Martin, Ph.D.

&#160; &#160; 53 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Nonclinical Development Charles A. McWherter, Ph.D.

&#160; &#160; 60 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer Patrick J. O&#146;Mara

&#160; &#160; 54 &#160; &#160; Vice President, Business Development Kirk Rosemark

&#160; &#160; 51 &#160; &#160; Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Biographical Information 

Executive Officers 

Harold E. Van Wart, Ph.D. has served as CymaBay&#146;s President since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer and member of its board of directors since 2003. He served as Chief Operating Officer from December 2002 to January 2003 and Senior Vice President, Research and Development from October 2000 to December 2002. From 1999 to 2000, Dr. Van Wart was vice president and therapy area head for arthritis and fibrotic diseases at Roche Biosciences, a biopharmaceutical company. From 1992 to 1999, he was vice president and director of the institute of biochemistry and cell biology at Syntex Corporation, a biopharmaceutical company acquired by Roche Biosciences in 1994. From 1978 to 1992, Dr. Van Wart served on the faculty of Florida State University. Dr. Van Wart holds a Ph.D. from Cornell University and a B.A. from SUNY Binghamton. Dr. Van Wart has been a member of the board of directors of Conatus Pharmaceuticals since 2007. He currently also serves on the Emerging Companies and Health Section Governing Boards of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), as well as on its board of directors, and on the board of directors and executive committee at BayBio. 

Sujal Shah has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December of 2013. Prior to that he served as a consultant and acting Chief Financial Officer for us from June 2012 to December 2013. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Shah served as Director, Health Care Investment Banking for Citigroup Inc., where he was responsible for managing client relationships and executing strategic and financing related transactions for clients focused in life sciences. From 2004 to 2010 Mr. Shah was employed with Credit-Suisse, last serving in the capacity as Vice President, Health Care Investment Banking Group. Mr. Shah received a MBA from Carnegie Mellon University &#150; Tepper School of Business and M.S. and B.S. degrees in Biomedical Engineering from Northwestern University. 

Pol Boudes, M.D. has served as our Chief Medical Officer since April 2014. Prior to joining CymaBay, Dr. Boudes was Chief Medical Officer at Amicus Therapeutics, from 2009 to 2013 where he was responsible for clinical development, pharmacology, medical affairs, regulatory affairs and quality assurance, and toxicology. From 2004 to 2009, Dr. Boudes was with Berlex Laboratories (which merged with Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals in 2006) where Dr. Boudes held the position of Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Women&#146;s, Health Care US. From 1990 to 2004, he held positions of increasing responsibility with Wyeth-Ayerst Research both in Philadelphia, PA and in Europe, with Hoffmann-La Roche, and with Pasteur-Merieux Serums &#38; Vaccines. Dr. Boudes received his M.D. from the University of Aix-Marseilles, France. He completed his internship and residency in Marseilles and in Paris, France and was an Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Paris. He is specialized in Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, Internal Medicine, and Geriatric diseases. 

&#160;

Index to Financial Statements Robert L. Martin, Ph.D., has served as our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Nonclinical Development since April 2015. Previously, he served as our Vice President of Nonclinical Development and Project Management from 2008 to 2015. Dr. Martin served as our Sr. Director of Preclinical Development and Project Management from 2006 to 2008 and our Director of Preclinical Development and Project Management from 2004 to 2006. From 1994 to 2004, Dr. Martin served in various positions with Roche Palo Alto, a division of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. Dr. Martin obtained his Ph.D. in Biochemistry from the University of California, Davis. 

Charles A. McWherter, Ph.D. has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer since July 2007. From 2003 to 2007, he served as Vice President and head of the cardiovascular therapeutics areas of Pfizer Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. From 2001 to 2003, Dr. McWherter served as Vice President of Drug Discovery at Sugen, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company acquired by Pfizer Inc. in 2003. Dr. McWherter obtained his Ph.D. from Cornell University. 

Patrick O&#146;Mara has served as our Vice President, Business Development since August 2006. Previously he served as our Sr. Director of Business Development from 2004 to 2006, our Director of Business Development from 2000 to 2004 and our Manager of Business Development from 1997 to 2000. Mr. O&#146;Mara served as our Manager of Laboratory Operations from 1991 to 1997. Mr. O&#146;Mara received a B.A. in Biochemistry from the University of California, Berkeley. 

Kirk Rosemark has served as our Vice President Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance since April 2015. Prior to joining CymaBay Mr. Rosemark held the position of Vice President Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance at Exelixis, Inc. from 2003 to 2014, where he was responsible for all regulatory affairs and quality assurance functions supporting both development and marketed products. He served in the same capacity at NeoPharm Inc from 2001 to 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Rosemark held various positions of increasing responsibility within the Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance department at Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ciba Vision and Bausch &#38; Lomb Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mr. Rosemark obtained a B.S. in Chemistry from Cleveland State University. 

