 Item 1. Description of Business

General

Cannabis Sativa, Inc., formerly named Ultra Sun Corporation was incorporated under laws of Nevada in November, 2005. We conduct some of our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiary Wild Earth Naturals, Inc., also a Nevada corporation. Unless otherwise indicated, Cannabis Sativa, Inc., and Wild Earth Naturals, Inc. is referred to jointly herein as "we," "us," the "Company," or the "Registrant."

Corporate History

We were incorporated under the laws of Nevada in November 2005. We acquired a wholly-owned subsidiary named Kush, a Nevada corporation, in June 2014 in exchange for shares of our common stock. Since then, Kush has been spun off and is no longer a subsidiary of the Company. Our wholly-owned subsidiary Wild Earth Naturals, Inc. ("Wild Earth") was acquired by us in July 2013 in exchange for shares of our common stock. From our inception through September 30, 2013 we were engaged in the tanning salon business and operated a tanning salon in Saratoga Springs, Utah under the name "Sahara Sun Tanning." As a result of our acquisition of Wild Earth in July 2013, we became engaged in the herbal skin care products business. On September 30, 2013 we sold the assets of the tanning salon business to a third party.

Our Business

We are engaged in the research, development and licensing of specialized natural cannabis products, including cannabis formulas, edibles, topicals, strains, recipes and delivery systems. We plan to develop, produce and market products via joint ventures with companies licensed under, and in full compliance with, state regulations applicable to cannabis businesses. We hold the license for a medicinal cannabis strain called NZT; a proprietary cannabis lozenge delivery methodology and a proprietary cannabis trauma cream formula. We hold the rights to patent applications filed in March and April 2010 with regard to a strain of cannabis plant named CTS-A, cannabis based compositions and methods of treating hypertension, and a lozenge delivery system. We are also developing a third proprietary strain of cannabis plant named CT22.

Perceived Cannabis Industry Trends

We believe the cannabis industry will be characterized by the following principal trends: an increased emphasis on high quality products; an increased emphasis on scientific validation for products in the market place; more liberal regulation in regard to cannabis; more consolidation, take-over, and buy-out of companies in the retail, wholesale (including MLM), and supply side channels; more mainstream companies entering the marketplace; and more funded research on the potential long-term health benefits of cannabis as well as its potential curative properties.

Vision

Our vision is to become a highly visible, diversified, international business promoting superior quality products and offering effective customer service, fair compensation, sound management and a great working environment. Over time we plan to expand our licensing, research and development, intellectual properties and licensing activities to reach markets worldwide. In order to achieve this vision, our goal is to provide cost-effective alternatives to our customers who seek quality, affordable natural health products to aid in wellness and appearance. In conducting our day-to-day operations, we will strive to:

&#8226; &#160; Treat all colleagues and co-workers with respect &#38; fairness. 

&#8226; &#160; Follow a philosophy that says, "Delivering quality and customer satisfaction is our business." 

&#8226; &#160; Make positive contributions to the communities with which it does business and the community in which it conducts business. 

&#8226; &#160; Develop and enhance the skills of its associates with the intention of providing financially rewarding business opportunities. 

Through a long-term commitment to this vision statement, we hope to become known as a company that is committed to its customers, associates, and communities. The profits, in part, will be derived from the intangible benefits received from making a positive impact through charitable donations toward the promotion of wellness and natural product alternatives for health care.

Proposed Products

We currently have the following proprietary cannabis strains and proprietary delivery systems available as part of our asset base.

&#8226; &#160; Proprietary cannabis sativa plant strain known as NZT. 

&#8226; &#160; Proprietary recipe and process/method to maximize the cannabinoid concentration derived from the NZT strain to be used to make a medical marijuana edible or to make a medical marijuana lozenge. We believe that unlike the other edibles of which we are aware that take an hour or more to take effect, our lozenges will take effect in five to 15 minutes. We believe this rapid acting characteristic will overcome a major issue with cannabis consumption, which has been the need to inhale cannabis in order to receive a rapid response. 

&#8226; &#160; Proprietary recipe and process/method to maximize the cannabinoid concentration derived from the proprietary strain to be used to make a salve/ointment containing cannabinoid and other herbal ingredients. 

In addition, we have added another proprietary cannabis sativa strain designated "CT3," which we believe will be more potent than the other strains. We also have the rights to develop a proprietary cannabis strain, designated "CTA".

Our current strategy is to continue prosecution of the pending patents and to treat new developments as proprietary trade secrets. For the trade secret properties, we will keep the genetic information secured in a safe place and only designated persons will have access to the information.

Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

We plan for initial manufacturing, production and quality control operations for our cannabis products to be done via third party licensees and joint venture partners that are licensed by individual states. We anticipate that the production processes of our licensees and joint venture partners will include the following activities: identifying and evaluating suppliers of raw materials, acquiring raw materials, analyzing raw material quality, weighing or otherwise measuring raw materials, mixing raw materials into batches, packaging finished products, and analyzing finished product quality. They will conduct sample testing of raw materials, in-process materials, and finished products for purity, potency, and composition to determine whether the products conform to our internal specifications, and they will be required to maintain complete documentation for each of these tests. They will employ a qualified staff of professionals to develop, implement, and maintain a quality system designed to assure that our licensed products are manufactured to our specifications.

We will attempt to conduct our operations so as to comply with local, state and Federal regulations thus providing our customers with the assurance and confidence of quality and safe to use products.

Marketing

We plan to initially develop our customer base through licensing and joint venture agreements with third parties licensed in the states in which they conduct business. We anticipate that we will later expand our marketing efforts via web marketing, if and to the extent such marketing activities are permitted by applicable law.

Research and Development

We plan to continue to conduct research and development activities with an initial focus on the following:

&#8226; &#160; Identify and research new strains of cannabis and combinations of cannabis and cannabinoid nutrients that may be candidates for new products; 

&#8226; &#160; Introduce new herbal ingredients for use in supplements; 

&#8226; &#160; Study the metabolic activities of existing and newly identified ingredients; 

&#8226; &#160; Enhance existing products, as new discoveries in cannabis are made; 

&#8226; &#160; Formulate products to meet diverse regulatory requirements across all of its markets; 

&#8226; &#160; Investigate processes for improving the production of its formulated products; and 

&#8226; &#160; Investigate activities of natural extracts and formulated products in laboratory and clinical settings. 

It is through our internal research and development efforts and our relationships with outside research organizations and health care providers that we believe we will be able to provide high quality cannabis products. We plan for our research and development activities to include developing products that are new to the industry, updating existing formulas to keep them current with the latest science, and adapting existing formulas to meet ever-changing regulations in new and existing domestic and international markets. We will select our ingredients to meet a number of criteria, including, but not limited to: safety, potency, purity, stability, bio-availability, and efficacy. We will require our licensees and joint venture partners to control the quality of our products beginning at the formulation stage, and maintain quality control through controlled sourcing of raw ingredients, manufacturing, packaging, and labeling. Going forward, we intend to increase our spending and resources for research and development.

Intellectual Property

We hold certain intellectual property (the "IP") consisting of the right to cultivate and grow a proprietary cannabis sativa plant strain known as NZT and also known as the CTK strain (the "NZT strain"), which contains CBG. We also hold rights to a proprietary recipe and process/method to maximize the cannabinoid concentrations derived from the proprietary cannabis sativa plant NZT strain (or other available strain obtained from other sources) to be used to make a medical marijuana ("MMJ") edible or to make a MMJ lozenge. We also hold rights to a proprietary recipe and process/method to maximize the cannabinoid concentrations derived from the proprietary cannabis plant NZT strain (or other available strain obtained from other sources) to be used to make a salve/ointment containing CBD and Arnica Montana. Kush, our former subsidiary, has a non-assignable right to the same IP.

We also hold the rights to three patent applications filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office with regard to the CTA strain, its use in a lozenge and as a treatment for hypertension. To date, none of the applications has been granted and no patents have issued. We are continuing to pursue the applications; however, no assurances can be given that any of the patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent.

Competition

The market for the sale of cannabis products is highly fragmented and competitive. We believe that competition is based principally upon price, quality, and efficacy of products, customer service, brand name and marketing and trade support, and successful new product introductions.

We believe our competition will include numerous cannabis product companies that are highly fragmented in terms of geographic market coverage, distribution channels and product categories. In addition, we anticipate that large pharmaceutical companies may eventually compete with us in the cannabis product market. These companies and certain large entities may be anticipated to have broader product lines and/or larger sales volumes than we do and have significantly greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities. We anticipate that many of our larger competitors will be able to compete more effectively due to a greater extent of vertical integration that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Regulation

Our operations are subject to a complex web of Federal and state regulations that are evolving at a rapid rate. Marijuana is currently classified as a Schedule I controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act (U.S.C. Section 811) which generally means that Congress has determined that marijuana is a dangerous drug and that the illegal distribution and sale of marijuana is a serious crime. The Controlled Substances Act does not recognize the differences between medical and recreational uses of marijuana and all uses are prohibited. On the other hand, many states have legalized various aspects of marijuana manufacture and distribution, although such activities are subject to stringent licensing and regulation which vary from state to state. In these states there exists a clear conflict between Federal and state law which has yet to be resolved.

Although many states have chosen to enact rules and regulations permitting the use of medical cannabis for their citizens under a State approved Medical Marijuana Program, under federal law cannabis is illegal. The State Medical Marijuana Programs provide protection from criminal prosecution for patients and primary caregivers who are qualified to participate in the Program and are in compliance with the regulations governing the Program.

In November, 2012 Colorado residents voted in favor of Amendment 64, an initiative ballot measure which allowed for the "personal use and regulation of marijuana" in Colorado. The initiative was enacted as Article 18, sec. 16 of the Colorado State Constitution and was implemented on January 1, 2014. It is referred to as "recreational use" by adults 21 and older and allows for the State to regulate commercial cultivation, manufacturing and sales of cannabis.

Similarly, in November, 2012, the residents of the State of Washington voted in favor of Initiative 502 which allows for "recreational use" by adults 21 and older and allows for the State regulation of commercial cultivation, manufacturing and sales of cannabis. In 2016, Oregon and Alaska passed measures for recreational marijuana which await implementation.

Although Colorado and Washington have enacted voter initiated measures to allow for the personal use of small amounts of cannabis by its citizens, both States are clear to remind their citizens that cannabis is currently illegal under federal law and classified as a Class I Controlled Substance.

There are several states with initiatives for State Medical Marijuana Programs pending on the ballot for upcoming elections while other states move forward through the legislative process.

The Company and our proposed products will also be subject to a number of other federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We anticipate that we will be required to manufacture our products in accordance with the Good Manufacturing Practices guidelines and will be subject to regulations relating to employee safety, working conditions, protection of the environment, and other items. Changes in such laws, rules and regulations or the recall of any product by a regulatory authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

The Business of Wild Earth

Wild Earth is an herbal skin care products formulation and marketing company that plans to target the growing natural health care products market in the United States and abroad. We develop and manufacture high-quality, herbal based skin care products providing healthier choices to consumers. We use specialized ingredient mixing processes to produce plant glycerite/mineral herbal blends and oil extractions, which we believe will be unique to the natural health products industry. The ingredients for our products are and will continue to be selected to meet a number of criteria, including, but not limited to: safety, potency, purity, stability, bio-availability, and efficacy. We plan to control the quality of our products beginning at the formulation stage and continuing through controlled sourcing of raw ingredients, manufacturing, packaging, and labeling.

Skin Garden Product Line

We are initially distributing and selling a natural, herbal based line of products called "The Skin Garden," which includes the products described below.

Go Deep . A deep penetrating healing salve that we believe reduces pain and inflammation when massaged into muscles, ligaments, tendons, and joints. Solomon's Root, a main ingredient in this formulation, is often referred to in the herbal industry as a "chiropractor's assistant" because it is believed to act as an herbal adjuster for muscles, ligaments, tendons, and joints. This formula also contains a number of essential oils which are designed to add antibacterial qualities and make the product useful for skin conditions such as Eczema and Psoriasis as well as for insect bites. Hempseed oil is used in this formula to carry the ingredients into the dermis.

GDX (Go Deep EXTRA) . A deep penetrating pain relief ointment that we believe is useful in mitigating Migraine and Sinus headaches when applied to forehead, temples, and back of the neck. GDX has been formulated with Black and Cayenne Pepper, which are believed to help increase circulation, and Camphor and Eucalyptus Oil which are believed to open sinus passages and relieve pressure on blood vessels in the head and neck. Hempseed Oil is used in this formula to transport ingredients into the dermis.

Face Garden . An antioxidant, moisturizing cream for the face. The ingredients in this formula include DMAE, Vitamins Ester C, B5, Oils of Evening Primrose and Borage Seed, which are believed to firm the skin and reduce puffiness and wrinkles, while restoring the skin to a natural glow and supple appearance. Hempseed, Neem, and Jojoba Oils are added to lock in moisture.

Body Garden . A moisturizing body lotion designed to relieve itchy dry skin and protect against sun damage. The ingredients in this formula include Hempseed Oil, Green Tea, and Blue Green Algae. The organic herbs, essential oils, butters, and minerals used in "Body Garden" have been formulated to provide nutrition to the skin which we believe encourages the dermis to remain healthy or return to health.

Lip Garden . An emollient balm containing Vitamin E and Hemp Butter that we believe can assist with healing of the lips while keeping them supple and moist.

We Brand CBD Drinking Water. A cannabidiol infused, THC free non psychoactive fortified with water-soluble hemp oil for maximum absorption and superior bipo-avability.

Production

Our products are produced using ingredients that we believe to be readily available from several sources. We purchase our raw materials from a number of different vendors.

Distribution and Marketing

During 2014 and 2015, we were developing formulas for our proprietary products, perfecting our branding, and gathering our promotional and packaging materials which delayed our initial target distribution dates. During 2016, we plan to execute several strategies designed to grow our business. Our sales force will initially consist of dedicated sales professionals who are assigned to specific classes of trade and/or geographic territories. These sales professionals will work directly with retailers and distributors to increase knowledge of our products and general personal care benefits, solicit orders for our products, maximize our shelf presence, and provide related product sales assistance.

We plan to market our products using a mix of trade and consumer promotions; Internet, radio and print media advertising; and consumer education efforts.

Online/Retail

We launched our website in August, 2013, employing high quality graphic artists and designers. We plan to use Search Engine Optimization technologies to attempt to gain first or early page search engine rankings, particularly on Google. Our online stores at www.wildearthnaturals.com and on www.Amazon.com are producing sales at this time.

Wholesale

In 2016, we plan to utilize Internet advertising, telephone and email campaigns, and trade show participation to generate sales leads and orders and to gain entry into leading health food stores and chains, as well as independent retailers throughout the U.S. and internationally. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in such efforts.

Geographic Presence

We plan to distribute and sell our products primarily in North America/Europe and China/Asia Pacific. To date we delivered products to California, Florida and Nevada in limited quantities.

Research and Development

It is through our internal research and development efforts and our relationships with outside research organizations and health care providers that we can provide what we believe to be some of the highest quality skin care products in the industry. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing and providing high quality herbal skin care products. Our research and development activities will include developing products that are new to the industry, updating existing formulas to keep them current with the latest science, and adapting existing formulas to meet ever-changing regulations in new and existing international markets. Our R&#38;D activities are led by David Tanner, whose previous experience includes an executive position with Earth Science, a subsidiary of Nature's Sunshine Products, and the founder of Apple-A-Day, one of the first companies in the industry to successfully combine trace mineral complexes with essential oils. Mr. Tanner is a formulator and is skilled in developing herbal tinctures, essential oils, trace minerals and mono-atomic high spin element combinations. Mr. Tanner has developed five formulas in the last year that presently make up our product line. We anticipate that additional research and development activities will include the following:

&#8226; &#160; Identify and research combinations of nutrients that may be candidates for new products; 

&#8226; &#160; Introduce new ingredients for use in supplements; 

&#8226; &#160; Study the metabolic activities of existing and newly identified ingredients; 

&#8226; &#160; Enhance existing products, as new discoveries in skin care are made; 

&#8226; &#160; Formulate products to meet diverse regulatory requirements across all of our markets; 

&#8226; &#160; Investigate processes for improving the production of our formulated products; and 

&#8226; &#160; Investigate activities of natural extracts and formulated products in laboratory and clinical settings. 

Intellectual Property

We hold a Federal trademark on the name and stylized branding of "Wild Earth Naturals". No assurance can be given that such steps as the company has and will take will provide sufficient protection against potential competitors and we may be unable to successfully assert our intellectual property rights or these rights may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any such invalidity, particularly with respect to our product names, or a successful intellectual property challenge or infringement proceeding against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Competition

The market for the sale of herbal skin care products is highly fragmented and competitive. We believe that competition is based principally upon price, quality, and efficacy of products, customer service, brand name and marketing and trade support, and successful new product introductions.

Our competition includes numerous skin care companies that are highly fragmented in terms of geographic market coverage, distribution channels, and product categories. In addition, large pharmaceutical companies compete with us in the skin care market. These companies and certain large entities have broader product lines and larger sales volumes than us and have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities. Among our more prominent competitors are: Earthly Body, Burt's Bees, Melaleuca and Clarins, all of which have substantially longer track records and greater financial resources and operating efficiencies than do we. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the market.

Many companies within the industry are privately held. Therefore, we are unable to assess the size of all of our competitors. As the personal care industry continues to evolve, we believe retailers will align themselves with suppliers who are financially stable, market a broad portfolio of products and/or well-known brands, provide quality assurance, and offer superior customer service. We believe that we will be able to compete favorably with other personal care companies on the basis of our planned levels of customer service, competitive pricing, sales and marketing support and quality of our product lines. However, as a newly formed company with limited capital resources, we believe will be at a competitive disadvantage until such time as we develop a broad portfolio of products that are known and accepted in the industry and we are able to demonstrate a history of financial stability.

Regulation

Our skin care products are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We are required to manufacture our products in accordance with the Good Manufacturing Practices guidelines and we are also subject to regulations relating to employee safety, working conditions, protection of the environment, and other items. Changes in such laws, rules and regulations or the recall of any product by a regulatory authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

Employees

We currently have two employees. Our employees are not represented by unions and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Facilities

Our office, warehouse and manufacturing facility is located at 1646 W. Pioneer Blvd., Suite 120, Mesquite, Nevada. The leased space constitutes a total of 2,539 square feet. The building in which our space is located is in foreclosure and we rent from the bank that controls the property on a month to month basis. We pay a total of $771.80 per month to the bank for our space.

