 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview 

We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on creating and developing novel medicines to address serious medical conditions. To date, we have focused our product development efforts in the fields of hemostasis, including the treatment of hemophilia and surgical bleeding, and inflammation, including prevention of delayed graft function (&#147;DGF&#148;) in renal transplants and the treatment of dry age-related macular degeneration (&#147;Dry AMD&#148;), a condition that can cause visual impairment or blindness for which there are no approved treatments. Our most advanced program is an improved next-generation coagulation Factor VIIa variant, CB 813d, that has successfully completed a Phase 1 clinical trial in severe hemophilia A and B patients. In addition to our lead Factor VIIa program, we have two other next-generation coagulation factors, a Factor IX variant, CB 2679d/ISU 304, that is in advanced preclinical development, and a Factor Xa variant, that has reached the advanced lead preclinical stage of development. Proteases regulate several complex biological cascades, or sequenced biochemical reactions, including the coagulation cascade that controls bleeding (hemostasis) in hemophilia and non-hemophilia settings and the complement cascade that causes inflammation and tissue damage in certain diseases. 

Proteases constitute an established and prominent class of drugs, with more than ten on the market, which we estimate, based on our research, generated over $6.3 billion worldwide annual sales in 2014. Our most advanced program is an improved next-generation coagulation Factor VIIa variant, CB 813d, that has completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating safety and tolerability as well as pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and coagulation activity in severe hemophilia A and B patients. Based on our research, we estimate annual worldwide sales in 2014 for FDA-approved Factor VIIa products were approximately $1.6 billion. In addition to our lead Factor VIIa program, we have a Factor IX variant, CB 2679d/ISU 304, that is in advanced preclinical development and several Factor Xa variants that have demonstrated efficacy and safety in preclinical animal models. Based on our research, we estimate annual worldwide sales in 2014 for FDA-approved Factor IX and Factor Xa-containing products were approximately $1.8 billion. We believe that these three coagulation factors could form the basis of a hemostasis franchise. 

We are also developing novel proteases that inhibit inflammation and tissue damage by cleaving certain components of the complement cascade, initially focused on C3. We have created and characterized the development candidate CB 2782 for the treatment of DGF in kidney transplants. We have created and discovered lead candidates for the potential treatment of dry AMD. 

We have delayed initiating preclinical IND-enabling studies for our Factor Xa variants and our anti-C3 protease for the prevention of DGF so that we can focus our efforts and resources on advancing CB 813d, our next generation Factor VIIa and CB 2679d, our next-generation FIX through Phase 2/3 and Phase 1/2 clinical trials respectively. 

We are applying our substantial expertise in protease engineering and its proprietary product discovery platform to create, engineer, and characterize protease drug candidates. Our protease discovery platform allows us to improve the biochemical and pharmacological properties of currently marketed protease drugs, such as Factor VIIa and Factor IX and to create completely novel proteases that cleave disease-causing proteins, such as C3. 

With drug candidates in clinical and advanced preclinical development across a range of diseases, we are a leader in the field of engineered protease biopharmaceuticals. We have assembled an experienced management team, scientists and advisors with subject matter expertise, a strategic collaborator, an enabling technology platform, and a leading intellectual property position in the fields of protease therapeutics and protease technologies to advance our clinical and preclinical pipeline. 

&#160;

Business Organization 

We commenced operations in 2002 and are a Delaware corporation. On August 20, 2015, the Company completed its business combination with Targacept, Inc., which was incorporated in Delaware in 1997. Following the completion of the merger, the business conducted by the Company became primarily the business conducted by Old Catalyst. We refer in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the business combination as the &#147;merger,&#148; to the Company prior to the merger as &#147;Targacept&#148; and to our subsidiary as &#147;Old Catalyst,&#148; and discussions of historical results reflect the results of Old Catalyst prior to the completion of the merger and do not include the historical results of Targacept prior to the completion of the merger. 

Our corporate headquarters are located in South San Francisco, California 94080. We report segment information using the &#147;management approach.&#148; Under this approach, operating segments are identified in substantially the same manner as they are reported internally and used by us for purposes of evaluating performance and allocating resources. Based on this approach, we have one reportable business segment. Our management reporting process is based on our internal operating structure, which is subject to change and is not necessarily similar to that of other comparable companies. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information regarding our business, see &#147;Item 7 Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. 

Our Product Candidate Pipeline 

Our drug research activities are currently devoted to the creation and clinical development of improved, next-generation pro-coagulant proteases Factor VIIa and Factor IX, and novel proteases that cleave complement factor C3 in the complement cascade to treat inflammatory diseases and dry AMD. 

The following table summarizes our development programs. 

Hemostasis &#38; Hemophilia 

Hemophilia is a rare but serious bleeding disorder that results from a genetic or an acquired deficiency of a protein required for normal blood coagulation. There are two major types of hemophilia, A and B, that are caused by alterations in Factor VIII or Factor IX genes, respectively, with a corresponding deficiency in the affected proteins. The disease is X chromosome-linked, meaning that most people who inherit the disorder and suffer from symptoms are male. However, female carriers of mutations in Factor VIII or Factor IX can also have difficulty making clotting factors. Hemophilia A occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 male births, and 

&#160;

hemophilia B in 1 in 30,000 male births. The prevalence of hemophilia A and B in the United States is estimated to be around 20,000 people, with more than 400,000 cases worldwide. Hemophilia patients suffer from spontaneous bleeding episodes as well as substantially prolonged bleeding times upon injury. In cases of severe hemophilia, spontaneous bleeding into muscles or joints is frequent and often results in permanent, disabling joint damage and can become life threatening. 

Currently there is no cure for hemophilia. Treatment usually involves management of acute bleeding episodes or prophylactic treatment through factor replacement therapy by infusion of patients&#146; missing Factor VIII or IX. 

Based on our research, we estimate worldwide sales of all Factor IX replacement products for the treatment of hemophilia B in 2014 were approximately $1.1 billion, including approximately $0.9 billion as reported by Pfizer, Inc. (&#147;Pfizer&#148;) for its BeneFIX &#174; product. 

A complication for hemophilia patients receiving factor replacement therapy is the production of antibodies against the replacement factor, also called inhibitors. The overall prevalence of inhibitor formation is up to 30% in patients with hemophilia A and up to 5% in patients with hemophilia B. Inhibitor patients are treated with what are known as bypassing agents that initiate coagulation by a pathway that is independent of Factor VIII or Factor IX, the proteins that are deficient in hemophilia A and B patients respectively. Currently available bypassing agents include recombinant Factor VIIa, NovoSeven &#174; RT produced by Novo Nordisk and activated prothrombin complex concentrates, marketed as FEIBA by Baxter. NovoSeven &#174; was first approved in 1999 and is indicated for treatment of bleeding episodes, prevention of bleeding during surgeries in patients with hemophilia A or B with inhibitors, and patients with congenital Factor VII deficiency. In 2006, it was approved for the treatment of acquired hemophilia. NovoSeven &#174; RT, was approved in 2014 and is indicated for treatment of Glanzmann&#146;s thrombasthenia. Sales of NovoSeven RT in 2014 were $1.6 billion, as reported by Novo Nordisk. FEIBA is approved for use in hemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors, which we estimate, based on our research, had 2014 sales of $0.7 billion. 

Hemophilia Inhibitor Patients&#151;Clinical Stage Factor VIIa Program 

Our most advanced product candidate is CB 813d, a next-generation Factor VIIa that was the subject of a Phase 1 clinical trial completed in February 2015 that evaluated the safety and tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and coagulation activity in severe hemophilia A and B with and without inhibitors. CB 813d is initially being developed for the on-demand and prophylactic treatment of severe hemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors. Pfizer had filed the Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA for this trial in August 2011 for adult males with hemophilia A or B, with or without inhibitors to Factor VIII or Factor IX. We plan to initiate a clinical efficacy trial in 2017. 

&#160;

In the Phase 1 clinical trial of CB 813d, 25 severe hemophilia A and B patients with and without inhibitors were enrolled and treated. The clinical trial design was a single ascending dose-escalation study with 1 patient treated at 0.5 &#181;g/kg followed by 4 cohorts of 6 patients each at doses of 4.5, 9.0, 18.0, and 30.0 &#181;g/kg. Clinical endpoints included safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and clot-forming activity, such as prothrombin time, or PT, activated partial thromboplastin time, or aPTT, thrombin-antithrombin activity and others. Results showed that single doses of CB 813d were well tolerated when administered to hemophilia A and B patients, and there were no instances of bleeding or thrombosis. As shown in the graph below, CB 813d demonstrated pharmacological efficacy as measured by significant shortening of aPTT (activated partial thromboplastin time) and PT (prothrombin time) for up to 48 hours post dosing. The results were presented in a poster session at the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) Meeting held in Toronto, Canada from June 20 to 25, 2015. 

&#160;

We designed CB 813d to combine higher clot-generating activity at the site of bleeding and improved duration of action in vivo . We anticipate that this product candidate could be used to treat acute bleeding episodes with both lower and fewer doses and decreased treatment time compared with existing products and other therapies in development. It was designed to allow for the effective, long-term, prophylactic management of hemophilia A and B inhibitor patients. To test this hypothesis, we compared CB 813d with NovoSeven &#174; RT in a preclinical murine tail clip model of bleeding. In this model, different groups of mice lacking the ability to produce Factor VIII (referred to as Factor VIII knockout mice) were either treated with Factor VIIa test articles or a saline control. The groups of mice were subjected to a tail clip at increasing time points after receiving either drug or saline. At each time point the amount of bleeding in the groups of mice treated with Factor VIIa test articles was compared with the groups of mice treated with the saline control, with 100% blood loss indicating that the mice treated with Factor VIIa test articles were bleeding at the same rate as if they received saline control. As shown in the graph below, CB 813d was able to prevent bleeding for significantly longer periods of time than NovoSeven &#174; . 

We have also identified treatment of surgical bleeding in both hemophilia inhibitor patients and non-hemophilia patients as attractive secondary indications for CB 813d. CB 813d has received orphan drug designation from the FDA. 

Hemophilia B Patients&#151;Factor IX 

Our next most advanced product candidate is CB 2679d/ISU 304, a next-generation Factor IX drug for the on-demand and prophylactic treatment of patients with hemophilia B, a chronic disease caused by a genetic deficiency in coagulation Factor IX. The National Hemophilia Foundation has recommended chronic, prophylactic treatment as the optimal therapy for patients with severe hemophilia B. CB 2679d/ISU 304 is currently in IND-enabling preclinical studies, and we intend to enter Phase 1/2 clinical development with our collaborator ISU Abxis in 2016. We entered into a co-development agreement with ISU Abxis in 2013. ISU Abxis is responsible for preclinical development activities and clinical development through a proof-of-concept Phase 1/2 study in hemophilia B patients. We retain rights for worldwide development of the product outside South Korea. 

CB 2679d/ISU 304 has demonstrated duration of action in vivo in preclinical models of bleeding and coagulation correction approximately 8 times longer than BeneFIX &#174; , the currently marketed Factor IX therapeutic, and 2-3 times longer than Alprolix, Biogen Idec&#146;s approved Factor IX-Fc fusion protein. 

&#160;

The Complement Cascade as a Target for Inflammatory Disease 

The complement cascade is a series of naturally occurring molecular processes that plays a central role in the body&#146;s inflammatory and immune responses. It helps to localize particular immune system cells at the site of infection or inflammation, to rupture the membranes of pathogens, and to mediate various specific responses to antigens through effects on both B- and T-cells. Consequently, drugs that target the complement cascade could potentially be used in a variety of indications, including prevention of transplant rejection, dry age-related macular degeneration, cardiovascular disease, asthma, and autoimmune disease. Many key targets within the complement cascade are found at such high concentrations that it is likely to be difficult or impractical to block their action with antibodies or small molecules because extremely high drug concentrations would be required for efficacy. We believe that the enzymatic properties of an engineered novel protease could overcome some of the challenges of inhibiting the complement cascade. 

Complement in Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury 

Our lead anti-C3 inflammation development candidate, CB 2782, is a novel protease for the prevention of delayed graft function (DGF) following kidney transplant driven by ischemia-reperfusion injury. This novel protease variant is directed against complement factor C3, a target present at concentrations that may be too high to address effectively with a therapeutic antibody or small molecule but which we believe is amenable to treatment using a protease. We have delayed initiating preclinical IND-enabling studies for our anti-C3 protease for the prevention of DGF so that we can focus our efforts and resources on advancing CB 813d, our next generation Factor VIIa and CB 2679d, our next-generation FIX through Phase 2/3 and Phase 1/2 clinical trials respectively. 

Ischemia, the interruption of the blood supply to a part of the body, commonly results in ischemia-reperfusion injury, or IRI. Injury caused by the initial loss of oxygen from the ischemia is well known. However, the sudden restoration of blood flow to ischemic tissue (called reperfusion) activates the complement cascade, leading to the production of potent pro-inflammatory mediators that cause additional cell and tissue injury, or IRI. Mice lacking the ability to activate the complement cascade due to genetic inability to produce C3, referred to as C3 knockout mice, have been shown to experience reduced IRI in a variety of model systems relevant to IRI indications. 

In kidney transplant procedures IRI is a major contributor to DGF. Patients with DGF require dialysis and extended hospitalization that is costly and damages the transplanted kidney. Approximately 18,000 kidney transplants are performed in the United States each year, with between 20-30% of patients experiencing complications with the transplanted kidney, including DGF. The occurrence of DGF is very costly because it requires the initiation of dialysis therapy, prolongs hospitalization, and can lead to transplant failure. Many kidneys are discarded pre-transplant because of fear of DGF post-transplant. Market research conducted for us on the use of novel proteases to pretreat kidney transplant recipients to prevent DGF projected a potential global annual revenue opportunity of approximately $0.6 billion. 

We selected CB 2782 as a development candidate from a group of specific novel proteases that cleave C3 and block activation of the complement cascade, preventing local tissue injury after reperfusion. Studies in non-human primates have demonstrated that our novel anti-C3 proteases display potent activity, completely removing C3 from the circulation, and appear to be well tolerated. 

In addition to DGF, a protease that effectively inhibits C3 could potentially have broader clinical applications in other indications such as the prevention of reperfusion injury in coronary artery bypass grafting, myocardial infarction, and stroke. 

Complement in Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration 

Dry age-related macular degeneration, or dry AMD, is the leading cause of blindness in the elderly worldwide and according to Nature, a scientific journal, affects approximately 20 million people in the United States and EU 

&#160;

combined, with the potential size of the dry AMD market worldwide estimated at $30 billion. The disease is a chronic condition characterized by a progressive loss of central vision due mostly to degenerative changes and/or the formation of microvascular networks in the center of the eye&#146;s visual field, called the macula. There are two forms of AMD, wet and dry. Wet AMD is the more severe form of the disease and represents approximately 10% of all AMD patients. Dry AMD is the most common form of early to intermediate stage AMD and occurs in approximately 90% of patients with the condition. While there have been recent improvements in the treatment of wet AMD, dry AMD treatment remains an unmet medical need. 

Recent studies from several independent investigators have demonstrated that over 70% of the risk of developing AMD (both dry and wet forms) corresponds to mutations in human complement genes, particularly the factor H gene whose product is required for proper regulation of the complement cascade. Also recently, Roche/Genentech&#146;s Anti-Factor D antibody fragment demonstrated an approximately 20-40% reduction of lesion size growth after 18 monthly injections in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial for geographic atrophy, or GA, an advanced form of dry AMD. This clinical study suggests that inhibition of the complement cascade can have a significant effect on the progression of GA. 

We are developing an anti-C3 novel protease that is being optimized for chronic administration in the eye. These molecules should have an advantage over antibodies because, while they should exhibit a similar rate of clearance from the eye as antibodies, their catalytic activity will allow them to effectively cleave C3 at protease concentrations that are far lower than the C3 target concentration. This, in turn, could be expected to allow less frequent dosing, a critical consideration for drugs injected into the eye. We expect to demonstrate bi-monthly dosing feasibility in the dry AMD program during 2016. 

Protease Product Discovery Platform 

Among our scientific team, management, and advisors are leading experts in protease engineering, biology, and drug discovery. We have leveraged this expertise to develop a proprietary, industrialized protease product discovery engine composed of the following important components. 

Rational Design of Improved Proteases : We are able to leverage our scientific team&#146;s expertise in protease structure and function and in predictive modeling to create protease variants using a rational design strategy. In this process a small number of amino acids in a given protease are substituted in an iterative fashion with other amino acids to improve the molecule&#146;s biological properties. We believe that this approach can provide us with important differentiated advantages, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increasing a protease&#146;s catalytic activity (speed in cleaving targets); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Modulating cofactor dependence, the ability to form complexes, with other proteins to facilitate the cleavage of the target; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Modulating inhibitor resistance to disrupt natural regulatory interactions that can reduce efficacy; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Adjusting pharmacokinetics, the duration of circulation through the body and presence in tissues. We have used this technology to create our next-generation Factor VIIa, Factor IX, and Factor Xa variants. 

Creation and Selection of Novel Proteases : We have optimized a propriety method to create novel proteases that cleave a disease-causing protein target. First, it constructs a large library of proteases containing more than ten billion variants of a starting protease. Our most commonly used starting protease scaffolds are membrane type serine protease 1, or MTSP-1, and urokinase plasminogen activator, or uPA. From these libraries, we use a patent-protected process to select lead proteases that preferentially cleave the target of interest. The field of leads can be narrowed by repeating the selection process or by counter-selecting the library to reduce cleavage of non-target proteins. Many parts of this core technology have been automated, facilitating rapid identification of novel 

&#160;

engineered proteases with new substrate specificities not previously contemplated as potential therapeutics. We believe that this approach can provide us with important differentiated advantages including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Evolving the specificity and activity of a starting protease scaffold towards a desired target; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Reducing the activity of a protease towards other targets; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increasing resistance to naturally occurring protease inhibitors. This technology was used to select novel MTSP-1 and uPA-based variants that cleave complement factor C3, leading to the selection of our anti-complement drug candidates. 

Confirmation of Activity and Selectivity Through In Vitro Assays : We have developed our own and uses highly specialized in vitro assays that measure the properties of our proteases to ensure that they cleave the correct target in the desired manner. 

Protease Expression and Purification : We use both mammalian and bacterial systems to manufacture protease developmental leads and product candidates for preclinical testing. The production and purification of these proteases are highly specialized processes in which we have considerable expertise and know-how. For example, our next-generation coagulation Factor VIIa, Factor IX, and Factor Xa product candidates require specialized mammalian cells that correctly modify the desired factor to maintain its activity in vivo . 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to use our transformative protease platform to become a leading company in the discovery, development, and commercialization of products based on engineered human proteases. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Advance the Clinical Development of our Lead Product Candidates: Our most advanced drug candidate, CB 813d, for the treatment of hemophilia and surgical bleeding, recently completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating safety and tolerability as well as pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and coagulation activity. We expect that we will advance CB 813d into a clinical efficacy trial in hemophilia A and hemophilia B inhibitor patients in the first quarter of 2017. In addition, we expect that our collaborator ISU Abxis will initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of CB 2679d/ISU 304, a next-generation Factor IX drug candidate for the treatment of patients with hemophilia B, in 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage Existing Strategic Factor IX Collaboration: We have established a strategic collaboration with ISU Abxis for its CB 2679d/ISU 304 program. We are entitled to up front and milestone payments of up to $5 million and have retained worldwide commercialization rights, except for ISU Abxis&#146; right of first refusal for commercialization rights in South Korea, and subject to a future profit sharing arrangement. We believe our Factor IX collaboration contributes to our ability to advance our Factor IX product candidate to the clinical stage. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Build a Hemostasis Franchise: We intend to build on our recent clinical and preclinical success in Factor VIIa and Factor IX by advancing its Factor VIIa program into a clinical efficacy trial in 2017. The combination of a Factor VIIa product entering into a clinical efficacy trial and two additional wholly owned (except for CB 2679d/ISU 304 in South Korea) coagulation factors could allow us to build a strong hemostasis franchise. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Build an Anti-complement Franchise. Our novel protease approach to regulating the complement cascade has the potential to create several highly differentiated drug candidates that address diseases with significant unmet medical needs, including DGF and dry AMD. &#160;

Collaborations 

Pfizer 

On June 29, 2009 we entered into a research and license agreement with Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc., subsequently acquired by Pfizer, whereby we and Pfizer collaborated on the development of novel human Factor VIIa products and we granted Pfizer the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the licensed products on a worldwide basis. As a result of this agreement, Pfizer paid us an up-front non-refundable signing fee of $21.0 million, which was initially recognized as revenue ratably over the term of our continuing involvement in the research and development of products with Pfizer. The term was determined to be five years (covering the initial two-year research term plus potential extensions permitted under the applicable agreement). 

During the initial two years of the collaboration period Pfizer reimbursed us for certain costs incurred in the development of the licensed products including FTE-based research payments. Following the conclusion of the initial collaboration, without extension by Pfizer, we had no further substantive performance obligations to Pfizer under the agreement and we recognized the remaining $12.6 million of deferred revenue related to the up-front fee in June 2011. Subsequently, in August 2013, we entered into an amendment to the Pfizer agreement, in accordance with which Pfizer made two $1.5 million non-refundable annual license maintenance payments to us in August 2013 and August 2014 and we agreed to certain performance obligations to Pfizer for the period starting from the effective date of the amendment. Pfizer was also obligated to pay to us contingent milestone-based payments upon the occurrence of certain defined development, commercialization, and sales-based milestones. 

On April 2, 2015 Pfizer notified us that it was exercising its right to terminate the research and license agreement effective June 1, 2015. Accordingly we revised the expected period of performance to end on June 1, 2015 and the deferred revenue balance was fully amortized as of that date. We are currently negotiating with Pfizer regarding rights to use certain manufacturing technology and materials. 

ISU Abxis 

On September 16, 2013 we entered into a License and Collaboration Agreement with ISU Abxis, as subsequently amended on October 31, 2014, or the ISU Abxis Agreement. Under the ISU Abxis Agreement, we licensed our proprietary human Factor IX products to ISU Abxis for initial development in South Korea. ISU Abxis is responsible for development and manufacturing of the licensed products through Phase 1/2 clinical trials. Until the completion of Phase 1 development ISU Abxis also has a right of first refusal with respect to commercialization rights for the licensed products in South Korea. We have the sole rights and responsibility for worldwide development, manufacture, and commercialization of Factor IX products after Phase 1/2 development unless ISU Abxis has exercised its right of first refusal regarding commercialization rights in South Korea in which case our rights are throughout the entire world excluding South Korea. ISU Abxis&#146;s development and manufacturing rights (but not its right of first refusal) will also terminate in the event that we enter into a license agreement with another party to develop, manufacture, and commercialize Factor IX products in at least two major market territories. 

Prior to completion of Phase 1/2 clinical studies, ISU Abxis is responsible for and will fund the clinical development and manufacture of the licensed products. ISU Abxis will also reimburse us for a portion of our costs relating to intellectual property filings and maintenance thereof on products. We have established a joint steering committee with ISU Abxis to, among other things, coordinate and assist in planning and execution of development activities and review the product development plan. 

ISU Abxis paid us a non-refundable upfront signing fee of $1.75 million. ISU Abxis is also obligated to make contingent cash payments to us of up to $3.25 million payable based upon the achievement of predefined development milestones (none of which have been achieved as of December 31, 2015 and through the date of this filing). In addition, we are required to pay ISU Abxis a royalty of between a quarter and a third of our net 

&#160;

profits determined on a country-by-country basis until the expiration of the last valid claim in such country or fifteen years after the first commercial sale of a product in such country, whichever is sooner, after which time we will have a perpetual, irrevocable and non-exclusive license to the applicable technology with respect to such country. However, if the Phase 1/2 clinical study of the Factor IX products is not completed by a specified date and we continue the development of Factor IX products using cell lines created by ISU Abxis or in a manner that otherwise would be covered by a patent held by ISU Abxis or if the Phase 1/2 clinical trial is not successful and we continue to develop the Factor IX products, we will be obligated to pay ISU Abxis a low single-digit royalty on net product sales, in addition to up to $2.0 million in potential milestone payments to ISU Abxis. Either party may terminate the ISU Abxis Agreement in its entirety upon written notice of a material uncured breach or upon the other party&#146;s bankruptcy and we may terminate the agreement upon prior notice if the Phase 1 clinical study is not completed by a certain date. As of December 31, 2015, the cumulative aggregate payments received and recognized by us under this agreement were $1.0 million, and we had made no payments to ISU Abxis. 

Intellectual Property 

We have established a broad intellectual property portfolio including patents and patent applications covering the identification, selection, optimization, and manufacture of human proteases, the composition of matter and methods of use of our product candidates and related technology, and other inventions that are important to our business. 

We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business by seeking, maintaining and defending patent rights, whether developed internally or in conjunction with or in-licensed from third parties. We also rely on trade secrets relating to our proprietary technology platform and on know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop, strengthen, and maintain our proprietary position in the field of human protease engineering. 

As more fully described below, as of February 29, 2016, our patent portfolio included approximately 105 patents; including 13 issued and allowed U.S. patents and 92 foreign granted and accepted patents, and 3 U.S. patent applications, plus an additional 86 pending foreign patent applications. We also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Defend and enforce our patents; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. 

In addition, a third-party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights that are important or necessary to the development of our products. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. For example, certain of the methods for screening our novel proteases, our non-complement proteases modified to cleave a 

&#160;

complement protein such as C2 or C3, or for using proteases as scaffolds, are covered by patents held by third parties. Although we have obtained exclusive licenses to these patents from these third parties on what we believe are commercially reasonable terms, if we were not able to obtain a license on similar technology, or were not able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. In addition, we are aware of a patent that has been issued in Europe (with counterparts in Australia, China, Japan, Poland and South Korea) and includes a claim that may read on CB 813d. An opposition proceeding with respect to this patent sustained this patent, and we are considering whether to appeal. There can also be no assurance whether or not the claims of such patent would be found to read on CB 813d even if a claim survives the opposition. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to compositions of matter, materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. 

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our product candidates will be protectable or remain protected by enforceable patents. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented, or invalidated by third parties. 

Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or a foreign patent office to determine priority of invention or in post-grant challenge proceedings, such as oppositions, that challenge priority of invention or other features of patentability. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. 

All of our patents and applications were internally developed and assigned to us, except for one pending South Korean patent application that is co-owned. In addition, members of the 4902 family directed to screening methods (14 patents, including 2 issued U.S. patents) are jointly owned with the Torrey Pines Institute for Molecular Studies, which licensed its interest to us. We are currently reviewing our patent portfolio and may choose to abandon certain patents that do not appear to have significant value. Our current patents and patent applications include:

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 56 patents, including 1 issued U.S. patent, and 34 patent applications, including 1 U.S. patent application, covering modified Factor VII polypeptides, such as our lead product candidate, CB 813d, and methods of production of modified Factor VII polypeptides. The U.S. patent, with patent term adjustment, and patent application, if granted, expires or is expected to expire, in 2031 and 2030. The foreign patents and patent applications, if granted, expire, or are expected to expire, respectively, in 2028-2029. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 5 patents, including 3 issued and allowed U.S. patents and 17 patent applications, covering modified Factor IX polypeptides, such as our clinical candidate CB 2679d/ISU 304. The issued and allowed U.S. patents, including patent term adjustment, expire, or are expected to expire, respectively, in 2030-2032 and the foreign patents and patent applications, if granted, expire, or are expected to expire, respectively, in 2031. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 27 patents, including 4 issued and allowed U.S. patents, and 22 patent applications, including 1 U.S. patent applications, covering novel proteases. The U.S. patents, and patent applications, if granted, including patent term adjustment, expire or are expected to expire, respectively, in 2025-2029, and the foreign patents and foreign patent applications, if granted, expire, or are expected to expire, in 2025-2027. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 1 issued U.S. patent and 16 patent applications, including 1 U.S. patent applications, covering improved Factor Xa variants and methods of production of improved Factor Xa variants. The issued patent and patent applications, if granted, including patent term adjustment, expire, or are expected to expire in 2033. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 14 patents, including 2 issued U.S. patents, covering methods for identifying proteases that cleave or inactivate a protein target. The U.S. patents, including patent term adjustment, expire in 2027-2030, and the foreign patents expire in 2027. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 2 issued U.S. patents covering the MTSP-1 protease scaffold used for our novel proteases, which expire in 2019. The term for individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are granted. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date of a non-provisional patent application in that country or the international filing date. In the United States, a patent&#146;s term may, in certain cases, be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over a commonly owned patent or a patent naming a common inventor and having an earlier expiration date. 

The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration date of a U.S. patent as partial compensation for the length of time the drug is under regulatory review while the patent is in force. A patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval. Only one patent applicable to each regulatory review period may be extended and only those claims covering the approved drug, a method for using it or a method for manufacturing it may be extended. Similar provisions are available in the European Union and certain other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. 

In the future, to the extent our product candidates including CB 813d, CB 2679d/ISU 304, and novel anti-C3 proteases receive approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on issued patents covering those products, depending upon the length of the clinical trials for each drug and other factors. 

In addition to the above intellectual property owned by Catalyst, we obtained the intellectual property related to the neural nicotinic receptor (NNR) portfolio from Targacept in the reverse merger. We are currently in the process of out-licensing, selling off and terminating the remaining NNR portfolio obtained from Targacept and expect this process to be completed by the end of 2016. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expects to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates that receive marketing approval. Pfizer has historically been responsible for manufacturing CB 813d for clinical trials pursuant to our license and collaboration agreement with Pfizer, but we will need to transition such activities from Pfizer as a result of Pfizer&#146;s termination of the agreement effective June 1, 2015. We have begun the transfer of manufacturing technology from Pfizer to a third-party contract manufacturer, and we are in discussions with Pfizer about obtaining manufacturing technology, materials and know-how related to CB 813d, although there can be no assurance that we will agree to the terms with Pfizer, or that any such technology and know-how transfer will be successful. ISU Abxis is responsible for manufacturing CB 2679d/ISU 304, our next-generation Factor IX drug candidate, through the completion of Phase 1 clinical trials, after which point we will be responsible for manufacturing this product candidate. We intend to identify and qualify third-party manufacturers for this product candidate. 

&#160;

Commercialization 

We have not yet established a sales, marketing, or product distribution infrastructure for our other product candidates, which are still in preclinical or early clinical development. Except for ISU Abxis&#146; potential rights to commercialize CB 2679d/ISU 304 in South Korea, we generally expect to retain commercial rights for the company&#146;s product candidates. We believe that it will be possible to access the United States hemophilia market through a focused, specialized sales force. We have not yet developed a commercial strategy outside of the United States. 

Subject to receiving marketing approvals, we expect to commence commercialization activities by building a focused sales and marketing organization in the United States to sell our products. We believe that such an organization will be able to address the community of hematologists who are the key specialists in treating hemophilia patients for which our product candidates are being developed. 

Competition 

Some of our proposed products will face competition from approved therapeutics. Competition for our pipeline products comes primarily from large, well-established pharmaceutical companies, who have greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, conducting clinical trials, and marketing approved products. Mergers and acquisitions within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may further concentrate competitors&#146; resources. We are not only competing with these companies in terms of technology, but also in recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and management personnel, in establishing partnerships with clinical trial sites, and in registering patients into clinical trials. 

In addition to current standard of care for patients, clinical trials are being pursued by a number of parties in the field of biologics and in our lead indications. These products in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience, and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Based on publically available information, the following are some of the products being developed by competitors in indications overlapping with those of our programs. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Factor VIIa Competition : Novo Nordisk&#146;s NovoSeven is a recombinant Factor VIIa indicated for treatment of bleeding episodes. NovoSeven was FDA approved in 1999 for use in the treatment of hemophilia A or B patients with inhibitors to Factor VIII or Factor IX. The treatment has since been approved for use in patients with Factor VII deficiency and Glanzmann&#146;s thrombasthenia. Several other companies have competing products under development, including companies developing biosimilars of NovoSeven, such as Baxalta&#146;s BAX 817, that was filed for approval in late 2015, and rEVO Biologics, whose product is in a Phase 3 clinical trial, as well as Roche, whose biospecific Factor VIII-Factor IX monoclonal antibody has recently completed a Phase 1/2 clinical trial, and Alnylam, whose investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting antithrombin for the treatment of hemophilia is in a Phase 1 clinical trial. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Factor IX Competition: BeneFIX, a recombinant Factor IX indicated for treatment of hemophilia B patients, was approved in 1997 and is marketed by Pfizer, which reported 2014 revenues of $0.9 billion, according to Pfizer&#146;s Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, Alprolix, a Factor IX-Fc product approved in 2014, is marketed by Biogen Idec and Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI - in Europe, Russia, North Africa and the Middle East) with 2014 revenues of $0.1 billion, and Rixubis, a recombinant Factor IX biosimilar approved in 2013, is marketed by Baxalta, with 2014 revenues of $0.2 billion, which we estimate, based on our research. CSL Behring announced they were approved a biologics license application (BLA) on their Idelvion (rFIX) product by the FDA on March 4, 2016 and Novo Nordisk has announced plans to file a BLA during the first half of 2016 for its glyco-pegylated-FIX product. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Delayed Graft Function Competition: While there are no currently approved treatments for DGF that we believe would pose competitive risk, several companies are developing antibody and small molecule-based product candidates currently in Phase 2 &#38; 3 studies. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Dry AMD Competition: While there are no currently approved treatments for dry AMD that we believe would pose competitive risk, several companies, including Genentech and Novartis, are developing antibody-based product candidates for treatment of dry AMD currently in Phase 2 or Phase 3 studies, and Ophthotech is developing its commercially available product, Zimura, for indications in both dry and wet AMD. Our commercial opportunity in different indications could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more convenient to use, more effective, less expensive, and safer to use than our products. Furthermore, if competitors gain FDA approval faster than we do, we may be unable to establish a strong market presence or to gain market share. The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition, and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. 

Government Regulation 

As a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company that operates in the United States, we are subject to extensive regulation. Our engineered human protease products will be regulated as biological products. Biological products, including engineered human proteases, are subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FD&#38;C Act, and the Public Health Service Act, or PHS Act, and other federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations. The FD&#38;C Act and the PHS Act and their implementing regulations govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of biological products. FDA approval must be obtained before clinical testing of a biological product begins and before the marketing of biological products. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development, the approval process, or after product approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. FDA sanctions could include, among other actions, refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls or withdrawals from the market, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

U.S. Biological Products Development Process 

The process required by the FDA before a biological product may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of nonclinical laboratory tests and animal studies according to good laboratory practices, or GLPs, and applicable requirements for the humane use of laboratory animals or other applicable regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to the FDA&#146;s regulations, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, and any additional requirements for the protection of human research subjects and their health information, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed biological product for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a biologics license application or BLA for marketing approval that includes substantive evidence of safety, purity and potency from results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the biological product is produced to assess compliance with good manufacturing practices or GMP, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the biological product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity and, if applicable, the FDA&#146;s current good tissue practices, or GTPs, for the use of human cellular and tissue products; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; potential FDA audit of the nonclinical study and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the BLA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval, or licensure, of the BLA. Before testing any biological product candidate, including an engineered human protease, in humans, the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests, also referred to as nonclinical studies, include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including GLPs. 

The clinical trial sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with the manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. Some preclinical testing may continue even after an IND is submitted. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the clinical study on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a biological product candidate at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, trials may not recommence without FDA authorization and then only under terms authorized by the FDA. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that suspend or terminate such trials. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the biological product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor&#146;s control. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety, including stopping rules that assure a clinical trial will be stopped if certain adverse events should occur. Each protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical trials must be conducted and monitored in accordance with the FDA&#146;s regulations comprising the GCP requirements, including the requirement that all research patients provide informed consent. Further, each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at or servicing each institution at which the clinical trial will be conducted. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of trial participants and considers such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the form and content of the informed consent that must be signed by each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. Clinical trials also must be reviewed by an institutional biosafety committee, or IBC, a local institutional committee that reviews and oversees basic and clinical research conducted at that institution. The IBC assesses the safety of the research and identifies any potential risk to public health or the environment. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1. The biological product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients, particularly where the drug may be too inherently toxic to administer ethically to healthy subjects. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 . The biological product is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3 . Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy, potency, and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These clinical trials are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication, particularly for long-term safety follow-up. 

Engineered protease biopharmaceuticals are a relatively new class of therapeutics. Because this is a relatively new and expanding area of novel therapeutic interventions, there can be no assurance as to the length of the trial period, the number of patients the FDA will require to be enrolled in the trials in order to establish the safety, efficacy, purity and potency of the engineered protease products, or that the data generated in these trials will be acceptable to the FDA to support marketing approval. 

Concurrently with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the physical characteristics of the biological product as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with GMP requirements. To help reduce the risk of the introduction of adventitious agents with use of biological products, the PHS Act emphasizes the importance of manufacturing control for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the sponsor must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality, potency and purity of the final biological product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the biological product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

U.S. Review and Approval Processes 

After the completion of clinical trials of a biological product, FDA approval of a BLA must be obtained before commercial marketing of the biological product. The BLA must include results of product development, laboratory and animal studies, human trials, information on the manufacture and composition of the product, proposed labeling and other relevant information. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. The testing and approval processes require substantial time and effort and there can be no assurance that the FDA will accept the BLA for filing and, even if filed, that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as amended, each BLA must be accompanied by a significant user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for biological products and an annual establishment fee on facilities used to manufacture prescription biological products. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on BLAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication. 

Within 60 days following submission of the application, the FDA reviews a BLA submitted to determine if it is substantially complete before the agency accepts it for filing. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission and may request additional information. In this event, the BLA must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review of the BLA. The FDA reviews the BLA to determine, among other things, whether the 

&#160;

proposed product is safe and potent, or effective, for its intended use, and has an acceptable purity profile, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with GMP to assure and preserve the product&#146;s identity, safety, strength, quality, potency and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel biological products or biological products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the biological product approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, is necessary to assure the safe use of the biological product. If the FDA concludes a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the BLA must submit a proposed REMS. The FDA will not approve a BLA without a REMS, if required. 

Before approving a BLA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with GMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure that the clinical trials were conducted in compliance with IND trial requirements and GCP requirements. To assure GMP and GCP compliance, an applicant must incur significant expenditure of time, money and effort in the areas of training, record keeping, production, and quality control. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, a BLA or supplement to a BLA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. 

Notwithstanding the submission of relevant data and information, the FDA may ultimately decide that the BLA does not satisfy its regulatory criteria for approval and deny approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than how we interpret the same data. If the agency decides not to approve the BLA in its present form, the FDA will issue a complete response letter that describes all of the specific deficiencies in the BLA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical trials. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the BLA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. The FDA may impose restrictions and conditions on product distribution, prescribing, or dispensing in the form of a REMS, or otherwise limit the scope of any approval. In addition, the FDA may require post marketing clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, designed to further assess a biological product&#146;s safety and effectiveness, and testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 

The FDA has agreed to certain review goals under PDUFA, and aims to complete its review of 90% of standard BLAs within ten months from filing and 90% of priority BLAs within six months from filing. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority BLAs and its review goals are subject to change from time to time. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests, or the BLA sponsor otherwise provides, additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the last three months before the PDUFA goal date. 

&#160;

Fast Track Designation, Accelerated Approval, Priority Review and Breakthrough Therapy Programs 

The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs and biological products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs and biological products are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a new drug or biological product may request the FDA to designate the drug or biological product as a Fast Track product at any time during the clinical development of the product. Under a Fast Track designation, the FDA may consider for review sections of the marketing application on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the application, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the application and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the application. 

Other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review, accelerated approval and Breakthrough Therapy designation, also exist. A product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug or biological product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Drug or biological products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that they may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug or biological product receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval, pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. 

A product may also be eligible for receipt of a Breakthrough Therapy designation. The Breakthrough Therapy designation is intended to expedite the FDA&#146;s review of a potential new drug for serious or life-threatening diseases where &#147;preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development.&#148; The designation of a drug as a Breakthrough Therapy provides the same benefits as are available under the Fast Track program, as well as intensive FDA guidance on the product&#146;s development program. Fast Track designation, priority review, accelerated approval and Breakthrough Therapy designation do not change the standards for approval, but may expedite the development or approval process. 

Post-approval Requirements 

Maintaining substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Rigorous and extensive FDA regulation of biological products continues after approval, particularly with respect to GMP. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of any products that we may commercialize. Manufacturers of our products are required to comply with applicable requirements in the GMP regulations, including quality control and quality assurance and maintenance of records and documentation. Other post-approval requirements applicable to biological products include reporting of GMP deviations that may affect the identity, potency, purity and overall safety of a distributed product, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse effects, reporting updated safety and efficacy information, and complying with electronic record and signature requirements. After a BLA is approved, the product also may be subject to official lot release. As part of the manufacturing process, the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product 

&#160;

before it is released for distribution. If the product is subject to official release by the FDA, the manufacturer submits samples of each lot of product to the FDA together with a release protocol showing a summary of the history of manufacture of the lot and the results of all of the manufacturer&#146;s tests performed on the lot. In addition, the FDA conducts laboratory research related to the regulatory standards on the safety, purity, potency and effectiveness of biological products. 

We also must comply with the FDA&#146;s advertising and promotion requirements, such as those related to direct-to-consumer advertising, the prohibition on promoting products for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the product&#146;s approved labeling (known as &#147;off-label use&#148;), industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the internet. Discovery of previously unknown problems or the failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant or manufacturer to administrative or judicial civil or criminal sanctions and adverse publicity. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, clinical hold, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, debarment, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Biological product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of approved biological products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with GMPs and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain GMP compliance. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved BLA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process or facility generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same disease, except in limited circumstances, for seven years. These circumstances are an inability to supply the drug in sufficient quantities or a situation in which a new formulation of the drug has shown superior safety or efficacy or a major contribution to patient care. This exclusivity, however, could also block the approval of our product for seven years if a competitor obtains earlier approval of the same drug for the same indication. 

U.S. Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA, amended the PHS Act to authorize the FDA to approve similar versions of innovative biologics, commonly known as biosimilars. A competitor seeking approval of a biosimilar must file an application to establish its molecule as highly similar to an approved 

&#160;

innovator biologic, among other requirements. The BPCIA, however, bars the FDA from accepting biosimilar applications for 4 years after an innovator biological product receives initial marketing approval and from approving biosimilar applications for 12 years after an innovator biological product receives initial marketing approval. As innovative biological products, we believe that our products would receive this data protection if the FDA approves them for marketing. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity that may apply to biological products approved in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods, include the 4- and 12-year periods discussed. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent term, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued &#147;Written Request&#148; for such a trial. 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of the use of our product candidates, some of our U.S. patents, if granted, may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent restoration term of up to five years, as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of a BLA plus the time between the submission date of a BLA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved product is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we may intend to apply for restoration of patent term for one of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending on the expected length of the clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant BLA. 

Other U.S. Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements 

In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including but not limited to, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the DOJ, and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the false claims laws, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and similar state laws, each as amended. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term remuneration has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. The exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for protection under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor. 

&#160;

Additionally, the intent standard under the Anti-Kickback Statute was amended by the Affordable Care Act to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the Affordable Care Act codified case law that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act (discussed below). 

The civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person or entity who, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. As a result of a modification made by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, a claim includes &#147;any request or demand&#148; for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies&#146; marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. 

HIPAA created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any money or property owned by, or under the control or custody of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device, a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of, or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. 

Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

We may be subject to data privacy and security regulations by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA&#146;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to business associates independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys&#146; fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Additionally, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the Affordable Care Act, and its implementing regulations, require that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. 

In order to distribute products commercially, we must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of drug and biological products in a state, including, in certain states, 

&#160;

manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. All of our activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state healthcare laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including without limitation, civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, injunctions, private &#147;qui tam&#148; actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into government contracts, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. 

Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend, in part, on the extent to that third-party payors provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for such products. In the United States, third-party payors include federal and state healthcare programs, private managed care providers, health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price of a product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that such a payor will pay for the product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products, therapies and services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the EU, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. 

&#160;

The marketability of any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on healthcare pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. 

Additional Regulation 

In addition to the foregoing, state and federal laws regarding environmental protection and hazardous substances, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Resource Conservancy and Recovery Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, affect our business. These and other laws govern the use, handling and disposal of various biological, chemical and radioactive substances used in, and wastes generated by, our operations. If our operations result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and governmental fines. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and that continued compliance therewith will not have a material adverse effect on its business. We cannot predict, however, how changes in these laws may affect its future operations. 

Government Regulation Outside of the United States 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval of a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Certain countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical trial application much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. In the EU, for example, a clinical trial application must be submitted to each country&#146;s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively. Once the clinical trial application is approved in accordance with a country&#146;s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed. Because biologically sourced raw materials are subject to unique contamination risks, their use may be restricted in some countries. 

The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug or biological product under EU regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application. The application used to file the BLA in the United States is similar to that required in the EU, with the exception of, among other things, country-specific document requirements. 

&#160;

For other countries outside of the EU, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, again, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

If we or our potential collaborators fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development costs were $6.0 million, $5.3 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See &#147; Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#148; for additional details regarding our research and development activities. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 19 full-time employees, 9 of whom have Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. Of these full-time employees, 13 employees are engaged in research and development activities and 6 employees are engaged in finance, legal, human resources, facilities and general management. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees and we have not experienced any work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Available Information 

We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at www.catalystbiosciences.com , free of charge, copies of these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov . 

The information in or accessible through the websites referred to above are not incorporated into, and are not considered part of, this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

&#160;

