 Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

Commerce Bancshares, Inc., a bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, was incorporated under the laws of Missouri on August 4, 1966. Through a second tier wholly-owned bank holding company, it owns all of the outstanding capital stock of Commerce Bank (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), which is headquartered in Missouri. The Bank engages in general banking business, providing a broad range of retail, corporate, investment, trust, and asset management products and services to individuals and businesses. Commerce Bancshares, Inc. also owns, directly or through the Bank, various non-banking subsidiaries. Their activities include private equity investment, securities brokerage, insurance agency, mortgage banking, and leasing activities. A list of Commerce Bancshares, Inc.'s subsidiaries is included as Exhibit 21. 

Commerce Bancshares, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is one of the nation&#8217;s top 50 bank holding companies, based on asset size. At December 31, 2015 , the Company had consolidated assets of $24.6 billion , loans of $12.4 billion , deposits of $20.0 billion , and equity of $2.4 billion . All of the Company&#8217;s operations conducted by its subsidiaries are consolidated for purposes of preparing the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements. The Company's principal markets, which are served by 191 branch facilities, are located throughout Missouri, Kansas, and central Illinois, as well as Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Denver, Colorado. Its two largest markets include St. Louis and Kansas City, which serve as the central hubs for the entire Company. The Company also has commercial loan production offices in Dallas, Nashville, and Cincinnati, and operates a national payments business with sales representatives covering 48 states. 

The Company&#8217;s goal is to be the preferred provider of targeted financial services in its communities, based on strong customer relationships. It believes in building long-term relationships based on top quality service, a strong risk management culture, and a strong balance sheet with industry-leading capital levels. The Company operates under a super-community banking format which incorporates large bank product offerings coupled with deep local market knowledge, augmented by experienced, centralized support in select critical areas. The Company&#8217;s focus on local markets is supported by an experienced team of managers assigned to each market and is also reflected in its financial centers and regional advisory boards, which are comprised of local business persons, professionals and other community representatives, who assist the Company in responding to local banking needs. In addition to this local market, community-based focus, the Company offers sophisticated financial products available at much larger financial institutions. 

The markets the Bank serves, being located in the lower Midwest, provide natural sites for production and distribution facilities and also serve as transportation hubs. The economy has been well-diversified in these markets with many major industries represented, including telecommunications, automobile, technology, financial services, aircraft and general manufacturing, health care, numerous service industries, and food and agricultural production. The real estate lending operations of the Bank are centered in its lower Midwestern markets. Historically, these markets have tended to be less volatile than in other parts of the country. Management believes the diversity and nature of the Bank&#8217;s markets has a mitigating effect on real estate loan losses in these markets. 

From time to time, the Company evaluates the potential acquisition of various financial institutions. In addition, the Company regularly considers the potential disposition of certain assets and branches. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management and either possess significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale and expanded services. The Company's latest acquisition was Summit Bancshares Inc. (Summit) in 2013. The Company's acquisition of Summit added $261.6 million &#32;in assets (including $207.4 million &#32;in loans), $232.3 million &#32;in deposits and two &#32;branch locations in Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 

Employees 

The Company employed 4,391 persons on a full-time basis and 468 persons on a part-time basis at December 31, 2015 . The Company provides a variety of benefit programs including a 401(k) savings plan with a company matching contribution, as well as group life, health, accident, and other insurance. The Company also maintains training and educational programs designed to address the significant and changing regulations facing the financial services industry and prepare employees for positions of increasing responsibility. None of the Company's employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. 

Competition 

The Company faces intense competition from hundreds of financial service providers in its markets and around the United States. It competes with national and state banks for deposits, loans and trust accounts, and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for deposits and consumer lending products. In addition, the Company competes with other financial 

intermediaries such as securities brokers and dealers, personal loan companies, insurance companies, finance companies, and certain governmental agencies. Some of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies. The Company generally competes by providing sophisticated financial products with a strong commitment to customer service, convenience of locations, reputation, and price of service, including interest rates on loan and deposit products. The Company has approximately 13% of the deposit market share in Kansas City and approximately 9% of the deposit market share in St. Louis. 

Operating Segments 

The Company is managed in three operating segments. The Consumer segment includes the retail branch network, consumer installment lending, personal mortgage banking, and consumer debit and credit bank card activities. It provides services through a network of 191 full-service branches, a widespread ATM network of 387 machines, and the use of alternative delivery channels such as extensive online banking, mobile, and telephone banking services. In 2015 , this retail segment contributed 21% &#32;of total segment pre-tax income. The Commercial segment provides a full array of corporate lending, merchant and commercial bank card products, leasing, and international services, as well as business and government deposit and cash management services. Fixed-income investments are sold to individuals and institutional investors through the Capital Markets Group, which is also included in this segment. In 2015 , the Commercial segment contributed 60% &#32;of total segment pre-tax income. The Wealth segment provides traditional trust and estate planning services, brokerage services, and advisory and discretionary investment portfolio management services to both personal and institutional corporate customers. At December 31, 2015 , the Trust group managed investments with a market value of $22.6 billion and administered an additional $15.8 billion in non-managed assets. This segment also manages the Company&#8217;s family of proprietary mutual funds, which are available for sale to both trust and general retail customers. Additional information relating to operating segments can be found on pages 48 and 93. 

Government Policies 

The Company's operations are affected by federal and state legislative changes, by the United States government, and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states in which they operate. These include, for example, the statutory minimum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies, the U.S. Patriot Act, and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following information summarizes existing laws and regulations that materially affect the Company's operations. It does not discuss all provisions of these laws and regulations, and it does not include all laws and regulations that affect the Company presently or may affect the Company in the future. 

General 

The Company, as a bank holding company, is primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s prior approval is required in any case in which the Company proposes to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, or merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. With certain exceptions, the BHC Act also prohibits the Company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any non-banking company. Under the BHC Act, the Company may not engage in any business other than managing and controlling banks or furnishing certain specified services to subsidiaries and may not acquire voting control of non-banking companies unless the Federal Reserve Board determines such businesses and services to be closely related to banking. When reviewing bank acquisition applications for approval, the Federal Reserve Board considers, among other things, the Bank&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities it serves in accordance with the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA). Under the terms of the CRA, banks have a continuing obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income areas. The Bank has a current CRA rating of &#8220;outstanding&#8221;. 

The Company is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board various reports and additional information the Federal Reserve Board may require. The Federal Reserve Board also makes regular examinations of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company&#8217;s banking subsidiary is a state chartered Federal Reserve member bank and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and the State of Missouri Division of Finance. The Bank is also subject to regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). In addition, there are numerous other federal and state laws and regulations which control the activities of the Company and the Bank, including requirements and limitations relating to capital and reserve requirements, permissible investments and lines of business, transactions with affiliates, loan limits, mergers and acquisitions, issuance of securities, dividend payments, and extensions of credit. The Bank is subject to a number of federal and 

state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts. If the Company fails to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, it may be subject to civil monetary penalties, imposition of cease and desist orders or other written directives, removal of management and, in certain circumstances, criminal penalties. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the preservation of the federal deposit insurance funds, not for the protection of security holders. Statutory and regulatory controls increase a bank holding company&#8217;s cost of doing business and limit the options of its management to employ assets and maximize income. 

In addition to its regulatory powers, the Federal Reserve Bank affects the conditions under which the Company operates by its influence over the national supply of bank credit. The Federal Reserve Board employs open market operations in U.S. government securities and oversees changes in the discount rate on bank borrowings, changes in the federal funds rate on overnight inter-bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits in implementing its monetary policy objectives. These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits, the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets, and the level of inflation. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions, most notably on the interest rate environment. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, as well as the effect of credit policies of monetary and fiscal authorities, no prediction can be made as to possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels or loan demand, or their effect on the financial statements of the Company. 

The financial industry operates under laws and regulations that are under constant review by various agencies and legislatures and are subject to sweeping change. The Company currently operates as a bank holding company, as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (GLB Act), and the Bank qualifies as a financial subsidiary under the Act, which allows it to engage in investment banking, insurance agency, brokerage, and underwriting activities that were not available to banks prior to the GLB Act. The GLB Act also included privacy provisions that limit banks&#8217; abilities to disclose non-public information about customers to non-affiliated entities. 

The Company must also comply with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). The BSA is designed to help fight drug trafficking, money laundering, and other crimes. Compliance is monitored by the Federal Reserve. The BSA was enacted to prevent banks and other financial service providers from being used as intermediaries for, or to hide the transfer or deposit of money derived from, criminal activity. Since its passage, the BSA has been amended several times. These amendments include the Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 which made money laundering a criminal act, as well as the Money Laundering Suppression Act of 1994 which required regulators to develop enhanced examination procedures and increased examiner training to improve the identification of money laundering schemes in financial institutions. 

The USA PATRIOT Act, established in 2001, substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The regulations include significant penalties for non-compliance. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2011 (Dodd-Frank Act) was sweeping legislation intended to overhaul regulation of the financial services industry. Among its many provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act established a new council of &#8220;systemic risk&#8221; regulators, empowers the Federal Reserve to supervise the largest, most complex financial companies, allows the government to seize and liquidate failing financial companies, and gives regulators new powers to oversee the derivatives market. The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and authorized it to supervise certain consumer financial services companies and large depository institutions and their affiliates for consumer protection purposes. Subject to the provisions of the Act, the CFPB has responsibility to implement, examine for compliance with, and enforce &#8220;Federal consumer financial law.&#8221; As a depository institution, the Company is subject to examinations by the CFPB, which focus on the Company&#8217;s ability to detect, prevent, and correct practices that present a significant risk of violating the law and causing consumer harm. Title VI of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, placed trading restrictions on financial institutions and separated investment banking, private equity and proprietary trading (hedge fund) sections of financial institutions from their consumer lending arms. Key provisions restrict banks from simultaneously entering into advisory and creditor roles with their clients, such as with private equity firms. The Volcker Rule also restricts financial institutions from investing in and sponsoring certain types of investments, which must be divested by July 21, 2016. The Federal Reserve has announced its intention to grant an additional one-year extension to July 21, 2017. The Company does not believe it will be significantly affected by the Volcker Rule provisions. However, the Company was required to develop new policies and procedures to ensure ongoing compliance with the Volcker Rule which resulted in additional operating and compliance costs. 

Subsidiary Bank 

Under Federal Reserve policy, the bank holding company, Commerce Bancshares, Inc. (the "Parent"), is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiary and to commit resources to support it in circumstances when it might not otherwise do so. In addition, loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Deposit Insurance 

Substantially all of the deposits of the Bank are insured up to the applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, generally up to $250,000 per depositor, for each account ownership category. The Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC for Deposit Insurance Fund member institutions. The FDIC classifies institutions under a risk-based assessment system based on their perceived risk to the federal deposit insurance funds. The current assessment base is defined as average total assets minus average tangible equity, with other adjustments for heavy use of unsecured liabilities, secured liabilities, brokered deposits, and holdings of unsecured bank debt. For banks with more than $10 billion in assets, the FDIC uses a scorecard designed to measure financial performance and ability to withstand stress, in addition to measuring the FDIC&#8217;s exposure should the bank fail. FDIC insurance expense also includes assessments to fund the interest on outstanding bonds issued in the 1980s in connection with the failures in the thrift industry. The Company's FDIC insurance expense was $12.1 million &#32;in 2015 , $11.6 million &#32;in 2014 , and $11.2 million &#32;in 2013 . 

Payment of Dividends 

The Federal Reserve Board may prohibit the payment of cash dividends to shareholders by bank holding companies if their actions constitute unsafe or unsound practices. The principal source of the Parent's cash revenues is cash dividends paid by the Bank. The amount of dividends paid by the Bank in any calendar year is limited to the net profit of the current year combined with the retained net profits of the preceding two years, and permission must be obtained from the Federal Reserve Board for dividends exceeding these amounts. The payment of dividends by the Bank may also be affected by factors such as the maintenance of adequate capital. 

Capital Adequacy 

The Company is required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, which are based on the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to judgments by regulators regarding qualitative components, risk weightings, and other factors. 

In July 2013, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board approved a final rule to implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. A key goal of the Basel III agreement is to strengthen the capital resources of banking organizations during normal and challenging business environments. The Basel III final rule increases minimum requirements for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. The rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. The capital conservation buffer, which will be phased in during 2016-2019, is intended to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Failure to maintain the buffer will result in constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and executive compensation. The final rule also adjusted the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity. Beginning January 1, 2015, the Company was compliant with revised minimum regulatory capital ratios and began the transitional period for definitions of regulatory capital and regulatory capital adjustments and deductions established under the final rule. The Company was also compliant with the required risk-weighted asset calculations effective January 1, 2015. At December 31, 2015 , the Company met all capital adequacy requirements under Basel III on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements had been in effect. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA) requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured depository institutions, including but not limited to those that fall below one or more prescribed minimum capital ratios. Pursuant to FDICIA, the FDIC promulgated regulations defining the following five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA, an insured depository institution generally will be classified as well-capitalized (under the Basel III rules mentioned above) if it has a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 

6.5%, a Total capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. An institution that, based upon its capital levels, is classified as &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. At each successive lower capital category, an insured depository institution is subject to more restrictions and prohibitions, including restrictions on growth, restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, restrictions or prohibitions on payment of dividends and restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits. Furthermore, if a bank is classified in one of the undercapitalized categories, it is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the federal bank regulator, and the holding company must guarantee the performance of that plan. The Bank has consistently maintained regulatory capital ratios at or above the &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; standards. 

Stress Testing 

In October 2012, the Federal Reserve, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, approved new stress testing regulations applicable to certain financial companies with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion. The rule requires that these financial companies, including the Company, conduct annual stress tests based on factors provided by the Federal Reserve, supplemented by institution-specific factors. The Company submitted its first regulatory report on its stress test results to the Federal Reserve in March 2014, and in June 2015, the Company made its first public disclosure of the results of the 2015 stress tests performed under the severely adverse scenario. In 2016, the Company will submit its stress test results to the Federal Reserve in July and will disclose the results to the public in October. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

Guidelines adopted by federal banking agencies prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. The Federal Reserve Board has issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies do not undermine safety and soundness by encouraging excessive risk taking. This guidance covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, based on key principles that (i) incentives do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization's ability to identify and manage risk, (ii) compensation arrangements are compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) compensation arrangements are supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective board oversight. Deficiencies in compensation practices may affect supervisory ratings and enforcement actions may be taken if incentive compensation arrangements pose a risk to safety and soundness. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

The Federal Reserve Board regulates transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries. Generally, the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, limit the Company&#8217;s banking subsidiary and its subsidiaries, to lending and other &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with affiliates. The aggregate amount of covered transactions a banking subsidiary or its subsidiaries may enter into with an affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. 

Covered transactions with affiliates are also subject to collateralization requirements and must be conducted on arm&#8217;s length terms. Covered transactions include (a) a loan or extension of credit by the banking subsidiary, including derivative contracts, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking subsidiary, (c) a purchase of assets by the banking subsidiary unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve, (d) acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. 

Certain transactions with our directors, officers or controlling persons are also subject to conflicts of interest regulations. Among other things, these regulations require that loans to such persons and their related interests be made on terms substantially the same as for loans to unaffiliated individuals and must not create an abnormal risk of repayment or other unfavorable features for the financial institution. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on loans to related parties. 

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s principal offices are located at 1000 Walnut, Kansas City, Missouri (telephone number 816-234-2000). The Company makes available free of charge, through its Web site at www.commercebank.com, reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing. These filings include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports. 

Statistical Disclosure 

The information required by Securities Act Guide 3 &#8212; &#8220;Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies&#8221; is located on the pages noted below. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Page 

I. 

&#160; 

Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential 

22, 54-57 

II. 

&#160; 

Investment Portfolio 

38-39, 78-82 

III. 

&#160; 

Loan Portfolio 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Types of Loans 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Risk Elements 

33-37 

IV. 

&#160; 

Summary of Loan Loss Experience 

31-33 

V. 

&#160; 

Deposits 

54, 84 

VI. 

&#160; 

Return on Equity and Assets 

VII. 

&#160; 

Short-Term Borrowings 

