 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

ChemoCentryx is a biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and commercializing orally-administered therapeutics to treat orphan and rare diseases, autoimmune diseases, inflammatory disorders and cancer. Our approach has been to target the chemoattractant system, a network of molecules including chemokine ligands and their associated receptors, as well as related chemoattractant receptors. 

Chemokine ligands and their associated receptors, as well as related chemoattractant receptors are known to cause inflammation. Chemokine ligands concentrate at the site of an inflammatory event, serving as signals that attract and guide inflammatory cells to the tissue, where, based on the chemokine ligand and receptor combination, a specific inflammatory response is initiated. 

Expression of chemokines and their receptors play a dual role in the ability of cells to give rise to either benign or malignant progressively growing tumors. On the one hand, chemokines secreted by either the cancer-initiating cells or the normal cells surrounding them can help limit tumor development by increasing leukocyte migration toward the site, and inducing long-term anti-tumor immunity. On the other hand, they may facilitate survival, proliferation, and metastatic potential of tumor cells. The initially secreted chemokines at the tumor site play a key role defining the composition of the connective tissue and recruiting tumor infiltrating white blood cells bearing specific chemokine receptors. 

Tumor cells are able to hijack the chemokine receptor/chemokine system for their own benefit. They &#147;convert&#148; infiltrating leukocytes into immuno-tolerant allies, since they are able to (1) attract suppressor T-cells and neutrophils, (2) hijack immature dendritic cells, avoiding their migration toward the lymph nodes and therefore antigen presentation, favoring a tolerogenic profile, and (3) participate in the recruitment and induction of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. 

In certain diseases, discrete chemokine receptors that play a specific role in the pathology of interest have been identified, and the therapeutic goal is to specifically inhibit that receptor to provide clinical benefit. Accordingly, each of our drug candidates is a small molecule designed to target a specific chemokine or chemoattractant receptor, thereby blocking the negative inflammatory or suppressive response driven by that particular receptor, while leaving the rest of the immune system intact. Using our pioneering insights and proprietary technologies designed to better understand the chemoattractant system, we believe that we have established the broadest pipeline of novel drug candidates targeting chemoattractant receptors. Our compounds are designed to be highly potent, selective to minimize the risk of off-target effects and generally orally-available for improved patient compliance. As small molecules, they are also easier and less costly to manufacture than protein therapeutics, or biologics. 

Our pipeline comprises the following programs: 

Orphan and Rare Diseases: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CCX168 is an orally-administered complement inhibitor targeting the C5a receptor (C5aR) and is being developed for orphan and rare diseases, including anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, or ANCA, associated vasculitis, or AAV, atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, or aHUS, and immunoglobulin A-mediated nephropathy, or IgAN. CCX168 has successfully completed and reported positive clinical data from the first Phase II clinical trial in patients with AAV, known as the CLEAR trial. This study met its primary endpoint whereby treatment with CCX168 demonstrated numerical superiority and statistical non-inferiority in Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score, or BVAS, response relative to standard of care. The second Phase II clinical trial in patients with AAV, the CLASSIC trial, is ongoing in North America and we expect to report top-line data from this trial in mid 2016. Following CLASSIC data in mid 2016, we plan to conduct end-of-Phase II meetings with regulatory 

&#160; 

&#160; agencies and initiate the Phase III development program in patients with AAV by the end of 2016. Phase II pilot clinical trials with CCX168 in patients with aHUS and IgAN are ongoing. 

Immuno-Oncology: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CCX872 is being evaluated in patients with non-resectable pancreatic cancer, and is our second inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR2. CCX872 completed Phase I clinical development in healthy volunteers. A Phase Ib clinical trial in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer is ongoing. Having recently presented pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic, or PK, data from the first step of the study, we expect to report early objective response rate, or ORR, data in the first half of 2016 and initial progression free survival, or PFS, data in the second half of 2016. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Chemoattractant Receptor Targets &#151; CCR1, CCR4, CCR5, CXCR2, CXCR7 &#151; We believe these chemokine and chemoattractant receptors play an important role in establishing a tumor microenvironment that suppresses a cytotoxic immune response. We have discovered small molecule inhibitors targeting these chemoattractant receptors, which may be developed in certain oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. We believe that such immunotherapeutic agents could be administered as stand-alone therapies or result in a synergistic effect when given in combination with traditional chemotherapies or other immunotherapies, such as programmed cell death protein 1, or PD-1/programmed death ligand 1, or PD-L1 antibodies. 

Chronic Kidney Disease: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CCX140 is an inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR2 (distinct from CCX872 above) and is being developed as an orally administered therapy for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, or DN, a form of chronic kidney disease. We have successfully completed and reported positive data from a Phase II clinical trial in patients with DN. The trial met its primary endpoint by demonstrating that treatment with 5mg of CCX140 given orally once daily added to a standard of care angiotensin converting enzyme, or ACE, inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker, or ARB treatment resulted in a statistically significant improvement in urinary albumin to creatinine ratio, or UACR, beyond that achieved with standard of care alone. We are preparing to conduct an end-of-Phase II meeting with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. 

Other Inflammatory and Autoimmune Diseases: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Th-17 cell-driven inflammation and CCR6 &#151; Th-17 driven cells have been implicated in a variety of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, and asthma. Th-17 cells express high levels of the chemokine receptor known as CCR6, which induces their migration to and activation within disease sites. We have a preclinical program in the inhibition of CCR6 which has produced several unique CCR6 inhibitor leads that are now being optimized through medicinal chemistry approaches, which we plan to advance to a clinical candidate. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Vercirnon (also known as Traficet-EN, or CCX282) is an inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR9, and being developed as an orally administered therapy for the treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn&#146;s disease. Vercirnon is ready to continue development in Phase III with a partner, should an alliance partner be identified for this program. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CCX507 is our second generation CCR9 inhibitor for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, or IBD. CCX507 has successfully completed Phase I clinical development, which demonstrated that CCX507 was safe and well-tolerated, and blocked CCR9 on circulating leukocytes. We also presented preclinical data with CCX507 in combination with an anti- &#097; 4&#223;7 or anti-TNF antibody showing combined treatment reduced the severity of colitis better than monotherapy with either drug alone. 

&#160; 

All of our drug candidates are wholly owned and being developed independently by us. Our strategy also includes identification of next generation compounds related to our drug candidates, all of which have been internally discovered. 

We have developed a suite of proprietary technologies, which we call the EnabaLink drug discovery engine, to better understand the chemoattractant system and to accelerate the identification of small molecule lead compounds that target and inhibit the function of specific chemokine receptors. We believe this platform provides us with an advantage in the rapid identification of highly specific drug candidates. An important element of this platform is our thorough map of the chemokine network, which allows us to better understand how a given chemokine-chemokine receptor interaction impacts the migration of cells in a given disease. With this understanding, we can apply our advanced screening methodologies, including a purpose-built high-throughput robotic screening technology, known as the Reverse Activation of Migration, or RAM, assay, to identify small molecule inhibitors for the chemokine receptor most closely associated with a specific disease. The RAM assay is designed to markedly reduce or eliminate non-specific inhibitors and toxic inhibitors of cell migration, resulting in highly specific lead candidates. This technology allows us to screen against targets that are not easily accessible with traditional technologies, providing us with what we believe to be a competitive advantage in drug discovery. We have used our EnabaLink drug discovery engine in our drug candidate programs and continue to apply these powerful research tools in our early stage drug discovery efforts. 

Our Broad and Deep Wholly Owned Pipeline 

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

* Also known as CCX282 or Traficet-EN. Orphan and Rare Diseases 

In our orphan and rare disease program, our lead drug candidate is CCX168. CCX168 is a small molecule that targets the chemoattractant receptor known as C5aR, and is being developed for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. CCX168 blocks the activity of complement C5a, a component of the complement system and the natural ligand for C5aR. The complement system is a group of proteins that work together to destroy foreign invaders (such as bacteria and viruses), trigger inflammation, and remove debris from cells and tissues. The complement system must be carefully regulated so it targets only unwanted materials and does not attack the body&#146;s healthy cells. 

In the United States, under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA has granted orphan drug designation for CCX168 for the treatment of AAV, including granulomatosis with polyangiitis or Wegener&#146;s granulomatosis, microscopic polyangiitis, and Churg-Strauss syndrome. The European Commission granted orphan drug designation for CCX168 for the treatment of granulomatosis with polyangiitis or Wegener&#146;s granulomatosis and microscopic polyangiitis. 

&#160; 

Our most advanced clinical program in orphan and rare diseases is in patients with AAV. We also have pilot clinical trials that are ongoing in patients with aHUS and IgAN. 

AAV, aHUS, and IgAN are all rare autoimmune diseases that are characterized by inflammation that often affects the kidneys. 

ANCA-Associated Vasculitis (AAV) 

AAV is a rare, severe, and often fatal autoimmune disease that is caused by autoantibodies called anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies and is characterized by inflammation that can affect many different organ systems, and commonly involves the kidneys. 

AAV affects approximately 40,000 people in the United States, with approximately 4,000 new cases each year, and more than 75,000 people in Europe, with at least 7,500 new cases each year. 

Limitations of Current Therapies 

AAV is currently treated with courses of immuno-suppressants (cyclophosphamide, or CYC, or rituximab, or RTX) combined with high dose glucocorticoid (steroid) administration. Following initial treatment, up to 30% of patients relapse within six to 18 months, and approximately 50% of all patients will relapse within three to five years. 

The current standard of care for AAV is associated with significant safety issues. First year mortality is approximately 11% to 18%. The single greatest cause of premature mortality is not disease related adverse events, but rather infection that is thought largely to be a consequence of steroid administration. The multiple adverse effects of courses of steroid treatment (both initial courses and those that are repeated as a consequence of relapse) are major causes of both short-term and long-term disease and death. Such therapy-related adverse events contribute significantly to patient care costs, as well as to the diminution of quality of life for patients. 

Role of C5a and C5aR in AAV 

Complement C5a, acting through its receptor C5aR, is thought to play a pro-inflammatory role in AAV. Autoantibodies lead to the activation and increased adhesiveness of neutrophils to the walls of small blood vessels in different tissues and organs of the body. These accumulating adhering neutrophils initiate an inflammatory cascade in the small blood vessels by secreting pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemoattractants. Activation of the complement pathway occurs with production of C5a, one of the most potent pro-inflammatory mediators of the complement system. C5a, through binding to its receptor C5aR, induces expression of adhesion molecules and chemotactic migration of neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, and monocytes. 

A Novel C5a Receptor Inhibitor CCX168 

CCX168 is a potent and highly specific inhibitor of the human C5a receptor. CCX168 is orally bioavailable and has demonstrated an excellent preclinical safety profile, consistent with its intended chronic use in patients. CCX168 does not affect formation of the C5b-9 terminal complement complex (or membrane attack complex), unlike the anti-C5-antibody, eculizumab. Therefore, CCX168 is believed not to increase the susceptibility to infections such as Neisseria meningitides . 

The efficacy of CCX168 was demonstrated in a mouse model of the renal manifestations of AAV, which closely mimics many of the histological features of the human disease. In these studies, oral doses of CCX168 completely blocked the glomerulonephritis induced by intravenous injection of anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies 

&#160; 

(one of the anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies that are implicated in AAV in humans). Levels of CCX168 in the blood of these mice were comparable to levels in the blood of patients participating in our Phase II CLEAR clinical trial with CCX168 in patients with AAV. 

Clinical Development 

CCX168 Phase I Clinical Trials 

We have completed two Phase I clinical trials with CCX168 in a total of 54 healthy subjects. The first was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period clinical trial in which subjects received either CCX168 or placebo, as a single dose in the first period and as multiple once-daily or twice-daily oral doses in the second period. Single oral doses of 1mg, 3mg, 10mg, 30mg, and 100mg of CCX168 were studied. In the second period, CCX168 doses of 1mg, 3mg, and 10mg once-daily for seven days, and 30mg and 50mg twice-daily for seven days, were studied. CCX168 was well-tolerated by clinical trial subjects in this clinical trial and no serious adverse events, or SAEs, or withdrawals due to adverse events have been observed. The most commonly reported adverse events in subjects receiving CCX168 in the multi-dose period were headache, diarrhea, dizziness, lower abdominal pain, nausea, and sore throat. These adverse events typically were mild and dosing was not stopped as a result. In the second Phase I clinical trial in six healthy male subjects, the way CCX168 was metabolized in the body was studied after a single oral dose of 100mg CCX168. CCX168 was well-tolerated in this study. 

CCX168 Phase II Clinical Trial 

We have completed the first Phase II clinical trial in 63 evaluable patients with AAV in Europe, known as the CLEAR trial. CLEAR was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in patients with AAV. The aim of this trial was to provide effective therapy for AAV with an inhibitor of the C5a receptor while reducing toxicity associated with standard of care therapy by eliminating or reducing exposure to high dose systemic steroid use. The primary safety objective of this clinical trial was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CCX168 in patients with AAV on background CYC or RTX treatment. The primary efficacy objective was to evaluate the efficacy of CCX168 based on the BVAS. BVAS measures AAV disease activity across all organ systems and is the most widely used and clinically validated outcome measure in AAV clinical trials. The higher the BVAS score, the higher the level of disease activity. The greater the reduction in BVAS score with treatment, the greater the disease improvement. The secondary objectives of this clinical trial included assessment of the feasibility of reducing or eliminating the use of steroids in the treatment of patients with AAV without the need for rescue steroid measures; evaluation of the PK profile of CCX168 in patients with AAV; and assessment of changes in renal function based on estimated glomerular filtration rate, or eGFR, hematuria, and proteinuria with CCX168 compared to standard of care treatment. 

The CLEAR trial met its primary endpoint based on the BVAS response at week 12 in patients receiving CCX168, compared to those patients receiving the high dose steroid-containing standard of care. Specifically, all treatment groups receiving CCX168 demonstrated a statistically significant (P=0.002) non-inferior clinical efficacy outcome when compared to standard of care. The study contained two CCX168 treated groups: one group which received CCX168 with a low dose of steroids (one third the steroid in the standard of care group), in which the BVAS response was 86% at week 12 versus 70% for standard of care; P=0.002 for non-inferiority. A separate group received CCX168 without steroids; in this group the response was 81% (P=0.01 for non-inferiority). Following adjudication of BVAS data from the follow-up period, the previously reported BVAS response of 75% for the standard of care group was found to be 70% and the resulting P-values were revised accordingly. The BVAS response data for the CCX168 groups remain unchanged. The revised P-values are presented above. Standard of care treatment included a placebo to CCX168, and all treatment groups received a standard background immunosuppressant (CYC or RTX) as well. The primary endpoint of BVAS response was prospectively defined as the proportion of patients with a decrease from baseline of at least 50% in BVAS plus no worsening in any body system. 

&#160; 

Other beneficial changes were noted, including in pre-specified secondary endpoints: 

&#160;

&#160; 1) CCX168 exhibited a more rapid onset of improvement than standard of care treatment, as evidenced by beneficial changes in proteinuria (measured as UACR); also rapid beneficial reductions from baseline in BVAS, as well as reductions in the levels of MCP-1 (a marker of kidney inflammation) found in the urine; &#160;

&#160; 2) improvements in eGFR and hematuria were seen in all three treatment groups, indicating these disease activities did not require high dose chronic steroid administration to be controlled; and &#160;

&#160; 3) improvements in &#147;Quality of Life&#148; (as defined by the visual analogue scale of the EuroQOL-5D-5L) and measurements based on the Short Form-36 were seen in CCX168 treatment groups, but not in the standard of care group. Taken together, these results suggest that CCX168, a target-specific complement inhibitor, may be able to replace chronic steroids in the treatment of AAV with at least equal efficacy. CCX168 also appeared safe and well-tolerated in the trial. There were no observations that would prevent further clinical development of CCX168. We also recently completed the long-term toxicology program with CCX168. The results provide support for chronic dosing of CCX168 in future clinical trials. 

A second Phase II clinical trial, the CLASSIC trial, is ongoing in North America. CLASSIC is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled Phase II clinical trial in patients with either newly diagnosed or relapsing AAV who require either CYC or RTX treatment. Eligible patients are randomized in a 1: 1:1 ratio to receive either placebo plus CYC or RTX plus full dose starting steroids; 10mg CCX168 twice daily plus CYC or RTX plus full dose starting steroids; or 30mg CCX168 twice daily plus CYC or RTX plus full dose starting steroids. The treatment period is 12 weeks, with a 12-week follow-up period. The aim of the CLASSIC trial is different from the CLEAR trial. The CLASSIC trial is mainly a regulatory and safety trial. As such, the main goal of CLASSIC is to evaluate the safety of CCX168 when given with high dose steroid-containing standard of care treatment, which also includes CYC or RTX. Therefore, the primary safety objective of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CCX168 in patients with AAV on background CYC or RTX treatment. The primary efficacy objective is to evaluate the efficacy of CCX168 based on BVAS. A total of 42 patients have been enrolled in this trial. 

Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS) 

aHUS is a genetic, chronic, rare disease that is caused by the formation of blood clots within small blood vessels, or thrombosis, throughout the body. aHUS affects both adults and children and can progressively damage vital organs, including the kidneys, but also other organs such as the brain, heart, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas. These clots can cause serious medical problems if they restrict or block blood flow. 

As a result of clot formation in small blood vessels, people with aHUS experience kidney damage and acute kidney failure that lead to end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, in about half of all cases. These life-threatening complications prevent the kidneys from filtering plasma and eliminating waste products from the body effectively. 

Limitations of Current Therapies 

Current aHUS treatment has limited efficacy or is very expensive, and as a result, is not a practical option for many patients with aHUS. 

Plasma exchange or infusion has decreased mortality from 50% to 25% in patients with aHUS. In patients with complement factor H, or CFH, mutations, plasma exchange or infusion resulted in partial or complete remission in approximately 60% of patients. Plasma exchange with immunosuppressive therapy such as steroids and azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil and RTX resulted in long-term dialysis-free survival in 60% to 70% 

&#160; 

of patients. Patients may become non-responsive to plasma exchange or infusion. It is also debatable whether renal transplantation is appropriate for patients with aHUS with ESRD as the disease recurs in approximately 50% of patients after transplantation, and graft failure occurs in 80% to 90% with recurrent disease. 

Eculizumab (Soliris) has been approved by the FDA for treatment of patients with aHUS to inhibit complement-mediated thrombotic microangiopathy. Eculizumab treatment improves the disease based on platelet count, lactate dehydrogenase, hemoglobin, and serum creatinine levels, and need for plasma exchange, infusion, or dialysis. Eculizumab is an anti-C5 antibody, designed to block the conversion of C5 to C5a and C5b. Eculizumab needs to be administered by frequent intravenous infusion, is associated with an increased risk of Neisseria infections, and can cost approximately $500,000 per year in the United States. 

Role of C5a and C5aR in aHUS 

aHUS often results from a combination of environmental and genetic factors. The genes associated with aHUS provide instructions for making proteins involved in regulating the complement system. In aHUS, the regulatory proteins that prevent uncontrolled activation of the complement system are defective due to gene mutations. The resulting uncontrolled activation of the complement system, including uncontrolled production of the anaphylatoxin C5a, results in damage to the vasculature and organs such as the kidneys. 

The fact that C5a and its receptor C5aR play a role in the pathogenesis of aHUS is supported by studies in mice. Mice deficient in CFH develop proliferative glomerulonephritis, which is improved in mice where both the CFH and C5aR genes are deleted. Mice lacking C5aR were significantly protected from functional renal disease as assessed by blood urea nitrogen levels. This is relevant as loss-of-function CFH mutations are relatively common in humans with aHUS. In addition, C5a can prime neutrophils and enhance neutrophil activation. C5a, acting on C5aR, is a potent neutrophil chemoattractant and agonist, which triggers neutrophil aggregation. Further, C5a activates endothelial cells, promoting retraction and increased permeability. 

CCX168, as a potent and specific inhibitor of C5aR, may therefore be effective in the treatment of patients with aHUS. Compared to intravenously administered eculizumab, CCX168 is a convenient, orally administered treatment. CCX168 blocks the effect of C5a without compromising the formation of the C5b-9 terminal complement complex (or membrane attack complex), which is important in fighting Neisseria infections. Since CCX168 is a small molecule, manufacturing cost is anticipated to be lower than the protein-based drugs such as eculizumab. As a small molecule, CCX168 has a shorter plasma half-life (terminal half-life is approximately 70 hours) than eculizumab (272 hours, according to eculizumab prescribing information). Therefore, in the event of an undesirable adverse event requiring discontinuation of treatment, plasma clearance would be faster with CCX168. 

Clinical Development 

In collaboration with external scientists, we have demonstrated that CCX168, when added to the serum of patients with aHUS, reduces the size of thrombus (blood clot) formation on vascular endothelial cells that has been stimulated by the aHUS serum. The positive effect of CCX168 was concentration dependent, and the magnitude of the effect was similar to that observed with eculizumab or soluble complement receptor 1. 

Based on these encouraging in vitro findings, we have commenced a Phase II pilot clinical trial with CCX168 in up to ten patients with aHUS who are on dialysis. The primary efficacy objective of the trial is to evaluate whether treatment with CCX168 may reduce thrombosis formation in chronic dialysis patients with aHUS. We, through our external collaborator, plan to report early results from this proof-of-concept trial in 2016. 

Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy (IgAN) 

IgAN is a form of glomerulonephritis, or inflammation of the filtration units of the kidneys called glomeruli. The damage caused by IgAN results from abnormal deposits of immunoglobulin A, or IgA, complexes in the glomeruli. This immune complex deposition is associated with complement activation. 

&#160; 

One of the kidney&#146;s most important jobs is to filter toxic waste products, such as creatinine, from the blood, and the glomeruli play a key role in this process. As more glomeruli are damaged by the IgA immune complexes, protein is spilled into the urine, and the kidney progressively loses its ability to clear waste products from the body. In some patients with IgAN, this loss of kidney function progresses to chronic kidney failure, which requires dialysis treatment or a kidney transplant. 

Limitations of Current Therapies 

Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, or RAAS, blockers such as ACE inhibitors and ARBs are recommended when proteinuria is higher than 0.5g per day. Doses are titrated up to achieve blood pressure below 130/80 mmHg in patients with proteinuria less than 1g per day and below 125/75 mmHg if proteinuria is higher than 1g per day. Steroids are used in patients with persistent proteinuria higher than 1g per day despite optimal RAAS blockade. Immunosuppressive treatment with CYC or azathioprine is not recommended unless there is crescentic IgAN with deteriorating kidney function. Fish oil is also used. RAAS blockers have limited efficacy. Steroids are associated with an increased risk of infection and other adverse effects including osteoporosis, cataracts, peptic ulcer disease, new onset hypertension and diabetes, and mental disturbances. Immunosuppressive treatment such as with CYC is associated with an increased risk of infertility, cystitis, and cancer. Therefore, there exists an unmet medical need for safe and effective therapies for patients with IgAN. 

Role of C5a and C5aR in IgAN 

IgAN is an autoimmune disease in which auto-antibodies are inappropriately made against IgA. The immunoglobulin immune complexes are deposited in the glomeruli of the kidney, and may lead to activation of the complement system and production of C5a. The end result is kidney inflammation which leads to inappropriate spilling of protein in the urine, and impairment of the ability of the kidney to filter the blood of waste products such as creatinine. Consequently, this can ultimately lead to kidney failure and dialysis. 

As a potent and specific inhibitor of C5aR, CCX168 may be effective in treating patients with IgAN. Because of its unique mechanism of action, CCX168 has the potential to be synergistic to RAAS blockade, and could also potentially reduce the dosing requirements for steroids as well as immunosuppressive drugs. 

Clinical Development 

We have an ongoing Phase II pilot study with CCX168 in up to 20 patients with IgAN who have residual proteinuria (protein in the urine) despite being on a stable maximum tolerated dose of a RAAS inhibitor for at least eight weeks. The objective of the trial is to evaluate whether treatment with CCX168 may be synergistic to RAAS blockade, and potentially improve proteinuria in patients with IgAN. 

CCX168 Commercialization Strategy 

We plan to develop CCX168 independently or in the context of a co-development partnership and retain meaningful commercial rights to CCX168 in certain orphan indications such as AAV, aHUS, and IgAN. CCX168 is one of the two compounds in our renal disease portfolio and an integral part of our forward integration plan. 

Immuno-Oncology 

In oncologic disease, tumors can profoundly subvert inflammatory and effector immune responses. In the tumor cellular microenvironment, CCR2 bearing cells are thought to largely have an immunosuppressive behavior. These are the so-called myeloid derived suppressor cells, or MDSCs. These cells effectively help tumors hide from the body&#146;s cytotoxic immune response to tumor cells. Inhibiting CCR2, and thus the MDSCs controlled by CCR2, could therefore lead to the liberation of the cytotoxic immune response against the tumor 

&#160; 

cells, tumor shrinkage, and improved patient survival. We have an ongoing clinical development program for the treatment of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer with our drug candidate CCX872, our second inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR2. 

Understanding Pancreatic Cancer 

Pancreatic cancer is a rare but deadly cancer. It is the 15th most common cancer worldwide but the fourth highest cause of cancer-related death. In the United States in 2014, approximately 46,000 people are expected to develop pancreatic cancer, and 40,000 of those patients are expected to succumb to the disease. Primarily due to the aging of the population, the incidence of pancreatic cancer is predicted to increase to 62,000 new cases per year by 2030. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma, which represents 85% of all pancreatic cancers, is characterized by rapid progression and a dismal prognosis. Because of the deep location of the pancreas in the abdomen and the lack of markers of early disease, most cancers remain asymptomatic until they obstruct the biliary tract, which usually occurs with tumors of the pancreatic head, or until they become metastatic. Hence, less than 15% of patients initially present with a resectable cancer (stage 1 or 2), while the majority of patients have either a locally advanced, nonresectable, stage 3 cancer or a metastatic, stage 4 cancer at the time of diagnosis. Even with the best current treatment, the median overall survival of these patients is less than one year, an outlook that has remained largely unchanged over the last few decades. 

The dismal prognosis of this cancer results from the combination of the late diagnosis, the early metastatic dissemination, and resistance to most chemotherapies. The main factors explaining this resistance to treatment include a very high rate of activation of the Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene, or KRAS, mutations, a propensity for both local extension and distal spreading, the presence of a dense stromal tissue surrounding the tumor that results in a hypoxic, hypovascularized environment with high interstitial pressure, which may impede drug delivery, and ultimately the loss of immune control. Therapeutic interventions that improve the prognosis of patients with pancreatic cancer are urgently needed. 

Limitations of Current Therapies 

Current standard of care regimens are not only limited by modest efficacy but also by significant toxicity. For patients with nonresectable cancer (stage 3 or 4), FOLFIRINOX (oxaliplatin, irinotecan, leucovorin, and 5-fluorouracil) or a combination of gemcitabine and nanoparticle albumin-bound-, or nab-, paclitaxel are considered standard treatments, but the median overall survival of patients remains less than one year. Further, these treatments often are poorly tolerated. FOLFIRINOX is associated with a high rate of Grade 3-4 adverse events, can rarely be administered for more than six months, and is mostly prescribed to patients with excellent performance status. Frail, elderly patients usually receive palliative treatment. Extensive research is ongoing to identify novel agents with improved efficacy and a reduced toxicity profile, including chemotherapies with improved formulations of currently available agents, therapies targeted against specific oncogenic pathways, or cancer vaccines. 

Role of CCR2 in Pancreatic Cancer 

Human pancreatic tumors are characterized by a highly immunosuppressive microenvironment. In the tumor cellular microenvironment, CCR2 bearing cells are thought to be largely of an immunosuppressive behavior; these are the so-called MDSCs. These cells effectively help tumors hide from the body&#146;s cytotoxic immune response to tumor cells. Inhibiting CCR2, and thus the MDSCs controlled by CCR2, could therefore lead to the liberation of the cytotoxic immune response against the tumor cells, and improved patient survival. 

Clinical Development 

CCX872 is a potent and selective inhibitor of the human CCR2. The objective of using a CCR2 inhibitor such as CCX872 is to reduce the suppressive myeloid cell presence in the tumor and, in doing so, slow the 

&#160; 

progression of disease in these patients. We believe that CCX872 may represent a promising novel immunotherapeutic approach. Drugs that block CCR2 have shown evidence of activity in patients with pancreatic cancer as well as in a mouse orthotopic pancreatic cancer model. 

Phase I Clinical Trials 

We completed a first-in-human Phase I clinical trial in healthy subjects. This clinical trial was a combined single-and-multiple-ascending dose clinical trial in 40 subjects. The clinical trial was conducted in the Netherlands. CCX872 doses of 3mg, 10mg, 30mg, 100mg, and 300mg were given as a single dose in the first study period and once-daily doses for seven days in the second study period. Data showed that CCX872 was well-tolerated and appeared to be safe in healthy volunteers at all dose levels studied. There were no SAEs or dropouts due to adverse events in the trial. The most common adverse events reported by subjects receiving CCX872 in the multi-dose period were dizziness, diarrhea, and headache. These events typically were mild in intensity and did not result in dosing discontinuation. The results showed that CCX872 was safe and well-tolerated, and suitable for chronic dosing in patients. CCX872 was able to block CCR2 in the circulation, and it had a predictable dose-linear PK profile. 

Our Phase Ib study for CCX872 explores a novel approach (CCR2 inhibition) for the treatment of patients with stage 3 and 4 pancreatic cancer. Beyond the field of pancreatic cancer, the results of this study will also advance our understanding of the role of chemokines in solid tumors and of the potential for chemokine receptor inhibitors as therapeutic options in cancer patients when combined with standard of care regimens. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate whether orally administered CCX872 is safe and can improve the progression of disease in up to 54 patients with nonresectable pancreatic cancer being treated with FOLFIRINOX, one of the current standard of care treatments for this disease. Enrollment in the trial occurs in two stages, Part A (single dose) and Part B (multiple dose). Part A has been completed. Results showed that a single oral dose of 150-mg CCX872 was well-tolerated and safe in this study. The PK profile in patients with pancreatic cancer was in line with the PK profile observed in healthy volunteers in the previous clinical trial. CCX872 was effective in blocking CCR2 in circulating cells as measured by CCR2 occupancy and internalization assays, as well as migration assays. Successful completion of Part A led to initiation of Part B. Enrollment in Part B is ongoing. We expect to report initial ORR data from Part B of the trial in the first half of 2016 and initial PFS data in the second half of 2016. 

Preclinical Development in Immuno-Oncology 

One of the most exciting advances in oncology in decades is the recent observation that modifiers of the activity of the patient&#146;s own immune system can profoundly enhance their response to chemotherapy. 

A critical cellular component of this response are the MDSCs, which inhibit the activity of the effector T cells, and thus dampen the immune response of the body to the tumor. These MDSCs express chemokine and chemoattractant receptors that they use to migrate to the tumor microenvironment. We believe that blocking these chemokine receptors with small molecule antagonists could be effective either as stand-alone therapies for certain cancers or by synergistic effect when given in combination with traditional chemotherapies or other immunotherapies. 

We have discovered small molecule inhibitors that target these chemoattractant receptors, and one or more of them may be developed in certain oncology indications targeting both solid and liquid tumors. 

In our preclinical research, we are conducting studies with various chemokine receptor inhibitors in combination with check point inhibitors, such as those inhibiting the programmed death-ligand 1, or PD-L1, pathway, that we believe may result in a greater anti-tumor effect, than with check-point inhibition alone. 

A growing body of data suggests that a number of chemokine receptors, including, but not limited to, CCR1, CCR2, CCR5, and CXCR2, may play diverse roles in cancer growth, cancer metastasis, cancer angiogenesis, or 

&#160; 

the composition of the tumor microenvironment. Given the potential role of chemokine receptors in cancer cell survival, the combination of chemokine receptor antagonists with traditional chemotherapeutic agents or with immunotherapy, such as programmed cell death protein-1, or PD-1, or PD-L1 inhibitors is an attractive strategy because it may result in greater efficacy and/or allow dose reductions of the chemotherapeutic drugs and therefore limit systemic side effects. 

Chronic Kidney Disease 

In our chronic kidney disease program, our lead drug candidate, CCX140, is an inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR2 and is being developed as an orally administered therapy for the treatment of DN. We have successfully completed a Phase II, placebo-controlled, clinical trial in patients with this disease. 

DN is a form of chronic kidney disease, characterized by the gradual loss of kidney function. It is most common among people with Type 2 diabetes and hypertension and affects an estimated 26 million adults in the United States. Diabetes has become the primary cause of kidney disease in the United States and the associated incidence of DN is also on the rise. Twenty million people in the United States are estimated to have diabetes and 40% of all diabetics will develop DN. Clinically, DN is characterized by a progressive increase in urine albumin, or albuminuria, and a decline in glomerular filtration rate, hypertension, and a high risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. 

Limitations of Current Therapies 

Management of DN includes treatment of the underlying Type 2 diabetes and/or hypertension. Blood pressure medications such as ACE inhibitors and ARBs are commonly prescribed to control hypertension and slow the progression of DN. Nevertheless, most patients continue to have a decline in kidney function. About 20% of patients eventually progress to ESRD and require hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, or renal transplant. DN is a serious medical condition and needs treatments with new mechanisms of action that target pathways other than the RAAS in order to slow or reverse the progression of the disease. 

Role of CCR2 in Diabetic Nephropathy 

The chemokine receptor known as CCR2 has been identified as a main driver of inflammatory monocyte and macrophage recruitment into diseased kidneys. Various cell types in glomeruli also appear to express CCR2, which drives some of the renal impairment in DN. Levels of MCP-1 (also known as CCL2), the main ligand for CCR2, are elevated in the kidneys of patients with DN. MCP-1 is produced by kidney cells in response to such factors as high blood glucose levels and physical stresses. As a result, MCP-1 level in the urine is a strong indicator of renal damage and correlate well with albuminuria and interstitial macrophage numbers. 

CCX140 is our CCR2 inhibitor which successfully completed a Phase II clinical trial in type 2 diabetics and more recently a Phase II clinical trial in patients with DN. While historically DN was not considered an inflammatory disease, there is now clear evidence of the role of macrophages in this disease. Kidney biopsies from patients with DN show elevated numbers of macrophages in the glomeruli, which are the basic filtering units in the kidney. It has also been shown that the extent of tissue damage in the interstitial areas surrounding the proximal tubules, which are the second component of the filtering apparatus in the kidney, is strongly correlated with the numbers of macrophages present. Experimental studies in preclinical diabetic models have clarified that monocyte and macrophage infiltration begins at early stages of disease and that this infiltration correlates with renal injury. 

We have utilized various animal models to study the relationship between CCR2 inhibition and renal function. Data generated from these models have confirmed and expanded observations made by other independent investigators in preclinical models of DN indicating that CCR2 inhibition leads to pronounced 

&#160; 

reduction in albuminuria, as well as improvement in markers of renal function. We have also demonstrated that CCR2 inhibition provides benefits in several models of non-diabetic nephropathy. The following table summarizes the key findings from each of these animal models: 

Summary of Findings From CCR2 Inhibition in Animal Models of Nephropathy 

&#160;

Biological Parameter 

&#160; Effect of CCR2 Inhibition Albuminuria 

&#160; Reduced Hyperglycemia 

&#160; Reduced Glomerular Filtration Rate 

&#160; Decreased hyperfiltration Serum Markers of Renal Function 

&#160; Reduced serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels Histological Improvements 

&#160; Reduced number of renal interstitial macrophages 

Reduced percentage of glomeruli with mesangiolysis 

Increased podocyte density 

Data from preclinical studies indicate that CCX140 is a potent and selective inhibitor of CCR2 which is required for monocytes to infiltrate the inflamed kidney, where they differentiate into macrophages. While CCX140 is not the first CCR2 inhibitor to advance into clinical trials, we believe that it is unique in a number of ways, including its high selectivity for CCR2 relative to other chemokine receptors such as CCR5. We believe that CCX140 also distinguishes itself from other CCR2 inhibitors in that it has been shown preclinically to be free of the cardiovascular safety signals associated with other CCR2 inhibitors. CCX140 has been shown in a number of preclinical toxicology studies to be suitable for evaluation in humans for chronic use in DN. 

Clinical Development 

Our clinical development strategy was to first assess the safety and tolerability of CCX140 in healthy subjects, then in patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function, and finally to evaluate the drug in patients with DN. As a precursor to our clinical trials in patients with DN, we completed a 159-patient randomized Phase II clinical trial to assess the safety and tolerability of CCX140 in patients with type 2 diabetes, one of the most common causes of nephropathy. We also completed a 332-patient randomized Phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of CCX140 in patients with DN. 

CCX140 Phase I Clinical Trials 

We completed four Phase I clinical trials in 118 healthy volunteers. A CCX140 dose range of 0.05 to 15mg was studied. CCX140 was generally well-tolerated with no SAEs observed in these Phase I clinical trials. The PK profile was supportive of once-daily oral dosing of CCX140. 

CCX140 Phase II Clinical Trial in Type 2 Diabetes 

Our Phase II clinical trial was designed to demonstrate safety of CCX140 in patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function, and to examine the effect of CCX140 on glycemic indices. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo and active controlled clinical trial in 159 patients with type 2 diabetes on a stable dose of metformin for at least eight weeks, with 32 patients receiving placebo, 32 receiving pioglitazone hydrochloride (an approved therapeutic for type 2 diabetes serving as the active control), 63 receiving 5mg of CCX140 and 32 receiving 10mg of CCX140 orally once-daily for 28 days. 

The clinical trial met its primary objective by demonstrating the safety and tolerability of CCX140 in these patients. In addition, CCX140 showed encouraging signs of biological activity based on a statistically significant decrease in HbA1c, a marker of glycemic control, for the 10mg dose group. 

&#160; 

CCX140 Phase II Clinical Trial in Diabetic Nephropathy 

We have completed a Phase II clinical trial in patients with DN. A total of 332 patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. The goals of this clinical trial was to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of CCX140 in patients with DN. The primary efficacy objective was evaluation of the effect of CCX140 on albuminuria. Secondary efficacy objectives were evaluation of the effect of CCX140 on HbA1c and eGFR. The three treatment groups consisted of standard of care, ACE inhibitor or ARB plus placebo (control group), 5mg and 10mg of CCX140 once-daily plus standard of care. The treatment duration was up to 52 weeks, with a four-week follow-up period. Patients with residual albuminuria, despite being on a stable therapeutic dose of an ACE inhibitor or ARB were included in this clinical trial. The key efficacy endpoint was a change from baseline in first morning UACR, a major indicator of renal health. The target sample size of the trial was increased from 135 to 270 patients and the dosing duration was extended from 12 weeks to 52 weeks, following completion of long-term toxicology studies that allowed extension of dosing beyond 12 weeks. Because of better than anticipated enrollment towards the end of the enrollment period, a total of 332 subjects were ultimately enrolled in the trial. 

The Phase II trial met its primary endpoint by demonstrating that treatment with 5mg of CCX140 given orally once daily added to a standard of care regimen of ACE and ARB treatment resulted in a statistically significant (p=0.01) improvement in UACR, beyond that achieved with standard of care alone. The maximum treatment effect (24% reduction) was reached at 12 weeks, and sustained reduction in albuminuria induced by CCX140 relative to standard of care alone observed over the full year (UACR at each one of the 10 time points over the 52-week treatment period in the patients who received 5mg CCX140 continuously for 52 weeks, were below those of the standard of care alone group). A dose of 10mg CCX140 per day did not provide more improvement in albuminuria as compared to the 5mg dose. CCX140 did not affect systematic blood pressure, suggesting that the beneficial effect of CCX140 is mediated locally in the kidney micro-environment, possibly through a beneficial reduction in renal inflammation. CCX140 was well-tolerated with a low overall dropout rate over the 52-week treatment period (10%). No safety issues were observed that would prevent further clinical development of CCX140 in DN. 

We are preparing to conduct an end-of-Phase II meeting with the FDA, at which time the clinical results from the CCX140 program will be reviewed in detail and a Phase III clinical program will be discussed. We plan to further develop CCX140 in the context of a partnership. 

Other Inflammatory and Autoimmune Diseases 

Inflammatory Bowel Disease, or IBD/Crohn&#146;s Disease and Ulcerative Colitis 

IBD refers to two diseases &#151; Crohn&#146;s disease and ulcerative colitis &#151; both characterized by inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. Crohn&#146;s disease can cause inflammation in any part of the digestive tract but often affects the tail end of the small intestine. Ulcerative colitis is inflammation of the large intestine. Both Crohn&#146;s disease and ulcerative colitis are chronic and recurring inflammatory conditions. Researchers believe that these conditions occur when the body&#146;s inflammatory cells become over-reactive and mount a destructive inflammatory response. Current treatments for IBD include steroids, 5-aminosalicylic acids, immunosuppressive therapies, such as azathioprine or biologic agents such as TNF- &#097; inhibitors and integrin inhibitors, such as the anti- &#097; 4&#223;7 antibody, vedolizumab, and when all else fails, surgery. 

Vercirnon 

Our drug candidate Vercirnon is intended to control the inflammatory response underlying IBD by targeting the chemokine receptor known as CCR9. In adults, CCR9 is found primarily on a population of T cells, a subset of the body&#146;s inflammatory cells, which migrate selectively to the digestive tract. It is believed that when CCR9&#146;s ligand, CCL25 (also known as TECK), is over-expressed, the migration of T cells to the small and large intestine causes persistent inflammation that may result in Crohn&#146;s disease or ulcerative colitis. 

&#160; 

We completed nine clinical trials with vercirnon in a total of 785 subjects, including five Phase I clinical trials (three in the United States and two in the United Kingdom), one Thorough QT study in the United States (an assessment of cardiovascular safety which is required for regulatory approval), and three Phase II clinical trials (one in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States, one in Finland and one (PROTECT-1) in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom). We completed our PROTECT-1 Phase II clinical trial in 436 patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn&#146;s disease in 2009. Results from this clinical trial indicated that vercirnon was effective in inducing a clinical response over a 12-week treatment period. The results also indicated that vercirnon was effective in maintaining clinical remission over an additional 36-week treatment period. Vercirnon was safe and well-tolerated in all clinical trials completed to date. Data from the first of four Phase III clinical trials, the SHIELD-1 study, conducted by our former collaboration partner, Glaxo Group Limited, or GSK, an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline, investigating vercirnon in 608 patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn&#146;s disease, did not achieve the primary endpoint of improvement in clinical response and the key secondary endpoint of clinical remission. Results from SHIELD-4, a second induction study showed higher Crohn&#146;s disease activity index, or CDAI, response and remission rates with 500mg vercirnon twice daily compared to 500mg once daily. This is in contrast to the lack of dose response observed in the SHIELD-1 trial, and the response observed in the population of patients who completed 12 week dosing in SHIELD-4 was similar to the positive results from the Phase IIb PROTECT-1 clinical trial conducted by us. We are evaluating a potential future development and funding strategy for vercirnon. The assets, including vercirnon, all clinical study data, and IND are wholly owned by us. 

Second Generation CCR9 Inhibitor CCX507 

Also in the area of IBD, our drug candidate CCX507 builds on our expertise in the area of CCR9 inhibitors and IBD. CCX507 is a second generation CCR9 inhibitor. CCX507 is selective for CCR9 relative to all other chemokine receptors, orally bioavailable, and has an excellent preclinical safety profile. CCX507 has a greater potency towards CCR9 than vercirnon. We completed Phase I clinical development, which demonstrated that CCX507 was safe and well-tolerated, and blocked CCR9 on circulating leukocytes. Additionally, preclinical data of CCX507 in combination with an anti- &#097; 4&#223;7 antibody or anti-TNF showed that combined treatment reduced the severity of colitis better than monotherapy with either drug alone. We plan to move CCX507 forward to Phase II clinical trials, potentially in conjunction with a strategic partner. 

TH17 Driven Diseases and CCR6 

One of the most intriguing areas of current research in immunology involves a newly discovered type of helper T cells known as Th17 cells. There is a large amount of preclinical and clinical data that implicate Th17 cells, as well as Interleukin 17, or IL-17, in the development of a large number of autoimmune diseases, including psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and multiple sclerosis. 

Activated Th17 cells isolated from chronically inflamed human tissues produce high levels of TNF- &#097; and other cytokines. A hallmark of Th17 cells is that they express high levels of the chemokine receptor known as CCR6, which is not found on Th1 and Th2 cells. High levels of the CCR6 chemokine ligand, CCL20, have been found in psoriatic skin, in rheumatoid arthritis joint biopsies, and in asthmatic lungs. 

We believe that these are potential therapeutic opportunities for a CCR6 inhibitor. We have produced several unique CCR6 inhibitor leads, which are now being optimized through medicinal chemistry approaches. 

We have shown in preclinical models that an orally bioavailable, small molecule inhibitor of the chemokine receptor known as CCR6 confers protection against IL17-mediated inflammation. We have generated potent orally bioavailable CCR6 inhibitors that inhibit CCL20-mediated chemotaxis of both human and mouse CCR6-positive cells. The utility of CCR6 inhibition was tested in preclinical models of psoriasis, and demonstrated that animals treated with our CCR6 inhibitor were protected against imiquimod induced skin thickening. Histological 

&#160; 

analysis of the skin confirmed the protective effect of our CCR6 inhibitor compared to an aqueous vehicle control and significantly reduced ear-thickening induced by intradermal injections of Interleukin 23, or IL-23, a cytokine that is important for the terminal differentiation and pathogenicity of Th17 cells. 

The mechanism of action for CCR6 inhibitors is different from other therapeutics targeting IL-17, because inhibition of CCR6 disrupts the recruitment of infiltrating leukocytes into the epidermis upon skin damage, thereby protecting against epidermal hyperplasia, or an abnormal increase in the number of cells on the skin. Thus, pharmacological inhibition of CCR6 with an orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitor mitigates IL-17-driven inflammation in psoriasis models, and its distinct mechanism of action suggests it may offer additional efficacy when added to current standard of care. 

Recent work by others in the field has also revealed potential roles for CCR6 inhibitors in the treatment of colorectal cancer, or CRC. Specifically, in a mouse CRC model, mice that are genetically deficient in CCR6, as well as wild-type mice treated with a CCR6 inhibitor develop fewer intestinal polyps. 

CCR4 Inhibitor for Atopic Autoimmune Disorders 

CCR4 is expressed primarily on Th2 cells, which are key drivers of allergic conditions, such as atopic dermatitis, asthma, and allergic rhinitis. Multiple investigators have demonstrated increased levels of CCR4-activating chemokines in skin and lung tissues in connection with atopic dermatitis and asthma, respectively. CCR4 has also been identified on populations of T-Regulatory cells, or Treg cells, including those that are known to be important in the tumor microenvironment; thought to be a protective element in the tumor. An emerging concept in cancer therapy is that the elimination of tumor protecting Treg cells from the tumor microenvironment could be an important part of the future therapies in immuno-oncology. 

CCX6239 is a novel, orally administered CCR4 inhibitor with potential utility in the treatment of conditions discussed above. We have shown in preclinical models that CCX6239 blocks the mobilization of white blood cells controlled by CCR4. 

CXCR6 Inhibitor for Liver Diseases 

Infection, chemical and metabolic insults to the liver can lead to a vigorous T-cell response in that organ. Resultant inflammation and liver damage can often result from persistent attempts by the immune system to deal with the underlying insults. The chemokine receptor known as CXCR6 is expressed on a subset of specialized inflammatory cells and is accepted, based on preclinical work with CXCR6-deficient mice, as a &#147;liver homing&#148; receptor for those cells. Under inflammatory conditions, various cell types in the liver produce the chemokine ligand that attracts CXCR6-expressing inflammatory cells. We believe that these effects may be blocked by our CXCR6 inhibitors without the adverse side effects associated with the current methods of treatment. 

Our Proprietary Drug Discovery Platform, EnabaLink 

Since the founding of our company, we have developed a set of proprietary drug discovery tools, known collectively as the EnabaLink technology suite, specifically designed to unlock the chemoattractant system&#146;s complexity and to accelerate a productive drug discovery program. Our proprietary EnabaLink drug discovery technologies allow our scientists to accurately predict the specific chemokine receptors implicated in a given condition and to identify and optimize small molecule compounds best suited for treatment of the disease. One of the initial tools that we developed is a thorough functional genomic map of the chemoattractant system which assists us in our understanding of the role of a given chemokine receptor in the system as well as its likely effect on the migration of inflammatory cells in a given inflammatory disease state. 

As part of this platform, we have also developed a proprietary high throughput cell migration-based assay, known as the RAM assay, capable of identifying chemokine receptor inhibitors while eliminating non-specific 

&#160; 

inhibitors and cytotoxic inhibitors of cell migration. Our proprietary RAM assay typically uses cells expressing a given chemokine receptor in its natural environment and enables the screening of small molecule libraries against chemokine receptor targets which are not amenable to traditional screening technologies. This produces additional novel chemical hits with structural diversity, allowing us to expand the number of chemical structures, which serve as starting points for subsequent optimization into drug candidates. 

We have used our EnabaLink drug discovery engine to create a broad pipeline of promising chemokine-based drug candidates. The combination of proprietary in-house technologies and internally discovered drug candidates has resulted in an extensive intellectual property estate covering composition of matter and associated method of treatments for our compounds, novel biology-related discoveries, such as unique targets and new drug discovery technologies. We have generated more than six clinical, and several preclinical-stage programs, each targeting distinct chemokine receptors with different small molecule compounds. Drug candidates emerging from these programs act with high affinity and selectivity in vitro by binding to the precise chemokine receptor associated with the essential inflammatory processes underlying a given condition. Our compounds are designed to be highly potent and selective to minimize the risk of off-target effects and orally-available for improved patient compliance. As small molecules, they are also easier and less costly to manufacture than biologics. 

Former Strategic Alliance with GSK 

We had a development and commercialization agreement with GSK which ended in November 2013. For former collaboration compounds that were originally licensed to GSK and were subsequently returned to us, we are free to develop and commercialize such compounds either independently or with another partner. In the event we elect to continue to develop and commercialize drug candidates covered under this former agreement, including vercirnon, CCX168 and CCX832, we would be subject to future royalties to GSK. With respect to vercirnon, we would be subject to a reverse royalty to GSK of 3% on annual worldwide net sales only if a regulatory agency were to deem one of GSK&#146;s SHIELD trials to be a pivotal Phase III clinical trial. With respect to CCX354, we would not be subject to any reverse royalty to GSK on sales. With respect to CCX168 and CCX832, we would be subject to reverse royalties to GSK of 3% on annual worldwide net sales, not to exceed $50.0 million in royalties for each. 

Intellectual Property 

Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, novel biological discoveries, screening and drug development technology and other know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and potential in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

As for the pharmaceutical products we develop and commercialize, as a normal course of business, we intend to pursue composition-of-matter patents, where possible, manufacturing, salts and polymorphs, dosage, combinations and formulation patents, as well as method of use patents on novel indications for known compounds. We also seek patent protection with respect to novel biological discoveries, including new targets and applications as well as adjuvant and vaccine candidates. We have also pursued patents with respect to our proprietary screening and drug development processes and technology. We have sought patent protection, either alone or jointly with our collaborators, as our collaboration agreements may dictate. 

Our patent estate, on a worldwide basis, includes approximately 716 issued or allowed patents and approximately 214 pending patent applications, with claims relating to all of our current clinical-stage drug candidates. There are approximately 20 issued or allowed patents and 26 patent applications pending for 

&#160; 

CCX168, our lead drug candidate in the C5aR program. With respect to our drug candidates in the CCR2 program, we have approximately 70 issued or allowed patents and 6 patents pending worldwide relating to their chemical composition or use thereof. With respect to our drug candidates in the CCR9 and CCR1 programs, we have approximately 363 issued or allowed patents and 116 patents pending worldwide relating to their chemical composition or use thereof. We have approximately 80 patents issued or pending for our other preclinical-stage compounds in the C5aR, CCR2, CXCR7, CCR4, CXCR2 and CCR6 programs. We have approximately 37 issued patents relating to other small molecule compounds and approximately 155 issued patents relating to our novel biological discoveries and our proprietary screening and drug development technologies. 

For our lead drug candidates, CCX168, CCX872 and CCX140, our issued primary patents will expire on dates ranging from 2026 to 2031, not including patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificates that may be available in some countries. However, the actual protection afforded by a patent varies on a product by product basis, from country to country and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the pate. 

In addition to patents, we rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our commercial partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and invention assignment agreements with our employees. We also have confidentiality agreements or invention assignment agreements with our commercial partners and selected consultants. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of the invention assignment agreements, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third party. 

Our commercial success will also depend in part on not infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. It is uncertain whether the issuance of any third party patent would require us to alter our development or commercial strategies, or our drugs or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. Our breach of any license agreements or failure to obtain a license to proprietary rights that we may require to develop or commercialize our future drugs may have a material adverse impact on us. If third parties prepare and file patent applications in the United States that also claim technology to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. 

Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Millennium, has obtained certain United States patents which include claims to small molecules that modulate CCR9, compositions thereof, and methods of using them to treat conditions such as IBD. Millennium may contend that the claims of these patents cover our patented vercirnon drug candidate. We believe that our activities related to vercirnon are currently exempt from patent infringement liability because these activities are strictly limited to obtaining information for regulatory approval. However, if and when our vercirnon related activities extend beyond those related to seeking regulatory approval, such as, for example, if and when we commercialize vercirnon, Millennium might then commence an infringement action against us based on these patents and/or other related patents that it may be granted in the future. If Millennium elects to sue us, we believe that we may have viable defenses to any such infringement suit. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant court would find in our favor with respect to such defenses. 

Competition 

We compete in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other related markets that address AAV, DN and other renal diseases, IBD, rheumatoid arthritis, other autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders, and cancer. We face significant competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are also researching and selling products designed to address these markets. Many of our competitors have materially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, research, and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive expertise in preclinical and clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies, and other 

&#160; 

public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies. These organizations may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. 

It is possible that our competitors will develop and market drugs that are less expensive and more effective than our drug candidates, or that will render our drug candidates obsolete. It is also possible that our competitors will commercialize competing drugs before we or our partners can launch any drugs developed from our drug candidates. 

CCX168, our C5aR inhibitor, if approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for the treatment of AAV, might compete with current treatments, such as steroids, CYC, RTX, azathioprine, methotrexate, and mycophenolate mofetil. If CCX168 were approved for the treatment of aHUS, it would potentially compete with eculizumab (Soliris). 

CCX872, our second CCR2 inhibitor, if approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, might compete with treatments that are currently available, such as chemotherapeutic drugs including gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, or new treatments in development. 

CCX140, our first CCR2 inhibitor, if approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for the treatment of DN, might compete with treatments commonly used for type 2 diabetes and hypertension patients. ARBs and ACE inhibitors, are commonly prescribed treatments used to reduce blood pressure and preserve kidney function, reducing the progression of DN. 

Our CCR9 small molecule inhibitors such as CCX507 and vercirnon for the treatment of IBD, might compete against existing IBD treatments such as Remicade, Humira, and other TNF- &#097; inhibitors, anti- &#097; 4&#223;7 antibodies such as vedolizumumab (Entyvio), immunomodulatory drugs and steroids and potentially against other novel IBD drug candidates that are currently in development. Remicade is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeted to TNF- &#097; , indicated for the treatment of Crohn&#146;s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. Humira, a similar drug, is also a human monoclonal antibody that acts as a TNF- &#097; inhibitor. Marketed by AbbVie in the United States and Europe, Humira is approved for the treatment of Crohn&#146;s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Biosimilar drugs to Humira, for example, may also become available to treat patients with IBD. 

Many of these currently approved treatments have notable and common adverse events including liver and bone marrow toxicity, renal toxicity, pneumonitis, immunosuppression, allergic reactions, autoimmune diseases and infections. 

We expect that competition among any of our drugs approved for sale will be based on various factors, including drug safety and efficacy, prevalence of negative side effects, reliability, ease of administration, availability, price, insurance coverage and reimbursement status and patent position. We believe that our ability to compete depends largely upon our ability to research, develop and commercialize our existing and future drug candidates. Further, we need to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection, develop proprietary technology or processes and secure sufficient capital resources for the substantial time period between technological conception and commercial sales of drugs. Our ability to compete will also be affected by the speed at which we are able to identify and develop, conduct clinical testing and obtain regulatory approvals of our drug candidates. Potential competitors may develop treatments that are more effective and/or safer than our drug candidates or that would make our technology and drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. 

Established pharmaceutical companies that currently sell or are developing drugs in our markets of interest include AbbVie, Alexion, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen Idec, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Elan, Roche/Genentech, GSK, Johnson &#38; Johnson, Merck, Merck Serono, Takeda, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, and Teva. Many 

&#160; 

or all of these established competitors are also heavily involved in research and drug development regarding various chemokine receptors. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies which are known to be involved in chemokine and chemoattractant research and related drug development include Pfizer, GSK, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Takeda, Sanofi, Incyte, Alexion, and UCB Pharma among others. These companies and others also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, and in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. 

Manufacturing 

Our current drug candidates are manufactured using common chemical engineering and synthetic processes from readily available raw materials. We rely on contract manufacturing organizations to produce our drug candidates in accordance with the FDA&#146;s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations for use in our clinical trials. However, we currently rely on a single source supplier for our requirements of the API of each of these other drug candidates. The manufacture of pharmaceuticals is subject to extensive cGMP regulations, which impose various procedural and documentation requirements and govern all areas of record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. We expect to rely on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of clinical and commercial supplies of our compounds. 

We purchase quantities of our drug candidates from our contract manufacturers pursuant to purchase orders that we place from time to time. If we were unable to obtain sufficient quantities of drug candidates or receive raw materials in a timely manner, we could be required to delay our ongoing clinical trials and seek alternative manufacturers, which would be costly and time-consuming. We believe we have multiple potential sources for our contract manufacturing. 

Government Regulation 

The FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in state and local jurisdictions and in other countries impose substantial and burdensome requirements upon companies involved in the clinical development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of drugs. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, export and import of our drug candidates. 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drug products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the FDA&#146;s implementing regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA or other requirements at any time during the drug development process, clinical testing, the approval process or after approval, we may become subject to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA&#146;s refusal to approve pending applications, license suspension or revocation, withdrawal of an approval, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any FDA enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process required by the FDA before our drug candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical animal studies and formulation studies all performed in accordance with the FDA&#146;s current good laboratory practices, or cGLP, regulations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug, or IND, application which must become effective before human clinical trials in the United States may begin; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate for each proposed indication; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with cGMP regulations; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing, sale or shipment of the drug. 

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our drug candidates will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

Once a pharmaceutical drug candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluations of drug chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as studies to evaluate toxicity in animals. The results of the preclinical studies, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial, including concerns that human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Submission of an IND may result in the FDA not allowing the clinical trials to commence or not allowing the clinical trials to commence on the terms originally specified in the IND. A separate submission to an existing IND must also be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during drug development, and the FDA must grant permission, either explicitly or implicitly by not objecting, before each clinical trial can begin. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be used. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. An independent institutional review board, or IRB, for each medical center proposing to conduct a clinical trial must also review and approve a plan for any clinical trial before it can begin at that center and the IRB must monitor the clinical trial until it is completed. The FDA, the IRB, or the sponsor may suspend or discontinue a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Clinical testing also must satisfy extensive Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, requirements, including the requirements for informed consent. 

All clinical research performed in the United States in support of an NDA must be authorized in advance by the FDA under the IND regulations and procedures described above. However, a sponsor who wishes to conduct a clinical trial outside the United States may, but need not, obtain FDA authorization to conduct the clinical trial under an IND. If a foreign clinical trial is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor may submit data from the clinical trial to FDA in support of an NDA so long as the clinical trial is conducted in compliance with an international guideline for the ethical conduct of clinical research known as the Declaration of Helsinki and/or the laws and regulations of the country or countries in which the clinical trial is performed, whichever provides the greater protection to the participants in the clinical trial. We conducted our PROTECT-1 clinical trial solely at foreign clinical research sites, and we did not have authorization from the FDA under an IND to conduct that clinical trial in the United States. We designed the clinical trial to comply with FDA regulatory requirements for the use of foreign clinical data in support of an NDA, and the data were submitted from the PROTECT-1 clinical trial in support of future U.S. marketing application for vercirnon. We are pursuing a similar development strategy for CCX140 which has recently completed a Phase II clinical trial in patients with DN in Europe. One of the Phase II clinical trials with CCX168 in patients with AAV has also been conducted in Europe. The second clinical trial is being conducted in North America. We have opened an IND in the United States. prior to commencing the Phase II clinical trial in the United States. All of our clinical trials are designed to comply with FDA regulatory requirements so that the data from all trials can be used to support a regulatory filing in the United States. We plan to include the United States and Europe in our later-stage clinical development program for CCX140 and CCX168, and for other drug candidates we develop independently prior to filing for regulatory approval with the FDA and the EMA. 

&#160; 

Clinical Trials 

For purposes of NDA submission and approval, clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase I clinical trials are initially conducted in a limited population of subjects to test the drug candidate for safety, dose tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion in healthy humans or, on occasion, in patients with severe problems or life-threatening diseases to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase II clinical trials are generally conducted in a limited patient population to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for specific targeted indications in patients with the disease or condition under study. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase III clinical trials, commonly referred to as pivotal studies, are typically conducted when Phase II clinical trials demonstrate that a dose range of the drug candidate is effective and has an acceptable safety profile. Phase III clinical trials are generally undertaken with large numbers of patients, such as groups of several hundred to several thousand, to further evaluate dosage, to provide substantial evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded and diverse patient population at multiple, geographically-dispersed clinical trial sites. An exception might be drugs developed for an orphan indication, where smaller clinical trials might be acceptable to the FDA and the EMA. 

In some cases, the FDA may condition approval of an NDA on the sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct additional clinical trials to further assess the drug&#146;s safety and effectiveness after NDA approval. Such post-approval clinical trials are typically referred to as Phase IV clinical trials. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the drug in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

New Drug Applications 

The results of preclinical studies and of the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including extensive manufacturing information and information on the composition of the drug, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug for one or more specified indications. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug is safe and effective for its intended use. 

Once an NDA has been accepted for filing, by law the FDA has 180 days for a priority review to examine the application and respond to the applicant. However, the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has a goal of responding to NDAs within ten months of the filing date for standard review, but this timeframe is also often extended. The FDA may refer the application to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA if the applicable statutory and regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional clinical data or an additional Phase III clinical trial. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always 

&#160; 

conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret data. Once the FDA approves an NDA, or supplement thereto, the FDA may withdraw the approval if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems are identified after the drug reaches the market. Where a withdrawal may not be appropriate, the FDA still may seize existing inventory of such drug or require a recall of any drug already on the market. In addition, the FDA may require testing, including Phase IV clinical trials and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved drugs which have been commercialized. The FDA has the authority to prevent or limit further marketing of a drug based on the results of these post-marketing programs. 

A sponsor may also seek approval of its drug candidates under programs designed to accelerate FDA&#146;s review and approval of NDAs. For instance, a sponsor may seek FDA designation of a drug candidate as a &#147;fast track product.&#148; Fast track products are those products intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for such disease or condition. If fast track designation is obtained, the FDA may initiate review of sections of an NDA before the application is complete. This &#147;rolling review&#148; is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the remaining information. In some cases, a fast track product may be approved on the basis of either a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Approvals of this kind typically include requirements for appropriate post-approval Phase IV clinical trials to validate the surrogate endpoint or otherwise confirm the effect of the clinical endpoint. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, which was enacted and signed into law in 2012, established a new category of drugs referred to as &#147;breakthrough therapies&#148; that may be subject to accelerated approval. A sponsor may seek FDA designation of a drug candidate as a &#147;breakthrough therapy&#148; if the drug is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. FDA is required to issue guidance to implement this provision and, if deemed necessary, is required to amend its regulations by 2014. Drug candidates may also be eligible for &#147;priority review,&#148; or review within a six month timeframe from the date a complete NDA is accepted for filing, if a sponsor shows that its drug candidate provides a significant improvement compared to marketed drugs. Fast track designation, accelerated approval, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review do not change the standards for approval, but may expedite the development or approval process. When appropriate, we intend to seek fast track designation, accelerated approval, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review, as applicable for our drug candidates. We cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates will obtain such designations or approvals, or the ultimate impact, if any, of such designations or approvals on the timing or likelihood of FDA approval of any of our proposed drugs. 

Drugs may be marketed only for the FDA approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, the applicant may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, which may require us to develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. 

Before approving an application, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the finished drug product, and sometimes the active drug ingredient, is manufactured, and will not approve the drug unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. The FDA may also inspect the sites at which the clinical trials were conducted to assess their compliance, and will not approve the drug unless compliance with GCP requirements is satisfactory. 

The testing and approval processes require substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take several years to complete. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we believe a clinical trial has demonstrated safety and efficacy of one of our drug candidates for the treatment of a disease, the results may not be satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data may be interpreted by the FDA in 

&#160; 

different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may encounter difficulties or unanticipated costs in our efforts to secure necessary governmental approvals which could delay or preclude us from marketing drugs. The FDA may limit the indications for use or place other conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial application of the drugs. After approval, certain changes to the approved drug, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. Depending on the nature of the change proposed, an NDA supplement must be filed and approved before the change may be implemented. For many proposed post-approval changes to an NDA, the FDA has up to 180 days to review the application. As with new NDAs, the review process is often significantly extended by the FDA requests for additional information or clarification. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

In the United States, under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition. Such diseases and conditions are those that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or if they affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug available in the United States for these types of diseases or conditions will be recovered from sales of the drug. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. If the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by that agency. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process, but it can lead to financial incentives, such as opportunities for grant funding toward clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. 

If a drug that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the drug is entitled to orphan drug marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity generally prevents the FDA from approving another application, including a full NDA, to market the same drug or biological product for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, including if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. For purposes of small molecule drugs, the FDA defines &#147;same drug&#148; as a drug that contains the same active chemical entity and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug marketing exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. 

The criteria for designating an orphan medicinal product in the EU are similar in principle to those in the United States. Under Article 3 of Regulation (EC) 141/2000, a medicinal product may be designated as orphan if (1) it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition; (2) either (a) such condition affects no more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU when the application is made, or (b) the product, without the benefits derived from orphan status, would not generate sufficient return in the EU to justify investment; and (3) there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such condition authorized for marketing in the EU, or if such a method exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, as defined in Regulation (EC) 847/2000. Orphan medicinal products are eligible for financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and are, upon grant of a marketing authorization, entitled to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved therapeutic indication. The application for orphan designation must be submitted before the application for marketing authorization. The applicant will receive a fee reduction for the marketing authorization application if the orphan designation has been granted, but not if the designation is still pending at the time the marketing authorization is submitted. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. 

&#160; 

The ten-year market exclusivity in the EU may be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan designation, for example, if the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Additionally, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar product for the same indication at any time if: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the second applicant can establish that its product, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the applicant consents to a second orphan medicinal product application; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the applicant cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product. 

Other Regulatory Requirements 

Any drugs manufactured or distributed by us or our collaborators pursuant to FDA approvals would be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including recordkeeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences associated with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements, including cGMPs, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third party manufacturers. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements can subject a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action or possible civil penalties. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future third party manufacturers or suppliers will be able to comply with the cGMP regulations and other ongoing FDA regulatory requirements. If we or our present or future third party manufacturers or suppliers are not able to comply with these requirements, the FDA may halt our clinical trials, require us to recall a drug from distribution or withdraw approval of the NDA for that drug. 

The FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the Internet. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the product&#146;s labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers&#146; communications regarding off-label use. 

Healthcare Reform 

In March 2010, the President signed one of the most significant healthcare reform measures in decades. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively known as the Affordable Care Act, substantially changes the way healthcare will be financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The comprehensive $940 billion dollar overhaul extended coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured Americans. The Affordable Care Act contained a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which impacted existing government healthcare programs and resulted in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; imposed a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell &#147;branded prescription drugs&#148; to specified federal government programs; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; increased the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; required collection of rebates for drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; required manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mandated a further shift in the burden of Medicaid payments to the states. 

The Affordable Care Act also established an Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. Beginning in 2014, IPAB is mandated to propose changes in Medicare payments if it is determined that the rate of growth of Medicare expenditures exceeds target growth rates. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies to reduce expenditures, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for services, including imaging services. A proposal made by the IPAB is required to be implemented by the U.S. government&#146;s Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services unless Congress adopts a proposal with savings greater than those proposed by the IPAB. IPAB proposals may impact payments for physician and free-standing services beginning in 2015 and for hospital services beginning in 2020. 

Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. In August, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the President signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. The full impact on our business of the Affordable Care Act and other new laws is uncertain. Nor is it clear whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the demand for our drugs if commercialized. 

Third-Party Payor Coverage and Reimbursement 

Although none of our drug candidates has been commercialized for any indication, if they are approved for marketing, commercial success of our drug candidates will depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors at the federal, state, and private levels. Government payor programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance companies, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular procedures or drug treatments. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures from time to time propose and adopt initiatives aimed at cost-containment. Ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid payment systems. Examples of how limits on drug coverage and reimbursement in the United States may cause reduced payments for drugs in the future include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; changing Medicare reimbursement methodologies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fluctuating decisions on which drugs to include in formularies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; revising drug rebate calculations under the Medicaid program; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; reforming drug importation laws. 

Some third-party payors also require pre-approval of coverage for new or innovative devices or drug therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use such therapies. While we cannot predict 

&#160; 

whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted or otherwise implemented in the future, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain adequate prices for our drug candidates and operate profitably. 

Other Healthcare Laws and Regulations 

We are also subject to healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other &#147;transfers of value&#148; made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other &#147;transfer of value&#148; to such physician owners; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and impact our financial results. 

International Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our future drugs. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug, we must obtain approval of a drug by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign 

&#160; 

countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the drug in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 

Under EU regulatory systems, marketing authorizations may be submitted either under a centralized or mutual recognition procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marking authorization that is valid for all EU Member States. The mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marking authorization may submit an application to the remaining Member States. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessment report, each Member State must decide whether to recognize approval. 

In addition to regulations in Europe and the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial distribution of our future drugs. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 58 full-time employees, 26 of whom hold Ph.D.s, M.D.s or both. Of our total workforce, 45 employees are engaged in research and development, and 13 employees are engaged in business development, finance, legal, human resources, facilities, information technology administration and general management. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees and we have not experienced any work stoppages. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Research and Development 

We invested $33.2 million, $33.8 million and $33.5 million in research and development in the years 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

About ChemoCentryx 

We commenced operations in 1997. Our principal offices are located at 850 Maude Avenue, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number is (650) 210-2900. Our website address is www.chemocentryx.com. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have a wholly owned subsidiary, ChemoCentryx Limited, organized under the laws of the United Kingdom that is currently inactive. 

Financial Information about Segments 

We operate only in one business segment, which is the commercialization and development of pharmaceutical products. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information regarding our business, see &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; and our financial statements and related notes. 

Available Information 

We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make available on our website at www.chemocentryx.com, free of charge, copies of these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. The information in or accessible through the SEC and our website are not incorporated into, and are not considered part of, this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

&#160; 

