 Item 1.

BUSINESS 

Introduction 

CEN Biotech, Inc. (&#147;CEN&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in Canada on August 4, 2013 as a subsidiary of Creative Edge Nutrition, Inc. (&#147;Creative&#148;), a public company incorporated in Nevada. Creative distributed all of the shares of CEN common stock on a pro rata basis to the Creative shareholders on February 29, 2016 at which time CEN became an independent public company. At the time of the spinoff, CEN and Creative had separate officers and directors. No individual is an officer or director of both. Creative will cooperate with CEN if any corporate or similar information is needed Otherwise, there will be virtually no areas of ongoing relationship.

CEN is an early stage Canadian biopharmaceutical company founded to integrate agronomical and pharmaceutical principles for the purposes of growing, selling and delivering pharmaceutical-grade medical marijuana to patients in accordance with Health Canada&#146;s newly-formed Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations (MMPR). 

CEN obtained funding to build the initial phase of its comprehensive seed-to-sale facility and, upon full licensure, will begin operating its state-of-the-art medical marijuana cultivation, processing, and distribution facility in Lakeshore, Ontario. CEN has applied for a license with Health Canada but cannot provide any assurances of the likelihood of receiving the license or the timing involved. 

If licensed, the facility can begin growing immediately once it sources the seeds. The selling process would then commence. 

JUDICIAL REVIEW: 

On March 11, 2015, the Company&#146;s application for a license to produce marijuana for medical purposes was formally rejected by Health Canada. The Company filed an application for judicial review in Canadian federal court on April 10, 2015 in order to obtain a reversal of this decision. 

The file is currently making its way through the legal process in Federal Court. The steps to this appeals process are: 

&#183;

Step 1: The applicant gathers the required resources 

&#183;

Step 2: The applicant considers the preliminary issues of jurisdiction, standing, and timelines 

&#183;

Step 3: The applicant drafts the notice of application and the Federal Court issues it 

&#183;

Step 4: The respondent files a notice of appearance 

&#183;

Step 5: The tribunal transmits the certified tribunal record to the parties and to the Federal 

&#183;

Step 6: The applicant serves its affidavit evidence, if necessary 

&#183;

Step 7: The respondent serves its affidavit evidence, if necessary 

&#183;

Step 8: The parties conduct cross-examinations, if necessary 

&#183;

Step 9: The applicant files the applicant's record 

&#183;

Step 10: The respondent files the respondent's record 

&#183;

Step 11: The applicant files a requisition for hearing date 

&#183;

Step 12: The parties prepare for the hearing 

&#183;

Step 13: The parties attend the hearing 

&#183;

Step 14: The parties complete post-hearing tasks 

The appeals process, as of March 8, 2016 is up to Step 8. The outcome and timing of this legal proceeding cannot be predicted. 

On February 24, 2016, in the case of NEIL ALLARD, TANYA BEEMISH, DAVID HEBERT AND SHAWN DAVEY v. HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA, The Federal Court ruled the following: 

&#147;VIII. Conclusion

[289] For all these reasons, the Court has concluded that the Plaintiffs have established that their s 7 Charter rights have been infringed by the MMPR and that such infringement is not in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice or otherwise justified under s 1.

IX. Disposition and Remedy

[290] For these reasons, I find that the MMPR regime infringes the Plaintiffs&#146;s 7 Charter rights and such infringement is not justified.

[291] In several decisions regarding the MMAR, the Courts have struck out either certain provisions or certain words in certain provisions, but otherwise left the structure of the regulation in place. Most of these decisions related to criminal charges where such narrow, feasible and effective excising was appropriate.

[292] In the present case, the attack has been on the structure of the new regulation. It would not be feasible or effective to strike certain words or provisions. That exercise would eviscerate the regulation and leave nothing practical in place.

The Defendant has recognized the integrated nature of the MMPR provisions.

[293] It is neither feasible nor appropriate to order the Defendant to reinstate the MMAR (as amended by current jurisprudence). It is not the role of the Court to impose regulations. The MMAR may be a useful model for subsequent consideration; however, it is not the only model,

Page: 102

nor is a MMAR-type regime the only medical marihuana regime, as experience from other countries has shown.

[294] The remedy considerations are further complicated by the fact that there is no attack on the underlying legislation. Striking down the MMPR merely leaves a legislative gap where possession of marihuana continues as a criminal offence. Absent a replacement regulation or exemption, those in need of medical marihuana &#150; and access to a Charter compliant medical marihuana regime is legally required &#150; face potential criminal charges.

[295] It would be possible for the Court to suspend the operation of the provisions which make it an offence to possess, use, grow and/or distribute marihuana for those persons holding a medical prescription or medical authorization. However, this is a blunt instrument which may not be necessary if a Charter compliant regime were put in place or different legislation were passed.

[296] The appropriate resolution, following the declaration of invalidity of the MMPR, is to suspend the operation of the declaration of invalidity to permit Canada to enact a new or parallel medical marihuana regime. As this regime was created by regulation, the legislative process is simpler than the requirement for Parliament to pass a new law.

[297] The declaration will be suspended for six (6) months to allow the government to respond to the declaration of invalidity&#148;

The MMPR has been declared to be of no force and effect, but that declaration is put on hold for 6 months to allow the government to deal with new legislation. In the interim, both the MMPR and MMAR stay in effect pursuant to the terms of the Injunction of Manson J of March 21, 2014

OMB HEARING: 

CEN Biotech in conjunction with the property owner of 20 North Rear Rd filed appeals to the Town of Lakeshores zoning bylaws and the Official Plan regarding Medical Marihuana facilities. 

ONTARIO SUPERIOR COURT CASE 

On or about February 2, 2016, CEN Biotech filed a Statement of Claim against the Attorney General of Canada in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. In its claim, CEN Biotech claims the following:

(a) damages for detrimental reliance in the sum of FIFTEEN MILLION DOLLARS ($15,000,000.00);

(b) damages for pure economic loss in an undetermined amount;

(c) prejudgment and post judgment interest in accordance with sections 128 and 129 of the Courts of Justice Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. C.43, as amended, and section 31 of the Crown Liability and Proceedings Act, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-50, as amended;

(d) the costs of this proceeding on a substantial indemnity basis, plus all applicable taxes; and

(e) such further and other Relief as to this Honourable Court may seem just.

CEN&#146;s new facility was engineered to meet all Health Canada requirements under the MMPR, including but not limited specifications for security, good production practices, packaging, labeling, distribution, record-keeping and reporting. The planning and construction of the facility was overseen by R.X.N.B., Inc., an entity which is 45% owned by Mr. Chaaban. Through December 31, 2014, R.X.N.B. had billed and collected $2,439,900 for its work on the project. 

Based on Health Canada&#146;s projected ten-year medical marijuana market growth rate, over 800,000 kilograms of medical marijuana will need to be produced per year by 2024. CEN is planning to assist production and supply of medical marijuana to the Canadian market, growing with the needs of the industry as it progresses. 

CEN plans to develop educational alternative treatment programs to help replace certain narcotic drugs, when deemed appropriate by healthcare practitioners. The plan is for this to be achieved by focusing on patients diagnosed with disease-states, which have been recognized by Health Canada as applicable for candidates to use medical marihuana as an alternative to their previously prescribed narcotics. These patients could potentially benefit from the use of medical marihuana as an alternative treatment modality and in some cases, as an added aid in efficacy as a 2 nd or 3 rd line option. 

Furthermore, CEN plans to develop value-added services, such as a patient-care ambassador program, which dedicates a patient and their healthcare practitioner to a designated liaison. This program will secure basic patient information, preferences, and other pertinent data available so that patients can cater their treatment program to their lifestyles and evolving medication needs, while helping patients keep track of their next appointment dates. Through technological innovation, CEN will seek to create the best possible solutions for both the patient and their healthcare practitioner. 

CEN is also developing relationships with other specialists to assist in developing its overall list of services. 

Regulatory Environment 

Medical marijuana has been making headlines in Canada after changes to regulations created a new market for commercial marijuana production. On April 1, 2014, the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations (&#34;MMPR&#34;) replaced the previous Marihuana Medical Access Regulations (&#34;MMAR&#34;). Under the old regulatory scheme, authorized patients could obtain licenses to grow their own marijuana at home, designate a third party to grow marijuana on their behalf, or purchase it from Health Canada's approved supplier. Now, medical marijuana may only be obtained from a producer licensed by Health Canada, either directly or through a licensed dealer or health care practitioner. 

Health Canada estimates that demand for medical marijuana will increase ten-fold and sales will reach $1.3 billion dollars per year by 2024, making it an attractive market for prospective producers and those looking to invest. By requiring that medical marijuana must ultimately be obtained from independently licensed producers, the MMPR has effectively created the basis for this new industry. While &#34;designated persons&#34; were licensed under the MMAR to grow medical marijuana for use by others, they were limited to providing for a maximum of two authorized patients. 

The use of marijuana for medical purposes was banned in Canada in the 1930s and remained so until 2000 when R. v. Parker found the total prohibition on marijuana unconstitutional. While marijuana is still not an approved drug or medicine in Canada, the government subsequently took steps to exempt certain users from the provisions of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (&#34;CDSA&#34;) that criminalize its possession, paving the way for patients to access the drug. Under the Marihuana Medical Access Regulations , patients or their designated persons were allowed to grow marijuana on a small scale, often in their homes. This system led to concerns over public health, safety and security; concerns that were the impetus behind the new MMPR which only provides access to marijuana through purchasing it from licensed and inspected commercial producers. 

There are several key aspects of the new regulations that anyone looking to enter or invest in this industry should take into consideration: 

License Application 

In order to produce medical marijuana in Canada, a company must obtain a license from Health Canada. The licensing process is extensive - prospective licensees must demonstrate that they meet a number of requirements set out in the MMPR such as strict security measures, good production practices, approval from local municipalities, police and fire authorities, and security clearance for key personnel. 

There is currently no limit to the number of licenses that Health Canada will approve. Currently, 26 companies hold licenses and many additional applications have been made. 

Strict Compliance 

Obtaining a license is only the first step for prospective producers. 

Because marijuana is not an approved drug or medicine in Canada, it is likely that Health Canada will be rigorous in its oversight of licensed producers. Strict compliance with the MMPR will be necessary to ensure that licenses, which expire after a maximum of two years, will in fact be renewed. Licenses may be refused renewal or revoked for failing to comply with the MMPR and other applicable legislation including the CDSA, Narcotic Control Regulations, and Food and Drugs Act . Other grounds for failure to renew or revocation include improper security measures, not obtaining security clearances for specified personnel, or record keeping that does not comply with the regulations. 

In addition, licenses may be revoked: if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the license was issued under false or misleading pretense; if the producer contravenes legislation; if there are reasonable grounds to believe that product has been diverted to an illicit market or use; or if any of the specified personnel do not hold security clearance. 

Production 

Under the new regulations, only dried marijuana may be sold (under the old regulatory scheme, authorized users could possess marijuana in any number of forms) and must be mailed directly to the patient or his or her health care practitioner. Dried marijuana may also be exported with authorization from Health Canada. There is no limit on the strains that may be produced and no set requirements for pricing. However, each licensed producer must employ a quality assurance person with the necessary technical knowledge to maintain the appropriate quality of dried marijuana. 

The MMPR requires indoor production and storage facilities that are secured by visual perimeter monitoring, restricted access, and other protective measures. Security clearance is required for specified personnel such as the senior person in charge, responsible and alternate persons in charge, each officer and director of the licensed producer, and any individuals authorized to order cannabis seeds on behalf of the licensed producer. 

Marketability 

The ability to effectively market medical marijuana is also an important consideration. Because there is currently no set limit to the number of licenses Health Canada will approve, there is the potential for an influx of producers into the marketplace which may lead to fierce competition for customers. 

Advertising of medical marijuana must be in compliance with the Narcotic Control Regulations as it is still classified as a &#34;controlled substance.&#34; As a result, licensed producers will only be able to market their products to health care practitioners and not to the general public. Producers must also be careful to comply with s.16 of the MMPR, requiring them to include their name as set out in their license on all product labels, advertising, orders, shipping documents, invoices, and other such documents. 

These limitations will not prevent a licensed producer from establishing a brand, promoting the merits of their product, and beginning to differentiate their proprietary strains and techniques. However, because marijuana is a controlled substance, and advertisements cannot be made to the general public, any awareness campaigns or targeted advertising will more likely follow the pharmaceutical advertising model, and less likely to follow the lifestyle-focused style of advertising of medicinal drugs commonly advertised to the public on TV or via the Internet. 

Judicial Challenge 

Any uncertainty surrounding how the new MMPR will work in practice has been increased by recent litigation seeking to declare the new MMPR unconstitutional. In B.C., Neil Allard et al v. HMTQ 7 has challenged the constitutionality of the new regulations under section 7 of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms . Plaintiffs argue that they will not be able to afford the marijuana sold by licensed producers, which is expected to be priced higher than the costs of growing for personal use, and so will either have to let their health suffer or use an illegal means to obtain the drug. An interim injunction was granted March 21, 2014, exempting patients who held valid licenses under the old regulations from compliance with the new scheme, essentially allowing them to continue to grow the marijuana at home. The government has since filed an appeal of this injunction. Similar cases have been brought across Canada. 

Conclusion 

CEN believes that it has built a facility and will use procedures that meet or exceed all established requirements. CEN will use independent reps to introduce its products to doctors. It will obtain documentation to prove that the person to whom products are shipped is the same person named in the medical authorization. An applicant cannot obtain a pre-license inspection of its facility without completing the security clearance. It is our opinion that Bill Chaaban was granted the security clearance as evidenced by the pre-license inspection having been conducted. Health Canada appears to be contending that no security clearance is currently in effect. This contention is in direct conflict with Health Canada&#146;s process and is being argued in the Judicial Review before the Federal Court of Canada because the revocation of a security clearance must follow formal procedures and require due process. Health Canada contends that Mr. Chaaban, a licensed attorney in Canada and the USA, who does not have any criminal convictions or pending indictments known, and who does not consume drugs or alcohol &#147;may be a risk for cannabis to be diverted to the illicit market.&#148; Mr. Chaaban believes this to be a libelous and unfounded allegation and will present the argument before the court. 

CEN Products and Services 

CEN&#146;s planned product-line will include multiple strains and hybrids of medical marihuana for patients, as well as cultivation services for other licensed producers and licensed dealers. The products and services will be designed to enhance patient satisfaction and comfort. 

CEN will have cultivation standards that meet the demands of Health Canada by complying with the MMPR, as well as meet the medical needs of our patients. CEN will utilize its controlled environment that will produce validated, consistent medical marijuana. The patient and health care practitioners will benefit by CEN&#146;s approach of securing and developing treatments via unique strands that are intended to accommodate individual patient needs and cataloging the results. Additionally, CEN will review its products and services on a regular basis, adjusting the offerings once they have passed a research and testing phase. This will allow CEN to provide the best, most-current treatment options for our patients. 

CEN&#146;s organically cultivated medical marijuana will be offered in 1, 3, 5, 10 and 15 gram increments. CEN will engage in a thorough testing phase before bringing new products to the market, while accommodating the demands of patients in need of either smokable or non-smokable forms of medication. The initial product-line will include the following strains and hybrids: 

&#183; 

Indica Dominant Strains : Helps treat pain, stress, muscle spasms and insomnia 

&#183; 

Sativa Dominant Strains : Helps treat mood disorders (depression), headaches, glaucoma and lack of appetite 

&#183; 

&#183; 

Indica/Sativa Hybrids : Helps treat pain, anxiety, lack of appetite and mood disorders (depression). 

&#183; 

&#183; 

&#34;Kush&#34; Strains : Helps treat pain and insomnia 

&#183; 

&#183; 

&#34;Diesel&#34; Strains : Helps treat mood disorders (depression) and anxiety 

&#183; 

&#183;

&#34;Haze&#34; Strains : Helps treat headaches, lack of appetite and mood disorders (depression) 

The selection of strains will evolve based on patient needs and market demands. As research and development continues, CEN will identify the strains that are best-of-breed to provide the best treatment solutions for the patient&#146;s ailment. Through research and development, CEN plans to cultivate and bring new strains to market that have been designed to treat specific medical ailments, and custom tailored to the patient&#146;s needs. 

Education is another major component to CEN&#146;s planned philosophy. CEN will provide classes to educate patients regarding the proper use and handling of medical marijuana. Other courses will educate healthcare practitioners, patients, politicians, law enforcement, and the general public about the beneficial medical uses of marihuana. 

Patient Acquisition and Sales Strategy 

CEN is developing and will continue to develop multiple relationships with national pharmaceutical sales and consulting organizations so as to take advantage of their established healthcare relationships. Given the regulatory limitations imposed on the promotion and marketing of medical marijuana, relationships with the medical profession are necessary and will be aided by the promotion of our educational platforms. 

Healthcare practitioner engagement and education will be the primary focus of CEN&#146;s outreach strategy. Educational programs will include studies and outlets for healthcare practitioners and patients to receive treatment advice in integrative medicine centers. Healthcare practitioners will be engaged by CEN to co-host educational seminars throughout Canada, further advancing and bringing awareness to the benefits of medical marihuana treatments. 

Other Products 

CEN&#146;s initial efforts will be focused on the medical marijuana market. It will also begin to develop industrial hemp products. Industrial hemp has many uses, including paper, textiles, biodegradable plastics, construction, health food, and fuel. It also runs parallel with the &#34;Green Future&#34; objectives that are becoming increasingly popular. Hemp requires little to no pesticides or herbicides, controls erosion of the topsoil, and produces oxygen. Furthermore, hemp can be used to replace many potentially harmful products, such as tree paper (the processing of which uses chlorine bleach, which results in the waste product polychlorinated dibensodioxins, popularly known as dioxins, which are carcinogenic, and contribute to deforestation, cosmetics, and plastics, most of which are petroleum-based and do not decompose easily. The strongest chemical needed to whiten the already light hemp paper is non-toxic hydrogen peroxide. 

In 2014, CEN acquired Hemp Technology, based in New Zealand, for $643,500. The purpose of the acquisition was to obtain and use its knowledge and not for any ongoing business operations. The purchase price was expensed as research and development costs and categorized as an operating expense. During 2014, expenses of $501,869 relating to the individuals associated with Hemp Technology are included in &#147;wages and consulting fees.&#148; 

Intellectual Property 

We have no patents or similar assets. 

Employees 

We have one fulltime employee, Bill Chaaban, who has a five-year employment agreement that was executed in August 2013. We engage consultants to provide us with the services we need to plan and develop our facilities, products and procedures such that we will be in compliance with all requirements of Health Canada if we receive our license. 

&#160; 

