 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Century Aluminum Company is a global producer of primary aluminum and operates aluminum reduction facilities, or "smelters," in the United States and Iceland. Our primary aluminum facilities produce standard grade and value-added primary aluminum products. Our current annual primary aluminum production capacity is approximately 1,013,000 tonnes per year ("tpy"), of which 267,000 tpy was curtailed as of December 31, 2015 . We produced approximately 936,000 tonnes of primary aluminum in 2015 . 

In addition to our primary aluminum assets, we also own a carbon anode production facility located in the Netherlands ("Vlissingen") and hold a 40% interest in Baise Haohai Carbon Co., Ltd. ("BHH"), a joint venture that owns and operates a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. Carbon anodes are used in the production of primary aluminum and both BHH and Vlissingen currently supply carbon anodes to our smelter in Grundartangi, Iceland. 

We operate our business through one reportable segment, primary aluminum. Additional information about our segment reporting and certain geographic information is available in Note 18 Business segments &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Century Aluminum Company is a Delaware corporation with principal executive offices located at One South Wacker Drive, Suite 1000, Chicago, Illinois 60606. 

Strategic Objective 

Our strategic objective is to maximize the financial returns we generate for our stockholders by: (a) optimizing our safety and environmental performance; (b) improving our cost structure for our existing assets by managing costs and improving productivity and efficiency; (c) pursuing upstream investment opportunities in bauxite mining, alumina refining and the production of other key operating supplies; and (d) expanding our primary aluminum business by improving and investing in the facilities we currently own as well as constructing, investing in or acquiring additional capacity. 

Primary Aluminum Facilities 

Overview of Facilities 

We operate three U.S. aluminum smelters, in Hawesville, Kentucky ("Hawesville"), Robards, Kentucky ("Sebree") and Mt. Holly, South Carolina ("Mt. Holly"), and one smelter in Grundartangi, Iceland ("Grundartangi"). In July 2015, we announced the permanent closure of our Ravenswood facility, located adjacent to the Ohio River near Ravenswood, West Virginia. Operation of the Ravenswood facility has been curtailed since 2009. 

Grundartangi 

The Grundartangi facility, located in Grundartangi, Iceland, is a primary aluminum reduction facility owned and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Nordural Grundartangi ehf, and is our most modern facility. Grundartangi is currently in the process of a multi-year expansion project that has brought the annual capacity from 280,000 tonnes to current capacity of 312,000 tonnes (2015 volume) and is expected to increase annual production capacity to approximately 325,000 tonnes. Grundartangi produces standard-grade aluminum and a primary foundry alloy product, which is a value-added product that is sold at a premium to standard-grade. 

Grundartangi operates under various long-term permits and agreements with the Government of Iceland, local municipalities and Faxafloahafnir sf (which operates the harbor at Grundartangi and is jointly owned by several municipalities). In connection with the expansion project, in the fourth quarter of 2015, Grundartangi received a new operating permit that allows annual production of up to 350,000 tonnes. 

Hawesville &#160; 

Hawesville, located adjacent to the Ohio River near Hawesville, Kentucky, is a primary aluminum reduction facility owned and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Century Kentucky, Inc. ("CAKY"). Hawesville has an annual production capacity of approximately 252,000 &#32;tonnes. Hawesville is our largest U.S. smelter and the largest producer of high purity primary aluminum in North America. Four of Hawesville's five potlines are specially configured and operated to produce high purity primary aluminum. The average purity level of primary aluminum produced by these potlines is 99.9%, compared to standard-purity aluminum which is approximately 99.7%. High purity primary aluminum is sold at a premium to standard-purity aluminum. Hawesville&#8217;s specially configured facility is also capable of providing high-conductivity metal used in electrical wire and cable products as well as for certain aerospace applications. In the fourth quarter of 2015, Hawesville curtailed approximately 60% of its capacity. At its reduced capacity, Hawesville is expected to primarily produce high-purity aluminum and provide molten metal to Glencore for ultimate delivery to local customers in 2016. 

Sebree &#160; 

Sebree, located adjacent to the Green River near Robards, Kentucky, is a primary aluminum reduction facility owned and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Century Aluminum Sebree LLC ("Century Sebree"). Sebree has an annual production capacity of approximately 218,000 &#32;tonnes. Sebree produces standard-grade aluminum that is cast into sow and value-added products, including billet, which is a value-added product that is sold at a premium to sow. In 2015, approximately 95% of Sebree's production was value-added products. 

Mt. Holly 

Mt. Holly, located in Goose Creek, South Carolina, is a primary aluminum reduction facility owned and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Century Aluminum of South Carolina, Inc. ("CASC"). Mt. Holly has an annual production capacity of approximately 231,000 tonnes. Mt. Holly is the most recently constructed aluminum reduction facility in the United States. Mt. Holly was operated as a joint venture between CASC and Alcoa until CASC acquired Alcoa's interest in Mt. Holly in December 2014. More information on the acquisition is available in Note 3 Business acquisitions &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Mt. Holly produces standard-grade aluminum that is cast into tee bars as well as several value-added products, including billet and foundry products. These value-added primary aluminum products are sold at a premium to standard-grade primary aluminum. The Mt. Holly facility is currently operating at 50% of capacity while CASC pursues a long-term power solution. See "Supply Contracts &#8212; Electrical Power Supply Agreements" below for further discussion of our power arrangements at Mt. Holly. 

Primary Aluminum Production Capacity 

Our primary aluminum smelters and their respective capacities are shown in the following table: 

Facility 

Location 

Operational 

Annual Production Capacity (tpy) (1) 

Ownership Percentage 

Grundartangi (2) 

Grundartangi, Iceland 

312,000 

100% 

Hawesville 

Hawesville, Kentucky, USA 

252,000 

100% 

Sebree 

Robards, Kentucky, USA 

218,000 

100% 

Mt. Holly (3) 

Goose Creek, South Carolina, USA 

231,000 

100% 

(1) 

The numbers in this column reflect each facility&#8217;s highest annual production for the last five fiscal years through and including the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 . 

(2) 

Grundartangi is currently in the process of a multi-year expansion project that has brought the annual capacity from 280,000 tonnes to current capacity of 312,000 tonnes (2015 volume) and is expected to ultimately increase annual production capacity to approximately 325,000 tonnes. 

(3) 

In December 2014, we acquired the remaining 50.3% ownership stake in the Mt. Holly facility and now own 100% of the facility. 

Primary Aluminum Shipment Volume 

The following table shows our primary aluminum shipment volumes since 2010. 

Primary Aluminum Projects 

Helguvik project 

The Helguvik project is a greenfield project for an aluminum reduction facility in Helguvik, Iceland ("Helguvik" or the "Helguvik project"), owned by our wholly-owned subsidiary Nordural Helguvik ehf. Construction of the Helguvik project is currently curtailed. The Helguvik project site is located approximately 30 miles from the city of Reykjavik, Iceland. 

We commenced construction of the Helguvik project in June 2008. In late 2008, we curtailed construction activity and spending on the project in response to the global financial crisis and deterioration of Icelandic economic conditions, including the financial condition of our contracted power suppliers. Capitalized costs for the project through December 31, 2015 &#32;were approximately $148 million . Construction activity and spending on the project remain curtailed pending confirmation from the contracted power suppliers or potentially other power suppliers that they will deliver the required power per an agreed schedule. See "Supply Contracts &#8212; Electrical Power Supply Agreements" below for further discussion of our power arrangements at Helguvik. 

We currently expect to restart construction activity at Helguvik if and when we are able to achieve a successful resolution of the power supply issues. See Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;&#8212; "Substantial delay in the completion of, or failure to complete, the Helguvik project may increase its cost, subject us to losses and impose other risks to completion that are not foreseeable at this time,&#8221; and &#8220;&#8212; If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible.&#8221; 

In connection with the construction of the Helguvik project, we have entered into an investment agreement with the Government of Iceland governing, among other things, the fiscal regime associated with the project and including a commitment by the Government of Iceland to assist us in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for completion of the 

Helguvik project. We have also entered into a transmission agreement with the national transmission company, Landsnet hf ("Landsnet"), to provide an electrical power transmission system to the Helguvik project. We have also entered into a site and harbor agreement, as well as technology and equipment supply agreements with respect to the Helguvik project. 

We have received a positive opinion from the Icelandic Planning Agency on the Environmental Impact Assessment for the proposed Helguvik smelter as well as an Operating License enabling production of up to 250,000 tpy. 

Carbon Products Facilities 

In addition to our primary aluminum assets, we also own a carbon anode production facility located in Vlissingen, the Netherlands, and a 40% interest in BHH, a joint venture that owns and operates a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. 

Vlissingen 

Vlissingen, located in Vlissingen, the Netherlands, is a carbon anode production facility owned and operated by Century Aluminum Vlissingen B.V. Production at Vlissingen, which had been curtailed by its previous owner, was restarted in late 2013 with an initial annual carbon anode production capacity of 75,000 tonnes. In 2015, we completed our project to expand its annual production capacity to 145,000 tonnes. 

Baise Haohai Carbon Company, Ltd. 

BHH is a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. The facility began operations in 2008. BHH is operated as a joint venture between one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which owns a 40% stake in the company, and Guangxi Qiangqiang Carbon Co., Ltd., which holds the remaining 60% ownership interest and is the operator of this facility. The BHH facility has an annual carbon anode production capacity of 180,000 tonnes and an annual cathode baking and graphitization capacity of 20,000 tonnes. &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 

Carbon Anode and Cathode Production Capacity 

Our carbon anode and cathode production facilities and their respective capacities are shown in the following table: 

Facility 

Location 

Type 

Annual Production Capacity (tpy) (1) 

Ownership Percentage 

Vlissingen 

Vlissingen, the Netherlands 

Carbon anodes 

145,000 

100% 

BHH 

Guangxi Zhuang, China 

Carbon anode, cathode and graphitized products 

180,000 anode; 20,000 cathode/graphitized products 

40% 

(1) The numbers in this column reflect each facility's rated production capacity. 

Pricing 

Primary aluminum is an internationally traded commodity and its price is effectively determined on the London Metal Exchange (the "LME"), or other exchanges, plus any regional delivery premiums, which are generally posted by authoritative sources, and value-added product premiums, which are negotiated between seller and buyer. Our operating results are highly sensitive to changes in the LME price of primary aluminum and the value of regional delivery and product premiums, as well as the cost of electrical power, raw materials and other operating supplies used in production. As a result, from time to time, we assess the appropriateness of mitigating the effects of fluctuations in these items through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments. 

Customer Base 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, we derived approximately 96% of our consolidated sales from Glencore plc and its affiliates (together, "Glencore"). Glencore purchases the aluminum we produce for resale to end users. 

Glencore purchases substantially all of the aluminum produced at our North American smelters pursuant to that certain sales agreement, effective as of December 31, 2014 (the "U.S. Sales Agreement"). Under the U.S. Sales Agreement, Glencore 

purchases our aluminum on a take or pay basis at prices determined by reference to the LME price for primary aluminum, plus the Midwest regional delivery premium (the "Midwest Transaction Price") plus additional negotiated product premiums. The current term of the U.S. Sales Agreement continues through December 31, 2016. 

Glencore has also agreed to purchase substantially all primary aluminum produced at Grundartangi from 2014 through 2017 at market prices, less commitments under existing tolling contracts (the "Glencore Grundartangi Metal Agreement"). The price for aluminum delivered to Glencore under the Glencore Grundartangi Metal Agreement is determined by reference to the LME price for primary aluminum, plus the European Duty Paid premium and any applicable product premiums. We are also party to a tolling agreement with Glencore for 90,000 tpy through July 2016. Under this agreement, Glencore provides Grundartangi alumina for processing and receives primary aluminum in return for tolling fees that are based on the price of primary aluminum. 

Energy, Key Supplies and Raw Materials 

We consume the following key supplies, energy and raw materials in the primary aluminum reduction process: 

&#160; 

&#9679; 

electrical power 

&#9679; 

carbon anodes 

&#9679; 

liquid pitch 

&#160; 

&#9679; 

alumina 

&#9679; 

cathode blocks 

&#9679; 

calcined petroleum coke 

&#160; 

&#9679; 

aluminum fluoride 

&#9679; 

natural gas 

&#9679; 

silicon carbide 

Electrical power, alumina, carbon anodes and labor are the principal components of cost of goods sold. These components together represented over 75% &#32;of our cost of goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2015 . We have long-term contracts to attempt to ensure the future availability of many of our cost components. For a description of certain risks related to our raw materials, supplies and labor, see Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Alumina Supply Agreements 

The majority of the alumina required for our operations is supplied by Glencore under long-term alumina supply agreements for variable amounts based on our requirements. A summary of our alumina supply agreements is provided below: 

Supplier 

Quantity 

Term 

Pricing 

Glencore (1) 

Variable 

Through December 31, 2017 

Variable, LME-based 

Noranda Alumina LLC ("Noranda") 

Approximately 475,000 tpy 

Through December 31, 2016 

Variable, LME-based 

(1) 

Under the terms of this agreement, Glencore will provide alumina supply for all of Century's requirements during the contract term, net of the other existing contractual commitments set forth above. For 2015 and 2016, we agreed to price all of our requirements under this agreement based on a published alumina index. 

Electrical Power Supply Agreements 

The table below summarizes our long-term power supply agreements: 

&#160; 

Facility 

&#160; 

Supplier 

&#160; 

Term 

&#160; 

Pricing 

Grundartangi 

Landsvirkjun 

Through 2019 - 2036 

Variable rate based on the LME price for primary aluminum 

Orkuveita Reykjav&#237;kur ("OR") 

HS Orka hf ("HS") 

Hawesville 

Kenergy Corporation ("Kenergy") 

Through December 31, 2023 

Variable rate based on market prices 

Sebree 

Kenergy 

Through December 31, 2023 

Variable rate based on market prices 

Mt. Holly 

South Carolina Public Service Authority 

Through December 31, 2018 

Variable rate based in part on a fixed price, with fuel cost adjustment clause and in part on natural gas prices 

Helguvik 

OR 

Approximately 25 years from the dates of each phase of power delivery under the respective power agreements 

Variable rate based on the LME price for primary aluminum 

HS 

Electrical power represents the largest component of our cost of goods sold. We may enter into forward contracts or other hedging arrangements to mitigate our electrical power or natural gas price risk, but did not hold any such contracts as of December 31, 2015. The paragraphs below summarize the sources of power and the long-term power arrangements for each of our operations. 

Grundartangi . Power is supplied to Grundartangi from hydroelectric and geothermal sources under long-term power purchase agreements with HS, Landsvirkjun and OR at prices indexed to the price of primary aluminum, which provides a "natural hedge" of our largest production cost. The expiration dates of these power purchase agreements range from 2019 through 2036 (subject to extension). The agreements contain take-or-pay obligations with respect to a significant percentage of the total committed and available power under each agreement. 

Hawesville . CAKY is party to a power supply arrangement with Kenergy and Big Rivers Electric Company ("Big Rivers") which provides market-based power to the Hawesville smelter. Under this arrangement, the power companies purchase power on the open market and pass it through to Hawesville at Midcontinent Independent System Operator ("MISO") pricing plus transmission and other costs incurred by Kenergy. &#32;&#32;Effective January 1, 2015, new agreements were approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission pursuant to which EDF Trading North America, LLC ("EDF") replaced Big Rivers as the market participant with MISO under this arrangement. 

Sebree . Century Sebree is party to a power supply arrangement with Kenergy and Big Rivers which provides market-based power to the Sebree smelter. Similar to the arrangement at Hawesville, the power companies purchase power on the open market and pass it through to Sebree at MISO pricing plus transmission and other costs incurred by Kenergy. &#32;&#32;Effective January 1, 2015, new agreements were approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission pursuant to which EDF replaced Big Rivers as our market participant with MISO under this arrangement. 

Mt. Holly . CASC's power agreement with the South Carolina Public Service Authority ("Santee Cooper") for power to the Mt. Holly smelter expired on December 31, 2015. Under this contract, 25% of Mt. Holly's electric power requirements was supplied from Santee Cooper's generation at cost-of-service based rates and 75% was supplied from third-party generation at rates based on natural gas prices. In 2015, the third-party generation rates were substantially less than Santee Cooper's cost-of-service rates. On December 18, 2015, CASC reached an agreement with Santee Cooper to operate Mt. Holly at 50% capacity while CASC worked on a long-term solution to access market power for all of Mt. Holly's power supply requirements. Under this agreement, Santee Cooper is continuing to service 25% of the Mt. Holly load at a standard cost-based industrial rate. The remaining 75% of the power required to serve Mt. Holly is sourced from a third party supplier from generation that is outside Santee Cooper&#8217;s service territory at market prices that are tied to natural gas prices. The agreement with Santee Cooper has a term through December 31, 2018 but can be terminated by Mt. Holly on 60 days' notice; the current third party supply contract has a term through May 31, 2016. See Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;&#8212; "If we are unable to enter into a new power contract for Mt. Holly, we may choose, or be forced, or curtail operations at the plant." 

Helguvik . Nordural Helguvik ehf is party to power purchase agreements with HS and OR for the provision of power to the Helguvik project. These power purchase agreements provide power at LME-based variable rates and contain take-or-pay obligations with respect to a significant percentage of the total committed and available power under such agreements. The agreements contain certain conditions to HS&#8217;s and OR&#8217;s obligations. HS (with respect to all phases) and OR (with respect to all phases other than the first phase) have alleged that certain of these conditions have not been satisfied. The first stage of power under the OR power purchase agreement (approximately 47.5 &#32;MW) became available in the fourth quarter of 2011 and is currently being utilized at Grundartangi. In July 2014, HS commenced arbitration proceedings against Nordural Helguvik ehf seeking, among other things, an order declaring that the conditions to the power contract have not been fulfilled and that the power contract is therefore no longer valid. Nordural Helguvik ehf is in discussions with both HS and OR with respect to such conditions and other matters pertaining to these agreements. See Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;&#8212; "If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible.&#8221; 

In June 2014, Nordural Helguvik ehf entered into a supplemental power contract with OR which will expire in October 2036 (or upon the occurrence of certain earlier events) and will provide Grundartangi or Helguvik with supplemental power at LME-based rates, as may be requested from Grundartangi or Helguvik from time to time. &#32; 

See Note 14 Commitments and contingencies &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information concerning our power arrangements. See Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;&#8212; "If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible." 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,778 employees. 

Labor Agreements 

The bargaining unit employees at our Grundartangi, Vlissingen, Hawesville and Sebree smelters, representing approximately &#32; 63% &#32; of our total workforce, are represented by labor unions. Our employees at Mt. Holly are not represented by a labor union. 

A summary of our key labor agreements is provided below: 

Facility 

Organization 

Term 

Grundartangi 

Icelandic labor unions 

Through December 31, 2019 

Hawesville 

USW 

Through April 1, 2020 

Sebree 

USW 

Through October 28, 2019 

Vlissingen (1) 

FME 

Through May 1, 2015 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;(1) Labor contract negotiations are pending with the Federation for the Metal and Electrical Industry ("FME"). 

84% of Grundartangi&#8217;s workforce is represented by five labor unions, governed by a labor agreement that establishes wages and work rules for covered employees. A new agreement was entered into in March 2015 and is effective through December 31, 2019. 

100% of Vlissingen's workforce is represented by the FME. The FME negotiates working conditions with trade unions on behalf of its members. The Vlissingen labor agreement expired on May 1, 2015. Since such time, we have been operating under the terms of the expired agreement while we engage in negotiations with the FME regarding the terms of a new agreement. 

53% of our U.S. based workforce is represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union ("USW"). CAKY's Hawesville employees represented by the USW are under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on April 1, 2020. Century Sebree's employees represented by USW are under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on October 28, 2019. 

Competition 

The market for primary aluminum is global, and demand for aluminum varies widely from region to region. We compete with U.S. and international companies in the aluminum industry as well as with materials such as steel, copper, carbon fiber, composites, plastic and glass, each of which may be substituted for aluminum in certain applications. 

Our Hawesville plant is located adjacent to Southwire, a large purchaser of premium grade, high-purity aluminum for electrical wire and cable products. This location allows Hawesville to deliver a portion of its production in molten form, saving casting costs, and providing a competitive advantage over other potential suppliers. In addition, Hawesville is the largest producer of high purity aluminum in North America. 

We believe that the proximity of Iceland to European markets provides a competitive advantage for Grundartangi including logistical benefits and freight savings compared to our competitors outside the European Economic Area ("EEA"). As a member of the EEA, Iceland has duty free access to these European markets. Our U.S. facilities benefit from the proximity to our U.S. customer base, allowing us to capture the Midwest regional delivery premium and providing a competitive advantage in freight costs over our competitors. 

For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors &#32;&#8212; "We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate." 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

We operate in one reportable segment, primary aluminum. Additional information about our segment reporting and certain geographic information is available in Note 18 Business segments &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts for compliance with those laws and regulations. In addition, some of our past manufacturing activities have resulted in environmental consequences that require remedial measures. Under certain environmental laws, which may impose liability regardless of fault, we may be liable for the costs of remediation of contaminated property, including our current and formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas, or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. We believe, based on currently available information, that our current environmental liabilities are not likely to have a material adverse effect on Century. However, we cannot predict the requirements of future environmental laws and future requirements at current or formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas or the outcome of certain existing litigation to which we are a party. Such future requirements or events may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. More information concerning our environmental contingencies can be found in Note 14 Commitments and contingencies &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or have rights to use a number of intellectual property rights relating to various aspects of our operations. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any of these intellectual property rights. 

Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act 

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (&#8220;ITRA&#8221;), effective August 10, 2012, added a new subsection (r) to Section 13 of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers that file periodic reports with the SEC to disclose in their annual and quarterly reports whether, during the reporting period, they or any of their &#8220;affiliates&#8221; (as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act) have knowingly engaged in specified activities or transactions relating to Iran, including activities not prohibited by U.S. law and conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with applicable laws. Issuers must also file a notice with the SEC if any disclosable activity under ITRA has been included in an annual or quarterly report. 

Because the SEC defines the term &#8220;affiliate&#8221; broadly, our largest stockholder may be considered an affiliate of the Company despite the fact that the Company has no control over its largest stockholder&#8217;s actions or the actions of its affiliates. As such, 

pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Exchange Act, the Company hereby discloses the following information provided by our largest stockholder regarding transactions or dealings with entities controlled by the Government of Iran (the &#8220;GOI&#8221;): 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, a non-U.S. affiliate of the largest stockholder of the Company (the "non-U.S. Stockholder Affiliate&#8221;) entered into sales contracts for agricultural products for delivery to Iranian entities wholly or majority owned by the GOI. The non-U.S. Stockholder Affiliate performed its obligations under the contract in compliance with applicable sanction laws and, where required, with the necessary prior approvals by the relevant governmental authorities. 

The gross revenue of the non-U.S Stockholder Affiliate related to the contract did not exceed the value of USD $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The non-U.S. Stockholder Affiliate does not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis, but estimates that the net profit attributable to the contract would not exceed a small fraction of the gross revenue from such contract. It is not possible to determine accurately the precise net profit attributable to such contract. 

The contract disclosed above does not violate applicable sanctions laws administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, and is not the subject of any enforcement action under Iran sanction laws. 

In compliance with applicable economic sanctions and in conformity with US secondary sanctions, the non-U.S. Stockholder Affiliate expects to continue to engage in similar activities in the future. 

The Company and its global subsidiaries had no transactions or activities requiring disclosure under ITRA, nor were we involved in the transactions described in this section. As of the date of this report, the Company is not aware of any other activity, transaction or dealing by it or any of its affiliates during the year ended December 31, 2015 that requires disclosure in this report under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act. 

Available Information 

Additional information about Century may be obtained from our website, which is located at www.centuryaluminum.com. Our website provides access to periodic filings we have made through the EDGAR filing system of the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. We also make available on our website a copy of our code of ethics that applies to all employees and ownership reports filed on Forms 3, 4 and 5 by our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. Reports that we have filed with the SEC are also available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we will make available free of charge copies of our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K upon request. Requests for these documents can be made by contacting our Investor Relations Department by mail at: One South Wacker Drive, Suite 1000, Chicago, IL 60606, or by phone at: (312) 696-3101. Information contained in our website is not incorporated by reference in, and should not be considered a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

