 Item 1. Business Overview 

We are a biomedical products company focused on developing and commercializing the INTERCEPT Blood System to enhance blood safety. The INTERCEPT Blood System, which is based on our proprietary technology for controlling biological replication, is designed to reduce blood-borne pathogens in donated blood components intended for transfusion. 

Our INTERCEPT Blood System is for use with three blood components: plasma, platelets, and red blood cells. The INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets, or platelet system, and the INTERCEPT Blood System for plasma, or plasma system, have received a broad range of regulatory approvals, including but not limited to U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval in the United States of America (&#147;U.S.&#148;) and Class III CE marks in the European Union and other jurisdictions that recognize CE mark approval, and are being marketed and sold in a number of countries around the world, including the U.S.; certain countries in Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States, or CIS, the Middle East, and Latin America and selected countries in other regions of the world. We sell both the platelet and plasma systems using our direct sales force and through distributors. If we are unable to gain widespread commercial adoption in markets where our blood safety products are approved for commercialization, including in the United States, we will have difficulties achieving profitability. 

The INTERCEPT Blood System for red blood cells, or the red blood cell system, is currently in development. In late 2014 and early 2015, we announced that both our U.S. Phase II recovery and lifespan study of the red blood cell system and our European Phase III clinical trial of the red blood cell system for acute anemia patients met their respective primary endpoints. Based on the results of the European Phase III acute anemia clinical trial, we plan to file for CE mark approval of the red blood cell system in the European Union in the second half of 2016. 

In order to successfully commercialize all of our products and product candidates, we will be required to conduct significant research, development, preclinical and clinical evaluation, commercialization and regulatory compliance activities for our products and product candidates, which, together with anticipated increased selling, general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial losses. Accordingly, we may never achieve a profitable level of operations in the future. 

&#160; 

We were incorporated in California in 1991 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1996. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cerus Europe B.V., was formed in the Netherlands in 2006. Information regarding our revenue, net loss, and total assets for the last three fiscal years can be found in the consolidated financial statements and related notes found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Product Development 

Background 

The INTERCEPT Blood System is designed to broadly target and inactivate blood-borne pathogens, such as viruses (for example, HIV, West Nile, SARS, hepatitis B and C), bacteria and parasites, as well as potentially harmful white blood cells, while preserving the therapeutic properties of platelet, plasma and red blood cell transfusion products. The INTERCEPT Blood System has been shown to inactivate a broad array of pathogens and has the potential to reduce the risk of transfusion related transmission of pathogens for which testing is not completely effective, available or is not performed. We believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System also has the potential to inactivate most new pathogens before they are identified and before tests are developed and adopted commercially to detect their presence in donated blood. 

Products, Product Candidates and Development Activities 

The following table identifies our products, product candidates and product development activities and their current status: 

&#160;

Product or Product Candidate Under Development 

&#160; Product or Development Status 

INTERCEPT Blood System&#151;Platelets 

&#160; &#149; Commercialized in in the U.S. and a number of countries in Europe, the CIS, the Middle East, and selected countries in other regions around the world 

INTERCEPT Blood System&#151;Plasma 

&#160; &#149; Commercialized in the U.S. and a number of countries in Europe, the CIS, the Middle East, and selected countries in other regions around the world 

INTERCEPT Blood System&#151;Red Blood Cells 

&#160; &#149; Phase I clinical trial completed in 2010 

&#149; European Phase III clinical trial for acute anemia and U.S. Phase II recovery and lifespan study completed in 2014 

&#149; European chronic anemia clinical trial ongoing 

&#149; European CE mark submission planned for second half of 2016 

&#149; Further U.S. in vitro studies planned 

INTERCEPT Blood System for Platelets and Plasma 

The platelet system and plasma system are designed to inactivate blood-borne pathogens in platelets and plasma donated for transfusion. Both systems received CE mark approval in Europe and are currently marketed and sold in a number of countries around the world including the U.S., Europe, the CIS, the Middle East and selected countries in other regions of the world. Separate approvals for use of INTERCEPT-treated platelet and plasma products have been obtained in France and Switzerland. In Germany and Austria, where approvals must be obtained by individual blood centers for use of INTERCEPT-treated platelets and plasma, several centers have obtained such approvals for use of INTERCEPT-treated platelets and one center has obtained such approval for use of INTERCEPT-treated plasma. Many countries outside of Europe accept the CE mark and have varying additional administrative or regulatory processes that must be completed before the platelet system or plasma system can be made commercially available. In general, these processes do not require additional clinical trials. Regardless, some potential customers may desire to conduct their own clinical studies before adopting the platelet system or plasma system. 

&#160; 

The FDA has approved the platelet system for ex vivo preparation of pathogen-reduced apheresis platelet components in order to reduce the risk of transfusion-transmitted infection, or TTI, including sepsis, and to potentially reduce the risk of transfusion-associated graft versus host disease. As part of the FDA&#146;s approval of the platelet system, we are required to successfully conduct and complete a post-approval haemovigilance study to evaluate the incidence of acute lung injury following transfusion of INTERCEPT treated platelets. The first patient enrolled in that study in December 2015. The FDA has also approved the plasma system for ex vivo preparation of plasma in order to reduce the risk of TTI when treating patients requiring therapeutic plasma transfusion. 

Although we are commercializing the plasma and platelet systems in the U.S. and have announced customer contracts for the sale of the INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets and plasma, our commercial activities for 2016 in the U.S. will continue to be focused on supporting initial customer adoption and implementation. Prior to broader customer adoption in the U.S., U.S.-based blood centers will need to complete their process validations and obtain site-specific licenses from the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, or CBER, before making INTERCEPT-treated blood products available to their interstate hospital customers. Until those licenses are obtained, U.S. blood centers will be limited to sales to hospital customers within the state in which the INTERCEPT-treated platelets or plasma are processed. Further, the hospital customers of these blood centers will need to go through the administrative process of generating internal tracking codes to integrate INTERCEPT-treated products into their inventories, which may further delay customer adoption in the U.S. In addition, in order to address the entire market in the U.S., we will need to develop, test and obtain FDA approval of additional configurations of the platelet system. For example, in the U.S., we understand a significant number of platelet concentrates are derived from larger volumes collected from apheresis donors split into three therapeutic transfusable doses, or triple doses. Future configurations of the platelet system will be needed to treat platelet donations with such processing parameters. In addition, we understand that a significant portion of the U.S. blood centers store their platelet components suspended in 100% plasma. Further, we estimate that the majority of platelets used in the U.S. are collected by apheresis, which is part of our FDA-approved label for the platelet system, though a significant minority are prepared from pooled random donor platelets derived from whole blood collections. In order to gain FDA approval for a pathogen reduction system compatible with triple dose collections, platelets suspended in 100% plasma, and random donor platelets, we will need to perform additional product development and testing, including additional clinical trials, and will need to obtain FDA approval of a premarket application, or PMA ,supplement. In this regard, we submitted a PMA supplement to seek approval of an expanded label claim to support platelets suspended in 100% plasma in the second half of 2015 and we anticipate an FDA decision on the submission by the end of the first quarter of 2016. The remainder of these development activities will increase our costs significantly and may not be successful. Our failure to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approvals of these new configurations could significantly limit revenues from sales of the platelet system. 

We have been performing a Phase I clinical study protocol under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to treat plasma derived from convalesced patients that were previously infected with the Ebola virus and have recovered from the disease according to the criteria set by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The transfusion of convalesced plasma from Ebola survivors is believed to pass on antibodies to the disease from the survivor to the recipient of the plasma transfusion. INTERCEPT use under this IDE is limited to pathogen reduction claims that rely on existing clinical data that we have regarding reduction of certain pathogens in donated plasma, and we do not have any clinical or commercial data on the efficacy of INTERCEPT to inactivate the Ebola virus and therefore do not know the effectiveness of INTERCEPT to inactivate the Ebola virus. In addition, we have been performing a separate, expanded use IDE, using INTERCEPT to treat platelet donations in areas of the U.S. that had experienced outbreaks of the chikungunya and dengue viruses. Both of these studies are on-going and are expected to be completed within the next year. 

INTERCEPT Blood System for Red Blood Cells 

The red blood cell system is designed to inactivate blood-borne pathogens in red blood cells donated for transfusion. We completed a series of in vitro and in vivo tests with the red blood cell system, including 

&#160; 

successfully completing recovery and survival studies measuring red cell recovery twenty-four hours after transfusion. Previously, we terminated Phase III clinical trials for acute and chronic anemia using a prior generation of the red blood cell system due to the detection of antibody reactivity to INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells in two patients in the trial for chronic anemia. The antibody eventually cleared and the patients had no adverse health consequences. After unblinding the data from the original Phase III clinical trials, we found that we had met the primary end-point in the clinical trial for acute anemia. We evaluated the antibodies detected and developed process changes to diminish the likelihood of antibody reactivity in red blood cells treated with our modified process. There has been no antibody reactivity associated with INTERCEPT-treated red blood cells in any of the subsequent configurations, studies or trials we have completed since modifying the process used in the red blood cell system. Accordingly, we received authorization from European regulators to proceed with Phase III clinical trials for acute anemia and, separately, chronic anemia. Although the Phase III clinical trial of the red blood cell system in Europe for chronic anemia patients is ongoing, we successfully completed the Phase III clinical trial of the red blood cell system for acute anemia patients and plan to submit for CE mark approval of the red blood cell system in the second half of 2016. 

In January 2015, we announced that the completed Phase III clinical trial of red blood cells treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System for acute anemia in cardiovascular surgery patients met its primary endpoint, with preliminary analysis demonstrating that the mean hemoglobin content (53.1g) of INTERCEPT-treated red blood cell components, or RBCs, on day 35 of storage met the protocol-defined criteria for equivalence based on the inferiority margin of 5g compared to conventional RBCs (55.8g). The randomized, double-blind, controlled, multi-center Phase III clinical trial of the red blood cell system evaluated the efficacy of the red blood cell system to process RBCs with quality and mean hemoglobin content (&#62;40 g) suitable to support transfusion according to the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. The blood components were transfused to 51 cardiovascular surgery patients at two German clinical trial sites to evaluate transfusion efficacy and overall safety. There were no clinically relevant trends in severe or serious treatment related adverse events by system organ class. The observed adverse events were within the expected spectrum of co-morbidity and mortality for patients of similar age and with advanced cardiovascular diseases undergoing cardiovascular surgery requiring red cell transfusion. No patients exhibited an immune response to INTERCEPT-treated RBCs. Based on the results of this trial, we plan to file for CE mark approval in the European Union in the second half of 2016. We understand that while the acute anemia Phase III clinical trial in Europe may be sufficient to receive CE mark approval in the European Union, we may need to generate additional safety data from commercial use and/or achieve a successful outcome in the ongoing chronic anemia Phase III clinical trial for our red blood cell system in order to achieve broad market acceptance. As part of our development and chemistry, manufacturing and control, or CMC, activities, we will need to complete a number of in vitro studies, finalize development of the final commercial configuration of the red blood cell system and manufacture and validate sufficient quantities of the final red blood cell system prior to receiving any regulatory approvals in Europe. 

In the U.S., we successfully completed a Phase II recovery and lifespan study and we will likely need to undertake additional development activities, including Phase III clinical trials, before we would be able to potentially obtain approval for INTERCEPT-treated RBCs in the U.S. We plan to complete certain other prerequisites, as well as to complete our development and CMC activities and planned CE mark submission, before proposing a Phase III clinical trial protocol for the red blood cell system in support of potential regulatory approval in the United States. 

Additional information regarding our interactions with the FDA, and potential future clinical development of the INTERCEPT Blood System in Europe and in the U.S. can be found under &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the risk factor titled &#147;Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by a country&#146;s regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue in that country. Our investigational red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development.&#148; 

&#160; 

Information regarding our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 can be found in &#147;Item 7&#151; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; , and &#147; Financial Statement Schedules&#151;Financial Statements &#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

INTERCEPT Blood System Technology 

Both our platelet system and plasma system employ the same technology. Platelet or plasma components collected from blood donors are transferred into plastic INTERCEPT disposable kits and are mixed with our proprietary compound, amotosalen, a small molecule compound that has an affinity for nucleic acid. 

The disposable kits are then placed in an illumination device, or illuminator, where the mixture is exposed to ultra-violet A, or UVA, light. If pathogens such as viruses, bacteria or parasites, as well as leukocytes, or white cells, are present in the platelet or plasma components, the energy from the UVA light causes the amotosalen to bond with the nucleic acid. Since platelets and plasma do not rely on nucleic acid for therapeutic efficacy, the INTERCEPT Blood System is designed to preserve the therapeutic function of the platelet and plasma components when used in human transfusions. 

The ability of amotosalen to form both cross-links between strands of nucleic acid and links to single nucleic acid strands results in a strong chemical bond between the amotosalen and the nucleic acid of the pathogens. The presence of these bonds is designed to prevent replication of the nucleic acid within pathogens, effectively inactivating the pathogens. A high level of inactivation has been demonstrated in a broad range of pathogens studied by us and others in laboratory testing. For instance, INTERCEPT has demonstrated inactivation of a number of single stranded nucleic acid-based viruses such as HIV, hepatitis B, hepatitis C (using a model virus), West Nile, chikungunya and certain influenza viruses. 

Following the inactivation process, residual amotosalen and by-products are reduced by more than 99% through use of a compound adsorption device, which is an integrated component of the disposable kit. We have performed extensive toxicology testing on the residual amotosalen and its by-products and good safety margins have been demonstrated. Any remaining amotosalen which may be transfused, should any exist, is rapidly excreted by humans. 

Leukocytes, also known as white blood cells, are typically present in platelet and plasma components collected for transfusion and can cause adverse transfusion reactions as well as an often fatal disease called graft-versus host disease. Leukocytes, like pathogens, rely on nucleic acid for replication and cellular function. The INTERCEPT Blood System, with its combination of the amotosalen and UVA light, is designed to inactivate leukocytes in the same manner it inactivates pathogens. 

Like the platelet and plasma systems, the red blood cell system is designed to prevent pathogen replication by using a small molecule additive compound to form bonds with nucleic acid in pathogens that may be present in donated red blood cell collections. The red blood cell system is designed to preserve the therapeutic qualities of the red blood cells, which, like platelets and plasma, do not rely on nucleic acid for their therapeutic efficacy. The red blood cell system uses another of our proprietary compounds, amustaline. Unlike the platelet and plasma systems, the chemical bonds from amustaline are not triggered by UVA light, but instead, by the pH level of the red blood cell components. After mixture with the red blood cell components in plastic disposable kits and resulting nucleic-acid bonding, amustalineis designed to rapidly break down into a form that is no longer chemically reactive with nucleic acid. As with the platelet and plasma systems, a high level of inactivation in a broad range of pathogens has been demonstrated with the red blood cell system in the clinical setting. We plan on conducting additional pathogen-inactivation studies of the red blood cell system, broadening our understanding of the pathogens the system may be able to inactivate. 

By treating blood components with INTERCEPT within a day of collection, the inactivation of bacteria prevents bacterial growth that could create increased risk of inflammatory response or dangerous levels of endotoxins. 

&#160; 

Extensive clinical testing has been done on platelet and plasma products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System, as well as post-marketing haemovigilance studies of the treated blood products in routine use. 

We believe that, due to their mechanisms of action, the platelet system, plasma system, and red blood cell system will potentially inactivate blood-borne pathogens that have not yet been tested with our systems, including emerging and future threats to the blood supply. We do not claim, however, that our INTERCEPT Blood System will inactivate all pathogens, including prions, and our inactivation claims are limited to those contained in our product specifications. There can also be no assurance that INTERCEPT will inactivate even those pathogens where claims exist, in every instance or under every processing condition. 

Investment in Aduro Biotech 

In connection with the agreements to license the immunotherapy technologies to Aduro Biotech Inc., or Aduro, in 2009, we received shares of preferred stock of Aduro, a privately held company at that time. Pursuant to these license agreements, we were eligible to receive a 1% royalty fee on any future sales resulting from the licensed technology. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 or 2013, we have not received any royalty payments from Aduro pursuant to these license agreements. We historically accounted for the investment under the cost method of accounting with a net carrying value of zero. In April 2015, Aduro&#146;s common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol &#147;ADRO&#148;. At the time of Aduro&#146;s initial public offering, our preferred shares in Aduro converted to 396,700 shares of common stock, and the fair value of the our investment became readily determinable and, as a result became a marketable equity security. Therefore, we no longer account for the investment in Aduro under the cost basis method of accounting. We now reflect the investment in Aduro as an available-for-sale security included as an investment in marketable equity securities on our consolidated balance sheet (Note 4) and will adjust the carrying value of this investment to fair value each quarterly reporting period, with changes in fair value recorded within other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. William Greenman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a member of the Board of Directors of Aduro in his individual capacity and does not represent our interests. 

Manufacturing and Supply 

We have used, and intend to continue to use, third parties to manufacture and supply the devices, disposable kits and inactivation compounds that make up the INTERCEPT Blood System for use in clinical trials and for commercialization. We rely solely on Fresenius Kabi AG, or Fresenius, for the manufacture of INTERCEPT Blood System disposable kits and on other contract manufacturers for the production of our inactivation compounds, compound adsorption components of the disposable kits and illuminators used in the INTERCEPT Blood System. We currently do not have alternate manufacturers for the components in our products or product candidates beyond those that we currently rely on, but we are currently in the process of identifying potential alternate manufacturers. In October 2015, we amended and restated our manufacturing and supply agreement with Fresenius with the new terms effective July 1, 2015. Under the amended agreement, Fresenius is obligated to sell, and we are obligated to purchase finished disposable kits for the platelet, plasma and red blood cell systems from Fresenius for both clinical and commercial use. The amended and restated agreement permits us to purchase platelet, plasma and red blood cell systems from third parties to the extent necessary to maintain supply qualifications with such third parties or where local or regional manufacturing is needed to obtain product registrations or sales. Pricing terms are initially fixed and decline at specified annual production levels. The amended and restated agreement also contemplates that we and Fresenius will jointly fund and collaborate on certain specified initiatives focused on new product development or enhancements, potential implementation of automation, installation of new equipment, capacity expansion and cost reduction. We are required to make contributions toward those joint collaboration projects in certain specified installment amounts. In addition, we will make a one-time, lump sum payment, or the Milestone Payment, to Fresenius at the earlier of achievement of certain production volumes or a specified mutually agreed date. Under the amended and restated agreement, we are no longer required to make royalty payments to Fresenius for the sale of products after June 30, 2015. The term of the amended and restated manufacturing and supply agreement with Fresenius extends through July 1, 

&#160; 

2025, and will automatically renew for successive additional two year periods unless terminated by either party upon two years&#146; prior written notice, in the case of the initial term, or one year prior written notice, in the case of any renewal term. We and Fresenius each have normal and customary termination rights, including termination for material breach. 

Components of compound adsorption devices used in platelet and plasma disposable kits are manufactured by Porex Corporation, or Porex. Under our supply agreement with Porex, we are obligated to meet certain annual purchase order requirements. The term of our supply agreement with Porex extends through December 31, 2016. We are party to a development agreement with another manufacturer for the development of compound adsorption devices. Although we are actively seeking to develop alternative manufacturers and components, commercially viable alternatives are likely at least a year away. 

We also have contracts with suppliers of raw materials used to make the compound adsorption devices, which includes such companies as Brotech Corporation d/b/a Purolite Company, or Purolite. Our supply agreement with Purolite extends through April 2021. 

Pursuant to a contract that we and NOVA Biomedical Corporation, or NOVA, entered into in September 2008, NOVA is manufacturing illuminators for us. The term of our agreement with NOVA automatically renews for successive one year terms each September in the event neither party delivers written notice of its intent to terminate twelve months prior to each September renewal date. We do not currently have plans to terminate our agreement with NOVA and believe that NOVA currently plans to continue operating under the agreement for the foreseeable future. 

We operate with an amended manufacturing and supply agreement with Ash Stevens, Inc., or Ash Stevens, for the synthesis of amotosalen, the inactivation compound used in our platelet and plasma systems. Under this amended agreement, we are not subject to minimum annual purchase requirements. However, if specified quantities of amotosalen are not purchased in any year, we are required to pay a maintenance fee of up to $50,000 for such year. We have incurred these maintenance fees in the past. The original term of the amended manufacturing and supply agreement with Ash Stevens extended through December 31, 2015, and has automatically renewed for two years and will continue to automatically renew for successive two year periods, unless terminated by either party upon providing at least one year prior written notice, in our case, or at least two years prior written notice, in the case of Ash Stevens. Neither party has delivered notice of its intent to terminate the agreement. 

We and our contract manufacturers, including Fresenius and NOVA, purchase certain raw materials for our disposable kits, inactivation compounds, materials and parts associated with compound adsorption devices and UVA illuminators from a limited number of suppliers. Some of our suppliers require minimum annual purchase amounts. While we believe that there are alternative sources of supply for such materials, parts and devices, we have not validated or qualified any alternate manufacturers. As such, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for any of the raw materials, parts and devices, if required, will likely not be accomplished quickly and could involve significant additional costs and potential regulatory reviews. For example, we understand that certain plastics used to make INTERCEPT disposable kits will only be available for a finite period of time. As a result, we and our manufacturers have identified alternate plastics but will need to qualify and validate those plastics before we can utilize them in commercial manufacturing. 

Marketing, Sales and Distribution 

The market for the INTERCEPT Blood System, including the U.S. market, is dominated by a relatively small number of blood collection organizations. Accordingly, there may be an extended period during which some potential U.S.-based customers may first choose to validate our technology or run experience studies themselves before deciding to adopt the system for commercial use, which may never occur. The American Red Cross 

&#160; 

represents the largest single portion of the blood collection market in the United States. While we believe adoption of the INTERCEPT Blood System will afford the American Red Cross with many benefits, we cannot guarantee the volume or timing of commercial purchases that the American Red Cross may make, if any, under our multi-year commercial agreement that we and the American Red Cross entered into in February 2016. In many countries in Western Europe and in Japan, various national blood transfusion services or Red Cross organizations collect, store and distribute virtually all of their respective nations&#146; blood and blood components supply. The largest European markets for our products are in Germany, France, and England. 

In Germany, decisions on product adoption are made on a regional or blood center-by-blood center basis. While obtaining CE marks allow us to sell the platelet and plasma systems to blood centers in Germany, blood centers in Germany must still obtain both local manufacturing approval and national marketing authorization from the Paul Ehrlich Institute or PEI, a German governmental regulatory body overseeing the marketing authorization of certain medical products, before being allowed to sell platelet and plasma components treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System to transfusing hospitals and physicians. To date, several blood centers in Germany have received such requisite approvals and authorizations for the platelet system and one blood center has received such approval for the plasma system. Given the competitive nature of the German blood banking market, pricing for blood components is relatively low compared to other markets. This dynamic, in turn, requires us to focus our marketing efforts on the potential economic and logistical benefits of using INTERCEPT compared to conventional blood components as well as the potential safety benefits of INTERCEPT-treated blood components. 

In France, broad product adoption is dependent on a central decision by the &#201;tablissement Fran&#231;ais du Sang, or EFS, a public organization responsible for all collection, testing preparation and distribution of blood products in France, and then on a broad-based national supply contract being awarded. In December 2015, we entered into a new two-year framework contract with the EFS to supply platelet and plasma disposable kits. The structure of this contract differs from our previous contract with EFS and we are currently in the process of negotiating a sub-contract to the framework contract which will define prices and volumes. We cannot provide any assurance that terms, including the pricing or committed volumes, if any, of the new sub-contract will be equivalent or superior to the terms under our prior contract. If the final commercial terms of the sub-contract are less favorable than the terms under our prior contract, our financial results may be adversely impacted. 

In England, decisions on product adoption are centralized in the National Blood Service, or NHSBT, which collects, tests, processes and supplies blood products to hospitals in England and North Wales. The National Blood Service has implemented and used bacterial detection for platelets for the past several years instead of pathogen inactivation. More recently, the National Blood Service has implemented the INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets in one of its centers for validation of the technology. In July 2015, the National Blood Service issued a public tender to solicit bids for both pathogen inactivation and bacterial detection, to which we responded. In December 2015, the National Blood Service announced that it had terminated the potential tender for pathogen inactivation. We do not know when, if ever, the NHBST will consider adoption of a product for pathogen reduction, including INTERCEPT. 

In Japan, the Japanese Red Cross controls a significant majority of blood centers and exerts a high degree of influence on the adoption and use of blood safety measures in Japan. The Japanese Red Cross has been reviewing preclinical and clinical data on pathogen reduction of blood over a number of years and has yet to make a formal determination to adopt any pathogen reduction approach. We also understand that the Japanese Red Cross has begun formal evaluation of a competing technology. Before the Japanese Red Cross considers our products, we understand that we may need to complete certain product configuration changes, which are currently under development but may not be economically or technologically feasible for us to complete. 

Market adoption of our products is affected by blood center and healthcare facility budgets and the availability of reimbursement from governments, managed care payors, such as insurance companies, and/or other third party payors. In many jurisdictions, budget and reimbursement discussions generally occur among blood centers, 

&#160; 

healthcare facilities such as hospitals, national or regional ministries of health and private payors. Even if a particular blood center is prepared to adopt the INTERCEPT Blood System, its hospital customers may not accept or may not have the budget to purchase INTERCEPT-treated blood products. Since blood centers would likely not eliminate the practice of screening donors or testing blood for some pathogens prior to transfusion, even after implementing our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend in part on helping blood centers to identify enough cost offsets or hospital pricing increases to afford to purchase our products. Budgetary concerns may be further exacerbated by economic legislation in certain countries and by proposals by legislators at both the U.S. federal and state levels, regulators, healthcare facilities and third party payors to keep healthcare costs down, which may limit the adoption of new technologies, including our products. In the United States, the costs and expenses incurred by the blood center related to donor blood are typically included in the price that the blood center charges a hospital for a unit of blood. In October 2015, the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services published a separate reimbursement code and premium pricing for pathogen-reduced platelet and plasma components under the Healthcare Common Procure Coding System, or HCPCS. 

We maintain a wholly-owned subsidiary, Cerus Europe B.V., headquartered in the Netherlands, which focuses its efforts on marketing and selling the INTERCEPT Blood System in a number of countries in Europe, the CIS, the Middle East and selected countries in other regions around the world. We have a small scientific affairs group in the United States and the Netherlands that supports our commercialization efforts as well as medical science liaisons, or MSLs, to help educate hospitals and physicians on our products, clinical trial history and publications. 

We have entered into distribution agreements, generally on a geographically exclusive basis, with distributors in countries where we have limited abilities to commercialize our products directly. In certain of these jurisdictions, we rely on these distributors to obtain any necessary in-country regulatory approvals, in addition to marketing and selling the INTERCEPT Blood System, providing customer and technical product support, maintaining inventories, and adhering to our quality system in all material respects, among other activities. Selected areas where we have entered into geographically exclusive distribution agreements include but are not limited to certain countries in the CIS, Italy, the Middle East, Latin America, South Africa and Southeast Asia, as well as the People&#146;s Republic of China. Our success in these regions is dependent on our ability to support our distributors and our distributor&#146;s ability to market and sell our products and to maintain and service customer accounts, including technical service. Our distribution agreements account for a significant amount of our revenues. As such, declining performance or the outright termination or loss of certain distributor relationships could harm our existing business, may impact our growth potential, and could result in higher operating costs for us. As our distributors play a critical role in our commercialization efforts, we evaluate their performance on an ongoing basis. As we continue to evaluate our distributors, we may take further actions in the future which may have an impact on our operating results. For instance, over the course of 2013 and 2014, we implemented several changes designed to improve market penetration in our distributor territories, including by adding additional sales, technical and marketing support, as well as by providing supplementary training to improve the effectiveness of distributor field personnel. In 2014, we began transitioning certain territories to new distribution partners who we felt were capable of improved performance relative to their predecessors as well as transitioned some of these territories to a Cerus direct sales effort, which we believed would provide us with better visibility into and control of sales execution. As a result of these changes, we experienced a decrease in the volume of INTERCEPT disposable kit sales for the impacted territories as those distribution partners sold through their disposable kit inventory. In addition, the new distributors and our own direct sales force continue to require some time to develop the market with the same proficiency as previous distributors. We cannot provide assurance that they will be successful in achieving the same level of operations or proficiency as our previous distributors. We expect that it may take longer for us to be paid with some distributors or customers taking longer to pay invoices than the payment terms we have historically experienced. 

&#160; 

Competition 

Our products face a wide variety of competition from entities competing directly with alternative pathogen reducing technologies for platelets and/or plasma, as well as from entities developing and selling diagnostic screening products to detect and prevent contaminated products from being transfused, and from process and procedural decisions involving blood banking operations including but not limited to shortened shelf-life of blood components. Many of our competitors have mature, well-established products or have other products which are sold to blood centers and many have more commercial resources than we do. In addition, competitors may choose to seek a lower class of approval than our products, which may be easier and less costly for them to maintain and may be perceived as sufficient by the marketplace. We believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System has certain competitive advantages over competing blood-borne pathogen reduction methods that are either on the market or in development. The INTERCEPT Blood System is designed for use in blood centers, which allows for integration with current blood collection, processing and storage procedures. Certain competing products currently on the market, such as solvent detergent-treated plasma, use centralized processing that takes blood products away from the blood center in order to be treated at a central facility before being shipped back out to the blood centers or hospitals for ultimate transfusion, which may result in higher costs. 

In Europe, several companies, including Grifols S.A., Octapharma AG, MacoPharma International and Kedrion Biopharma, are developing or selling commercial pathogen reduction systems or services to treat fresh frozen plasma. Terumo BCT, a subsidiary of Terumo Corporation, has developed a pathogen reduction system for blood products and has been issued Class II CE marks for such system for both platelets and plasma. We understand that Terumo BCT also developed a pathogen reduction system for whole blood, receiving a class II CE mark. Terumo BCT&#146;s product candidates, if successful, may offer competitive advantages over our INTERCEPT Blood System. 

In the United States, INTERCEPT-treated plasma faces competition from Octapharma AG, which received approval from the FDA to begin selling treated fresh frozen plasma, as well as from diagnostic and testing companies currently approved for the detection of pathogens in donated blood products, including bacterial and viral pathogens. Our platelet product faces competition from a number of diagnostic and testing companies currently approved for the detection of pathogens including bacterial and viral pathogens in donated blood products and may face competition from other technologies if approved. 

In Japan, we understand that Terumo BCT&#146;s platelet and plasma pathogen reduction product is currently being evaluated by the Japanese Red Cross. Terumo Corporation is a large Japan-based, multinational corporation with more mature products and relationships than we have. Our ability to commercialize our products in certain markets, particularly in Japan, may be negatively affected by Terumo&#146;s resources and their pre-existing relationships with regulators and customers. Should Terumo BCT&#146;s product be approved for use and commercialized in Japan, we would likely directly compete with them and we believe we would likely need to either establish operations in Japan or partner with a local Japanese company. 

We believe that the primary competitive factors in the market for pathogen reduction of blood products include the breadth and effectiveness of pathogen reduction processes, the amount of demonstrated reduction in transfusion related adverse events subsequent to adopting pathogen reduction technology, robustness of treated blood components upon transfusion, the scope and enforceability of patent or other proprietary rights, perceived product value relative to perceived risk, product supply, perceived ease of use, perception of safety, efficacy and economics of pathogen reduction systems, and marketing and sales capability. In addition, we believe the length of time required for products to be developed and to receive regulatory and, in some cases, reimbursement approval are also important competitive factors. We believe that the INTERCEPT Blood System will compete favorably with respect to these factors, although there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so. Our success will depend in part on our ability to convince prospective customers of the benefits of and need to adopt pathogen reduction technology and specifically our system relative to other technologies, our ability to obtain and retain regulatory approvals for our products, and our ability to continue supplying quality and effective products to our customers and prospective customers. 

&#160; 

Further discussion of the major competitors to our blood product business can be found under &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the risk factor titled &#147;If our competitors develop products superior to ours, market their products more effectively than we market our products, or receive regulatory approval before our products, our commercial opportunities could be reduced or eliminated.&#148; 

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights 

Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents, to protect trade secrets, to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. As of December 31, 2015, we owned approximately 12 issued or allowed U.S. patents and approximately 87 issued or allowed foreign patents related to the INTERCEPT Blood System. Our patents expire at various dates between 2016 and 2031. Recent patent applications will, if granted, result in patents with later expiration dates. In addition, we have a license from Fresenius to U.S. and foreign patents relating to the INTERCEPT Blood System, which expire at various dates between 2018 and 2024. Due to the complexity of our products, we believe it is the protection afforded to our products by the portfolio of intellectual property rights that best protect our proprietary system rather than any one particular patent or trade secret. Proprietary rights relating to our planned and potential products will be protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. 

We are aware of a U.S. patent issued to a third-party that covers methods to remove psoralen compounds from blood products. We have reviewed the patent and believe there exist substantial questions concerning its validity. We cannot be certain, however, that a court would hold the patent to be invalid or not infringed by our platelet or plasma systems. In this regard, whether or not we infringe this patent will not be known with certainty unless and until a court interprets the patent in the context of litigation. In the event that we are found to infringe any valid claim of this patent, we may, among other things, be required to pay damages, cease the use and sale of our platelet and plasma systems and/or obtain a license from the owner of the patent, which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all. Further discussion of the factors impacting our intellectual property and the related impact on our ability to operate our business can be found under &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the risk factor titled &#147; We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or operate our business without infringing intellectual property rights of others. &#148; 

Seasonality 

Our business is dependent on the marketing and commercialization of the INTERCEPT Blood System to customers such as blood banks, hospitals, distributors and other health care providers that have a need for a pathogen reduction system to treat blood products for transfusion. Since we have not experienced purchasing patterns from our customers based on seasonal trends, we do not expect seasonality to have a material effect on our business, although purchasing patterns and inventory levels can fluctuate. 

Inventory Requirements and Product Return Rights 

Our platelet and plasma disposable kits have received regulatory approval for two-year shelf lives. Illuminators and replacement parts do not have regulated expiration dates. We own work-in-process inventory for certain components of INTERCEPT disposable kits, finished INTERCEPT disposable kits, illuminators, and certain replacement parts for our illuminators. Our supply chain for certain of these components, held as work-in-process on our consolidated balance sheet, may potentially take over one year to complete production before being utilized in finished disposable kits. In 2014, we began selling certain levels of work-in-process to Fresenius, somewhat mitigating the impact on our consolidated balance sheet. We maintain inventory based on our current 

&#160; 

sales projections, and at each reporting period, we evaluate whether our work-in-process inventory would be consumed for production of finished units in order to sell to existing and prospective customers within the next twelve-month period. It is not customary for our production cycle for inventory to exceed twelve months. Instead, we use our best judgment to factor in lead times for the production of our finished units to meet our current demands. If actual results differ from those estimates, work-in-process inventory could potentially accumulate for periods exceeding one year. Inventory is recorded at the lower of cost, determined on a first in, first out basis, or market value. We use significant judgment to analyze and determine if the composition of our inventory is obsolete, slow-moving, or unsalable and frequently review such determinations. We rely on our direct sales team and distributors to provide accurate forecasts of sales in their territory. If our forecasts or those of our distributors are inaccurate, we could face backlog situations or conversely, may produce and carry an abundance of inventory that would consume cash faster than we have currently planned. Generally, we write-down specifically identified unusable, obsolete, slow-moving, or known unsalable inventory that has no alternative use to net realizable value in the period that it is first recognized, by using a number of factors, including product expiration dates, open and unfulfilled orders, and sales forecasts. Any write-down of our inventory to net realizable value establishes a new cost basis and will be maintained even if certain circumstances suggest that the inventory is recoverable in subsequent periods. 

We sell the INTERCEPT Blood System directly to blood banks, hospitals, universities, and government agencies, as well as to distributors in certain regions. Generally, our contracts with our customers do not provide for open return rights, except within a reasonable time after receipt of goods in the case of defective or non-conforming product. 

Customers and Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Our customers are concentrated and consist of blood collection organizations, some of which are nationalized, public and private hospitals, and distributors. Distributors that purchase our products and sell to end-user customers comprise a significant amount of our existing sales. The loss of any one of our customers would have an adverse impact on our business. The following table illustrates concentration of sales over the past three years: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; &#160; 2013 &#160; Etablissement Francais du Sang 

&#160; &#160; 23 % &#160; &#160; 25 % &#160; &#160; 17 % Grifols 

&#160; &#160; * &#160; &#160; &#160; * &#160; &#160; &#160; 18 % &#160;

* Represents an amount less than 10% of product revenue. To date, we have not experienced collection difficulties from these customers. For additional details about these customers for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, as well as information regarding our net revenues by geographical location and location of our long-lived assets, see Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under &#147; Financial Statement Schedules&#151;Financial Statements &#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and Development Expenses 

A significant portion of our operating expenses is related to research and development and we intend to maintain a strong commitment to our research and development efforts. We have incurred total research and development expenses of $25.6 million, $21.8 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As we look ahead, we anticipate that the regulatory submission processes amendments to our PMA applications for the platelet system in the United States, will require continued investment in research and development activities, as will our ongoing clinical, development and CMC work for our red blood cell system. In addition, we plan to continue spending on new product development and enhancements to our illumination 

&#160; 

device which may increase research and development expenses. See Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under &#147; Financial Statement Schedules&#151;Financial Statements &#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for costs and expenses related to research and development, and other financial information for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 

Government Regulation 

We and our products are comprehensively regulated in the United States by the FDA and by comparable governmental authorities in other jurisdictions. 

Our European investigational plan has been based on the INTERCEPT Blood System being categorized as Class III drug/device combination under the Medical Device Directives, or the MDD, of the European Union. 

The European Union requires that medical devices affix the CE mark, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with the MDD. We initially received the CE mark for our platelet system and separately for our plasma system in 2002 and 2006, respectively. We will need to obtain a CE mark extension in our name from European Union regulators for both our platelet and plasma systems every five years. The CE mark for the platelet system is effective through May 2017 while the CE mark for the plasma system is effective through September 2016. A separate CE mark certification must be received for the red blood cell system to be sold in the European Union and in other countries recognizing the CE mark. In addition, France, Switzerland, Germany, and Austria require separate approvals for INTERCEPT-treated blood products. 

The FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. These laws and implementing regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, record keeping, storage, labeling, advertising, promotion and pre-market clearance or approval of products subject to regulation. The steps required before a medical device may be approved for marketing in the United States pursuant to a PMA include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preclinical laboratory and animal tests; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an investigational device exemption for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; appropriate tests to show the product&#146;s safety; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the product&#146;s safety and efficacy for its intended indications; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a PMA; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review of the PMA in order to determine, among other things, whether the product is safe and effective for its intended uses. 

In December 2014, the FDA approved the platelet system for ex vivo preparation of pathogen-reduced apheresis platelet components in order to reduce the risk of TTI, including sepsis, and to potentially reduce the risk of transfusion-associated graft versus host disease, or TA-GVHD. Also in December 2014, the FDA approved the plasma system for ex vivo preparation of plasma in order to reduce the risk of TTI when treating patients requiring therapeutic plasma transfusion. We are conducting in vitro studies for our platelet system to expand our label claims to include, among others, platelets suspended in 100% plasma in addition to platelets stored in storage solution, storage of INTERCEPT-treated platelets for up to seven days rather than five days, and a new processing set for triple dose collections. 

As a condition to the FDA approval of the platelet systems, we are required to conduct a post-approval clinical study of the platelet system. If we are unable to complete this study or the results of this study reveal 

&#160; 

unacceptable safety risks, we could be required to perform additional studies, which may be costly, and even lose U.S. marketing approval of the platelet and/or plasma systems. In addition to these studies, the FDA may also require us to commit to perform other lengthy post-marketing studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources. In addition, there is a risk that these studies will show results inconsistent with our previous studies. 

Any modifications to the platelet and plasma systems that could significantly affect their safety or effectiveness, including significant design and manufacturing changes, or that would constitute a major change in their intended use, manufacture, design, components, or technology requires FDA approval of a new PMA or PMA supplement. However, certain changes to a PMA-approved device do not require submission and approval of a new PMA or PMA supplement and may only require notice to FDA in a PMA Annual Report. The FDA requires every supplier to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any supplier&#146;s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. Our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective or that appropriate regulatory submissions were not made. If new regulatory approvals are required, this could delay or preclude our ability to market the modified system. For example, due to the obsolescence of certain parts, we redesigned the illuminator used in the platelet and plasma systems. We also understand that we will have to qualify and validate certain new plastics in the platelet and plasma systems. We will need to seek regulatory approval of the redesigned illuminator and plastics. Should we be unable to obtain approval, our operations and financial results will be adversely affected. In addition, in order to address the entire market in the United States, we will need to develop and test additional configurations of the platelet system, including to make the platelet system compatible with platelets suspended in 100% plasma, triple dose collections and random donor platelets. Our failure to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approvals of new platelet and plasma product configurations could significantly limit revenues from sales of the platelet and plasma systems. 

With FDA approval of our platelet and plasma systems, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements related to, among other things, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other information. In addition, our manufacturers and their facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA and foreign regulatory agency requirements, including, in the United States, ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to FDA-mandated current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements. As such, we and our contract manufacturers are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control. 

We are also required to report certain adverse events and production problems, if any, to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, when applicable, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. For example, our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, uses. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitute promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products could be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. 

CBER is the center within the FDA principally responsible for regulating the INTERCEPT Blood System. In addition to regulating our blood safety products, CBER also regulates the blood collection centers and would 

&#160; 

regulate any blood products that they prepare using the INTERCEPT Blood System. Prior to broader customer adoption in the United States, U.S.-based blood centers will need to complete their process validations and obtain site-specific licenses from CBER before making INTERCEPT-treated blood products available to their interstate hospital customers. Additionally, the hospital customers of any of our new blood center customers will need to go through the administrative process of generating internal tracking codes to integrate INTERCEPT-treated products into their inventories, which may result in further delay of customer adoption in the United States. We plan to work with U.S.-based blood centers to support these activities as any delay in obtaining these licenses would adversely impact our ability to sell products in the United States. 

We believe that in deciding whether the INTERCEPT Blood System is safe and effective regulatory authorities have taken, and are expected to take, into account whether it adversely affects the therapeutic efficacy of blood components as compared to the therapeutic efficacy of blood components not treated with INTERCEPT. Data from human clinical studies must demonstrate the safety of treated blood components and their therapeutic comparability to untreated blood components. In addition, regulatory authorities will weigh INTERCEPT&#146;s safety, including potential toxicities of the inactivation compounds, and other risks against the benefits of using the system in a blood supply that has become safer. We have conducted many toxicology studies designed to demonstrate the INTERCEPT Blood System&#146;s safety. There can be no assurance that regulatory authorities will not require further toxicology or other studies of our products. Based on discussions with the FDA and European regulatory authorities, we believe that data only from laboratory and animal studies, not data from human clinical studies, will be required to demonstrate the system&#146;s efficacy in reducing pathogens. In light of these criteria, our clinical trial programs for the INTERCEPT Blood System consist of studies that differ from typical Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical studies. 

The preclinical and clinical studies of the INTERCEPT Blood System for red blood cells have been conducted using prototype system disposables and devices. In addition to the clinical trials, a number of manufacturing and validation activities must be completed before we could sell the red blood cell product. 

Further discussion of our regulatory and clinical trial status can be found in &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the risk factor titled: &#147;Our products, blood products treated with the INTERCEPT Blood System and we are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign authorities. If our preclinical and clinical data are not considered sufficient by a country&#146;s regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval, we will be unable to commercialize our products and generate revenue in that country. Our investigational red blood cell system requires extensive additional testing and development.&#148; 

Health Care Reimbursement and Reform 

Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of the products and related treatment are obtained. The United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and ongoing cost saving efforts in the United States and in other regions of the world may have an impact on our ability to profitably commercialize the INTERCEPT Blood System in the United States and elsewhere. For instance, the health care reform in the United States has placed downward pressure on the pricing of medical products and has introduced new taxation on medical devices, which could further impact our profit margins. 

Further discussion of the impact of health care reform and laws governing our business practices on our business can be found in &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the risk factors titled &#147; Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our products and to produce, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained &#148; and &#147; We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties and harm our reputation and business. &#148; 

&#160; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 176 employees, 48 of whom were engaged in research and development and 128 in selling, general and administrative activities. Of the 128 employees engaged in selling, general, and administrative activities, 43 were employed by our European subsidiary, Cerus Europe B.V. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.cerus.com ; however, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities Exchange Commission. 

Financial Information 

Our financial information including our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of comprehensive loss, consolidated statements of stockholders&#146; equity, consolidated statements of cash flows, and the related footnotes thereto, can be found under &#147; Financial Statement Schedules &#148; in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

