 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

A. Introduction 

Churchill Downs Incorporated (the "Company", "we", "us", "our") is an industry-leading racing, gaming, and online entertainment company anchored by our iconic flagship event - The Kentucky Derby . We are a leader in brick-and-mortar casino gaming with approximately 8,500 &#32;gaming positions in six states, and we are the largest, legal online account wagering platform for horseracing in the U.S. We are also one of the world's largest producers and distributors of mobile games. We were organized as a Kentucky corporation in 1928, and our principal executive offices are located in Louisville, Kentucky. 

B. Business Segments 

We manage our operations through six operating segments: Racing, Casinos, TwinSpires, Big Fish Games, Other Investments and Corporate. Financial information about these segments is set forth in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 19&#8212;Segment Information, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained within this report. Further discussion of financial results by operating segment is provided in Item 7. "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained within this report. 

Racing Segment 

Our Racing segment includes our four racetracks: Churchill Downs Racetrack ("Churchill Downs"), Arlington International Race Course ("Arlington"), Fair Grounds Race Course ("Fair Grounds") and Calder Race Course ("Calder"). We conduct live horseracing at Churchill Downs, Arlington and Fair Grounds. On July 1, 2014, we entered into a racing services agreement with The Stronach Group ("TSG") to allow Gulfstream Park to manage and operate Calder through December 31, 2020. 

Our racing revenue includes commissions on pari-mutuel wagering at our racetracks and OTBs plus simulcast host fees earned from other wagering sites. In addition, ancillary revenue generated by the pari-mutuel facilities includes admissions, sponsorships and licensing rights, and food and beverage sales. Racing revenue and income are influenced by our racing calendar. Racing dates are generally approved annually by the respective state racing authorities. Therefore, racing revenue and operating results for any interim quarter are not generally indicative of the revenue and operating results for the year. The majority of our live racing revenue occurs during the second quarter with the running of the Kentucky Oaks and Kentucky Derby. 

Churchill Downs, Arlington, Fair Grounds, our ten OTBs in Illinois and twelve OTBs in Louisiana offer year-round simulcast wagering. Gulfstream Park took over operations of Calder&#8217;s simulcast wagering beginning July 1, 2014. The OTBs accept wagers on races at the respective racetrack or on races simulcast from other locations. 

We generate a significant portion of our pari-mutuel wagering revenue by sending signals of races from our racetracks to other facilities and businesses ("export") and receiving signals from other racetracks ("import"). Revenue is earned through pari-mutuel wagering on signals that we both import and export. 

Churchill Downs 

Churchill Downs is located in Louisville, Kentucky and is an internationally known thoroughbred racing operation best known as the home of the iconic Kentucky Derby. We have conducted thoroughbred racing continuously at Churchill Downs since 1875. The Kentucky Derby is the longest continuously held annual sporting event in the United States and is the first race of the annual series of races for 3-year old thoroughbreds known as the Triple Crown. Our history of record attendance, strong wagering and television viewership is attractive to presenting sponsors and contributed to the sixth consecutive year of Adjusted EBITDA growth in 2015. We had 75 &#32;race days in 2013, 74 &#32;in 2014 and 70 &#32;in 2015. We anticipate having 70 &#32;race days in 2016. 

In 2002, as part of the financing of improvements to the Churchill Downs facility, we transferred title of the Churchill Downs facility to the City of Louisville, Kentucky and leased back the facility. Subject to the terms of the lease, we can re-acquire the facility at any time for $1.00. 

The facility consists of approximately 147 acres of land with a one-mile dirt track, a seven-eighths (7/8) mile turf track, a grandstand, luxury suites and a stabling area. The facility accommodates approximately 56,400 patrons in our clubhouse, grandstand, Jockey Club Suites, Finish Line Suites, Turf Club, Grandstand Terrace, Rooftop Garden and Mansion. We have a saddling paddock, accommodations for groups and special events and parking areas for the public. Our racetrack also has permanent lighting in order to accommodate night races. The stable area has barns sufficient to accommodate approximately 1,400 horses and a 114-room dormitory for backstretch personnel. The Churchill Downs facility also has a simulcast wagering facility. 

We have continued to invest in the facility to enhance the experience of our customers. During 2014, we completed the installation of a 15,224 square-foot, state of the art, high-definition video board that provides an enhanced viewing experience for patrons. We also created The Mansion, which provides premium accommodations for 298 guests. We also opened the Grandstand Terrace and Rooftop Garden, which together offers 2,400 new seats, wagering windows, and food and beverage offerings. 

During the second quarter of 2015, we opened our new winner&#8217;s circle suites and a courtyard. The winner&#8217;s circle suites include 20 private, open-air suites reserved specifically for Kentucky Oaks and Kentucky Derby horsemen. The courtyard is a spacious lawn area in front of the winner&#8217;s circle suites. 

In September 2015, we announced an $18 million capital expenditure project to modernize the Turf Club and other premium areas to be completed prior to the 2016 Kentucky Oaks and Kentucky Derby, further evidencing our dedication to enhancing the experience at Churchill Downs. 

We also provide additional stabling and training facilities sufficient to accommodate 500 horses and a three-quarter (3/4) mile dirt track at a facility known as Trackside Louisville. Trackside Louisville operated as a simulcast wagering facility until it ceased operations in 2013. The simulcast wagering portion of the facility was razed during January 2015. 

Arlington 

The Arlington racetrack is located in Arlington Heights, Illinois and is a thoroughbred racing operation with ten &#32;OTBs. The Arlington racetrack hosts a significant stakes race, the Arlington Million. We had 89 &#32;race days in 2013, 89 &#32;in 2014 and 77 &#32;in 2015. We anticipate having 74 &#32;race days in 2016. 

The racetrack sits on 336 acres, has a one and one-eighth (1 1/8) mile synthetic track, a one-mile turf track and a five-eighths (5/8) mile training track. The facility includes a clubhouse, grandstand and suite seating for approximately 7,500 persons, and food and beverage facilities. The stable area can accommodate 2,200 horses and has a 546-room temporary housing facility. 

Fair Grounds 

The Fair Grounds racetrack is located in New Orleans, Louisiana and is a racing operation with twelve &#32;OTBs in Louisiana. The Fair Grounds racetrack hosts a significant stakes race, the Louisiana Derby. We had 81 &#32;thoroughbred race days in 2013, 82 &#32;in 2014 and 83 &#32;in 2015. We anticipate having 80 &#32;thoroughbred race days in 2016. We had 14 quarter horse race days in 2013, 12 in 2014 and 10 in 2015. We anticipate having 10 quarter horse race days in 2016. 

The Fair Grounds facility consists of approximately 145 acres of land, a one-mile dirt track, a seven-eighths (7/8) mile turf track, a grandstand and a stabling area. The facility includes clubhouse and grandstand seating for approximately 5,000 persons, a general admissions area and food and beverage facilities. The stable area consists of barns that can accommodate 1,897 horses and living quarters for 132 persons. 

Calder 

Calder is located in Miami Gardens, Florida and is adjacent to Sun Life Stadium, home of the Miami Dolphins. Calder is a thoroughbred racing facility that consists of approximately 231 acres of land with a one-mile dirt track, 7/8-mile turf track, barns and stabling facilities. 

On July 1, 2014, we finalized an agreement with TSG that expires on December 31, 2020 under which we permit TSG to operate and manage Calder&#8217;s racetrack and certain other racing and training facilities and to provide live horseracing under Calder&#8217;s racing permits. During the term of the agreement, TSG pays Calder a racing services fee and is responsible for the direct and indirect costs of maintaining the racing premises, including the training facilities and applicable barns, and TSG receives the associated revenue from the operation. 

In 2015, we continued our assessment of potential alternative uses of the Calder property that is not associated with the TSG lease agreement. Based on our analysis, we razed the barns that were not associated with the TSG agreement and commenced the demolition of the grandstand and certain ancillary facilities. In 2015, we recognized Calder exit costs of $13.9 million consisting of a non-cash impairment charge of $12.7 million to reduce the net book value of the grandstand assets to zero and $1.2 million for demolition costs related to the removal of the grandstand and the barns and to prepare the stable area for alternate future uses. We expect to obtain operational efficiencies as a result of the demolition including savings in property taxes, repair and maintenance, utilities, permitting and environmental maintenance expenditures. We expect to incur additional demolition costs of approximately $3.2 million, which will continue to be expensed as incurred during 2016. We reclassified $2.3 million of severance and other benefit costs that were previously reported in selling, general and administrative expense in 2014 into Calder exit costs. 

Casinos Segment 

We are also a diversified provider of brick-and-mortar real-money casino gaming with approximately 8,500 &#32;gaming positions located in six states. We own five casinos (Oxford Casino, Riverwalk Casino, Harlow&#8217;s Casino, Calder Casino and Fair Grounds Slots and Video Services, LLC) and two hotels (Riverwalk and Harlow&#8217;s). In addition, we have a 50% equity investment in Miami Valley Gaming, LLC ("MVG") and a 25% equity investment in Saratoga Casino Holdings LLC ("SCH"). Our casino revenue is primarily generated from slot machines, video poker and table games while ancillary revenue includes hotel and food and beverage sales. 

Oxford Casino 

Our Oxford Casino ("Oxford") is located in Oxford, Maine. Oxford is a 27,000 square-foot casino with approximately 850 &#32;slot machines, 26 &#32;table games and two dining facilities on approximately 97 acres of land. 

Riverwalk Casino 

Our Riverwalk Casino ("Riverwalk") is located in Vicksburg, Mississippi. Riverwalk is a 25,000 square-foot casino with approximately 660 &#32;slot machines, 14 &#32;table games, a five-story 80-room attached hotel and two dining facilities on approximately 22 acres of land. 

Harlow&#8217;s Casino 

Our Harlow&#8217;s Casino ("Harlow&#8217;s") is located in Greenville, Mississippi. Harlow&#8217;s is a 33,000 square-foot casino with approximately 740 &#32;slot machines, 15 &#32;table games, a 105-room attached hotel, a 5,600 square-foot multi-functional event center and four dining facilities. Harlow&#8217;s is located on approximately 84 acres of leased land adjacent to U.S. Highway 82 in Greenville, Mississippi. 

Calder Casino 

Our Calder Casino ("Calder Casino") is located in Miami Gardens, Florida near Sun Life Stadium and is adjacent to Calder Race Course. Calder Casino is a 106,000 square-foot facility with approximately 1,090 &#32;slot machines and two dining facilities on a single-level. We ceased operating a poker room at Calder Casino on June 30, 2014. 

Fair Grounds Slots and Video Services, LLC 

Fair Grounds Slots is located in New Orleans, Louisiana adjacent to Fair Grounds Race Course. Fair Grounds Slots is a 33,000 square-foot slot facility that operates approximately 620 &#32;slot machines with two concession areas, a bar, a simulcast facility and other amenities for casino and pari-mutuel wagering patrons. Video Services, LLC ("VSI") is the owner and operator of approximately 790 &#32;video poker machines in ten &#32;off-track betting locations ("OTBs") in Louisiana. 

Miami Valley Gaming Joint Venture and Equity Investment 

We have a 50% equity investment in MVG that owns a video lottery terminal ("VLT") facility and harness racetrack on 120 acres in Lebanon, Ohio, which opened on December 12, 2013. MVG is an 186,000 square-foot facility with approximately 1,590 &#32;video lottery terminals, a racing simulcast center, a 5/8- mile harness racetrack and four dining facilities. MVG expects to conduct 86 &#32;days of live harness racing in 2016. MVG conducted 52 &#32;days of live harness racing in 2013, 64 &#32;days in 2014, and 89 &#32;days in 2015. 

MVG, our 50% joint venture with Delaware North Companies Gaming &#38; Entertainment Inc. ("DNC") was established during 2012 to develop a new harness racetrack and VLT casino facility in Lebanon, Ohio. Through the joint venture agreement with DNC, we formed a new company, MVG, to manage our collective interest in the development and operation of the racetrack and the VLT. On December 21, 2012, MVG completed the purchase of the harness racing licenses and certain assets held by Lebanon Trotting Club, Inc. and Miami Valley Trotting, Inc. for total consideration of $60.0 million, of which $10.0 million was funded at closing with the remainder funded through a $50.0 million note payable with a six-year term effective upon the commencement of casino operations on December 12, 2013. There is also a potential contingent consideration payment of $10.0 million based on the financial performance of the facility during the seven-year period after casino operations commence. 

Saratoga Casino Holdings LLC Equity Investment 

On October 2, 2015, we completed the acquisition of a 25% equity investment in SCH which owns Saratoga Casino and Raceway ("Saratoga") in Saratoga Springs, New York, for $24.5 million from Saratoga Harness Racing, Inc. ("SHRI"). Saratoga has a casino facility with approximately 1,700 VLT machines, a 1/2-mile harness racetrack with a racing simulcast center and three dining facilities. Saratoga has a 50% interest in a joint venture with DNC to manage the Gideon Putnam Hotel and Resort. We also signed a five-year management agreement with SCH to manage Saratoga for which we receive management fee revenue. Saratoga expects to complete a $40.0 million expansion including a 117-room hotel, expanding dining facilities and a 3,000 square-foot multi-functional event space in 2016. SCH expects to conduct 170 days of live harness racing in 2016. SCH conducted 170 days of live harness racing in 2013, 160 days in 2014 and 170 days in 2015. 

SHRI has also agreed to transfer its controlling interest in Saratoga Casino Black Hawk in Black Hawk, Colorado to SCH upon approval from the Colorado Division of Gaming. When the approval is received and the transfer is completed, we will pay the remainder of the purchase price of approximately $6.4 million to SHRI for our pro-rata ownership of the Colorado operations and we will sign a five-year management agreement with SCH to manage Saratoga Casino Black Hawk for which we will receive management fee revenue. 

TwinSpires Segment 

Our TwinSpires segment includes TwinSpires.com, Fair Grounds Account Wagering ("FAW"), Velocity, Bloodstock Research Information Services ("BRIS") and HRTV, LLC. 

TwinSpires.com is headquartered in Mountain View, California and operates our Advance Deposit Wagering ("ADW") business. We are the country&#8217;s premier source of online account wagering for horseracing events and are the largest legal online gaming platform in the U.S. TwinSpires accepts online and mobile pari-mutuel wagers from customers residing in certain states who establish and fund an account from which they may place wagers via telephone, mobile device (through a browser or the TwinSpires mobile app) or through the Internet at www.twinspires.com . Our business is licensed as a multi-jurisdictional simulcasting and interactive wagering hub in the state of Oregon. We offer our customers streaming video of live horse races along with race replays and an assortment of racing and handicapping information, and all of our customers have the ability to automatically enroll in its rewards program, TSC Elite. In addition, we provide technology services to other third parties and we earn commissions from white label ADW products and services. Under these arrangements, we typically provide an advance deposit wagering platform and related operational services while the third party typically provides a brand name, marketing and limited customer functions. We believe that TwinSpires.com is a key component to our growth, and our gaming platform positions us to be a continued market leader in online gaming. 

Our FAW business is an ADW business licensed in the state of Louisiana that is operated by Fair Grounds Race Course for Louisiana residents through a contractual agreement with TwinSpires.com. 

Velocity is licensed in the British Dependency Isle of Man where we operate an ADW business focused on high dollar wagering international customers. 

BRIS is a data service provider for the equine industry. We maintain one of the world&#8217;s largest computerized databases of pedigree and racing information for the thoroughbred horse industry. We provide special reports, statistical information, handicapping information, pedigrees, and other data to organizations, publications and individuals within the thoroughbred industry. 

HRTV, LLC ("HRTV") was an equity investment in a horseracing television channel. We divested HRTV on January 2, 2015. 

Big Fish Games Segment 

On December 16, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Big Fish Games, Inc. ("Big Fish Games"), a global producer and distributor of social casino, casual and mid-core free-to-play, and premium paid games for PC, Mac and mobile devices. Big Fish Games is headquartered in Seattle, Washington and has locations in Oakland, California and Luxembourg, with approximately 604 employees. 

We utilize a portfolio approach to game development and have five internal studios with distinct production strategies as well as a large network of third-party developers to supplement our internal game production capabilities. We are a major producer of content and a direct-to-consumer, analytics-focused marketer and distributor of content across multiple platforms, including PC, Mac and mobile (including iOS and Android devices). We focus on delivering high quality game play and scaling these games to large audiences. When we release new games, we have an advanced marketing and analytic platform that allows us to quickly reach a broad game audience while leveraging a positive spread between the cost to acquire users and the expected net revenue from those users. 

We have distributed more than 2.6 billion games to customers in 150 countries and are currently ranked as the fifth largest mobile publisher by combined iOS and Android sales in the U.S. based on gross revenue. The business operates in three business lines: 1) social casino, 2) casual and mid-core free-to-play and 3) premium paid games. 

Social Casino Games 

Social casino games are free to download through PC, Mac and mobile devices with a free-to-play business model. Monetization occurs through the consumer purchase of in-app virtual currency to enhance the game-playing experience. We view Big Fish Casino &#32;as a social game platform within a single app that includes multiple casino-style games such as blackjack, poker, slots, craps and roulette. Big Fish Casino &#32;is consistently a top-five social casino title on iOS and Google Play app stores based on gross revenue. 

Casual and Mid-core Free-to-play Games 

Casual and mid-core free-to-play games are also free to download through PC, Mac and mobile devices. Casual games consist of non-casino game genres such as match three, puzzle, hidden object and solitaire. Mid-core free-to-play games include non-casino game genres such as simulation, role-playing, adventure, collectible card and strategy. These games are monetized through the consumer purchase of in-app virtual currency which players can use to buy virtual items to enhance the game-playing experience. Over time, we have experienced a significant increase in our monthly average users largely due to the continued growth of our mobile free-to-play offerings. Gummy Drop! &#32;and Fairway Solitaire Blast &#32;are examples of our casual free-to-play games and Dungeon Boss &#32;is an example of our mid-core free-to-play games. 

Premium Paid Games 

Premium paid games are those where customers pay a single price upfront to download a game on their PC, Mac and mobile devices. There is no further monetization through in-game purchases. The games tend to be linear in nature and have a distinct 

beginning, middle and end. The premium paid customer base provides a significant source of free installs to support new premium paid mobile games as well as free-to-play product launches. 

Other Investments Segment 

Our Other Investments Segment includes United Tote, Churchill Downs Interactive Gaming ("I-Gaming"), Capital View Casino &#38; Resort Joint Venture ("Capital View") and Bluff. 

United Tote 

Our subsidiaries, United Tote Company and United Tote Canada (collectively "United Tote"), manufacture and operate pari-mutuel wagering systems for racetracks, OTBs and other pari-mutuel wagering businesses. United Tote provides totalisator services which accumulate wagers, record sales, calculate payoffs and display wagering data to patrons who wager on horseraces. United Tote has contracts to provide totalisator services to a significant number of third-party racetracks, OTBs and other pari-mutuel wagering businesses and also provides these services at many of our facilities. 

I-Gaming 

I-Gaming is our Internet real-money gaming operation. During May 2015, I-Gaming entered into an agreement with a licensed card room operator to provide Internet-based interactive gaming services within California, should enabling legislation be enacted that would permit such activities. The term of the agreement commences after enabling legislation and upon the acceptance of the first customer wager and will then continue for a ten-year period. Under the agreement, I-Gaming and the licensed operator will jointly provide a platform for operations, obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals, and operate Internet-based interactive gaming services that will be marketed to California residents. These Internet-based interactive gaming services may include poker and other real-money gaming activities. At this time, it is difficult to assess whether this legislation will be enacted into law and the effect it would have on our business. 

Capital View Casino &#38; Resort Joint Venture 

Capital View is a 50% joint venture with SHRI that unsuccessfully bid on the development of a destination casino and resort in the Capital Region of New York. Our remaining investment of $0.8 million reflects our share of land owned by the venture. 

Bluff 

Bluff Media ("Bluff"), which we acquired in February 2012, operated a multimedia poker periodical ( BLUFF Magazine and BluffMagazine.com), maintained a comprehensive online database (ThePokerDB) that tracked and ranked the performance of poker players and tournaments, and provided various other news and content forums. We ceased operations of BLUFF &#32;in July 2015. 

Corporate Segment 

Our Corporate segment includes miscellaneous and other revenue, compensation expense, professional fees and other general and administrative expense not allocated to our other operating segments. 

C. Competition 

Overview 

We operate in a highly competitive industry with a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than ours. The industry faces competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending, including spectator sports, fantasy sports and other entertainment and gaming options. Internet-based interactive gaming and wagering, both legal and illegal, is growing rapidly and we anticipate competition in this area will become more intense as new Internet-based ventures enter the industry and as state and federal regulations on Internet-based activities are clarified. Additionally, our brick-and-mortar casinos compete with traditional and Native American casinos, video lottery terminals, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. 

Legalized gambling is currently permitted in various forms in many states and Canada. Other jurisdictions could legalize gambling in the future, and established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing or gaming operations, such gaming operations could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Racing 

In 2015, approximately 39,840 &#32;thoroughbred horse races were conducted in the U.S. Of these races, we hosted 2,120 &#32;races, or about 5.3% &#32;of the total. As a content provider, we compete for wagering dollars in the simulcast market with other racetracks conducting races at or near the same times as our races. As a racetrack operator, we also compete for horses with other racetracks running live racing meets at or near the same time as our races. Our ability to compete is substantially dependent on the racing calendar, number of horses racing and purse sizes. In recent years, competition has increased as more states legalize gaming and 

allow slot machines at racetracks with mandatory purse contributions. Over 89 percent of pari-mutuel handle is bet at off-track locations, either at other racetracks, OTBs, casinos, or through ADW channels. As a content distributor, we compete for these dollars to be wagered at our racetracks, OTBs, casinos and via our ADW business. 

Churchill Downs 

Churchill Downs faces competition from freestanding casinos and racetracks that are combined with casinos ("racinos") in Indiana and Ohio. In Indiana, these casinos include Horseshoe Indiana, in Elizabeth, Indiana; Belterra Casino in Florence, Indiana and French Lick Resort in French Lick, Indiana. In Indiana, there are two racinos: Hoosier Park which operates 2,000 slot machines, and Indiana Grand Racing &#38; Casino which operates 2,200 slot machines. In Ohio, seven racetracks offer VLT facilities. 

In New York, Aqueduct Racetrack has a gaming facility with more than 4,900 video lottery terminals and electronic table games. As a result of the addition of gaming activities, New York purse payments at each of the three New York racetracks were greatly enhanced compared to historical levels. 

These developments may result in Indiana, Ohio and New York racetracks attracting horses that would otherwise race at Kentucky racetracks, including Churchill Downs, thus negatively affecting the number of starters and purse sizes that, in turn, may have a negative effect on handle. 

Arlington 

Arlington competes in the Chicago market against a variety of entertainment options. In addition to other racetracks in the area such as Hawthorne Race Course, there are ten riverboat casino operations that draw from the Chicago market including Rivers Casino, in Des Plaines, Illinois. Additionally, Native American gaming operations in Wisconsin may also adversely affect Arlington. 

The Video Gaming Act was enacted in July 2009, authorizing the placement of up to five Video Gaming Terminals ("VGTs") in licensed retail establishments, truck stops, and veteran and fraternal establishments. There are currently over 22,000 VGTs distributed among more than 5,000 establishments throughout Illinois. 

Fair Grounds 

Fair Grounds competes in Louisiana in both thoroughbred and quarter horse racing with Louisiana Downs, Evangeline Downs, Harrah's Louisiana Downs and Delta Downs as well as with other southern state racetracks including Gulfstream Park in Florida and Oaklawn Park in Arkansas. 

Casinos 

Oxford 

Oxford competes with Hollywood Casino in Bangor, Maine. Oxford also competes with Plainridge Park Casino in Plainville, Massachusetts which opened in June 2015. Two other casinos are expected to open in Massachusetts in the future. 

Riverwalk 

Riverwalk competes in the Vicksburg, Mississippi area and is one of four casinos in the local market. Our principal local competitors are Ameristar Casino, Lady Luck Casino and DiamondJacks Casino &#38; Hotel. In addition, Riverwalk faces regional competition from Magnolia Bluff Casino and the Pearl River Resort in Mississippi. 

Harlow&#8217;s 

Harlow&#8217;s competes in Greenville, Mississippi with a variety of regional riverboat and land-based casinos. Our primary local competitor is Trop Casino that reopened its renovated property during October 2014. Harlow&#8217;s also faces regional competition from a casino in Lula, Mississippi, eight casinos in Tunica, Mississippi and two casinos in Arkansas. 

The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted. 

Calder Casino 

Calder Casino competes with seven pari-mutuel casinos as well as three Indian-owned casinos, all of which are located in Miami-Dade or Broward County, Florida. We also face competition from a large number of cruise ship operators in Miami and Ft. Lauderdale. Native American casinos are taxed at lower rates and therefore, are generally able to spend more money marketing their facilities to consumers. 

Florida legislators continue to debate the expansion of Florida gaming to include Las Vegas-style destination resort casinos which may be subject to lower taxation rates. 

Fair Grounds Slots and Video Services, LLC 

Fair Grounds Slots competes in the New Orleans, Louisiana area with two riverboat casinos and Harrah&#8217;s which is the largest, closest and only land-based casino competitor to Fair Grounds. Fair Grounds Slots faces significant gambling competition along 

the Mississippi Gulf Coast. Fair Grounds Slots and VSI also compete with video poker operations located at various OTBs, truck stops and restaurants in the area. In 2015, Fair Grounds Slots was adversely impacted by a smoking ban in Orleans Parish which enhanced competition with properties outside of Orleans Parish. 

MVG 

MVG competes with Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway, a VLT facility in Dayton, Ohio and Horseshoe Cincinnati, a slot machine and table games casino in Cincinnati, Ohio. MVG also faces regional competition from three casinos in Indiana and two other gaming properties in Columbus, Ohio. 

Saratoga 

Saratoga will compete with Rivers Casino, a new casino in Schenectady, New York, that is expected to open during the first half of 2017. 

TwinSpires 

TwinSpires.com competes with other ADW businesses for both customers and racing content, and it also competes with online gaming sites. Our competitors include Betfair Limited (d/b/a TVG), The Stronach Group (d/b/a XpressBet), Premier Turf Club, Lien Games (d/b/a BetAmerica), AmWest Entertainment, The New York Racing Association (d/b/a NYRA Rewards), Connecticut OTB, Penn National Gaming Inc. and Racing2Day LLC. 

Our BRIS business competes with companies such as Equibase and the Daily Racing Form. The handicapping and pedigree information that we sell to wagering customers and horsemen in the industry may give us a competitive advantage as we are able to provide promotional products to our ADW customers that other ADW businesses cannot provide. 

Big Fish Games 

We face significant competition in all aspects of our business. Specifically, we compete for the leisure time, attention and discretionary spending of our players with other game developers on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of player experience, brand awareness and access to distribution channels. 

&#160; We believe we compete favorably on these factors. However, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Other developers and distributors of social casino, casual and mid-core free-to-play and premium paid games could develop more compelling content that competes with our games and adversely affects our ability to attract and retain players and their entertainment time. These competitors, including companies of which we may not be currently aware, may take advantage of social networks or access to a larger user base to grow their networks rapidly and virally. 

Our social casino games compete in a rapidly evolving market against an increasing number of competitors, including Caesars Interactive, Zynga and IGT. Our casual and mid-core free-to-play game customers may also play other games on PCs, Macs, mobile devices and console devices, and some of these games may include unique features that our games do not have. Given the open nature of the development and distribution of games for mobile devices, we compete with a vast number of developers and distributors who are able to create and launch games and other content for these devices using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. It has been estimated that more than 2.1 million applications, including more than 473,000 active games, were available on Apple&#8217;s U.S. App Store as of December 31, 2015. The proliferation of titles potentially makes it difficult for us to differentiate ourselves from other developers and to compete for customers who download and purchase content for their devices without substantially increasing our marketing and other development and distribution costs. 

Other Investments 

In North America, United Tote competes primarily with Sportech and AmTote International, Inc. Our competition outside of North America is very fragmented. 

D. Governmental Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations that affect our businesses. The ownership, operation and management of our racing operations, our casino operations, TwinSpires and Big Fish Games are subject to regulation under the laws and regulations of each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. The ownership, operation and management of our segments are also subject to legislative actions at both the federal and state level. 

Racing Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

Horseracing is a highly regulated industry. In the U.S., individual states control the operations of racetracks located within their respective jurisdictions with the intent of, among other things, protecting the public from unfair and illegal gambling practices, generating tax revenue, licensing racetracks and operators and preventing organized crime from being involved in the industry. Although the specific form may vary, states that regulate horseracing generally do so through a horseracing commission or other gambling regulatory authority. In general, regulatory authorities perform background checks on all racetrack owners prior to 

granting them the necessary operating licenses. Horse owners, trainers, jockeys, drivers, stewards, judges and backstretch personnel are also subject to licensing by governmental authorities. State regulation of horse races extends to virtually every aspect of racing and usually extends to details such as the presence and placement of specific race officials, including timers, placing judges, starters and patrol judges. We currently satisfy the applicable licensing requirements of the racing and gambling regulatory authorities in each state where we maintain racetracks or pari-mutuel operations and/or business 

The total number of days on which each racetrack conducts live thoroughbred racing fluctuates annually according to each calendar year and the determination of applicable regulatory authorities. 

Specific Federal Racing Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

In the United States, interstate pari-mutuel wagering on horseracing is subject to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 ("IHA"), as amended in 2000. Through the IHA, racetracks can commingle wagers from different racetracks and wagering facilities and broadcast horseracing events to other licensed establishments. 

Potential Federal Horseracing Legislation 

In April 2015, the Teller All Gone Horseracing Deregulation Act was filed for consideration in the Senate. Identical legislation, Coronado Heights Horseracing Deregulation Act, was filed in the House of Representatives. The proposed legislation would repeal the IHA, effectively prohibiting the operation of advance deposit wagering on horse races. If enacted into law, the legislation could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

In July 2015, the Thoroughbred Horseracing Integrity Act of 2015 was filed. Under the terms of the legislation, the United States Anti-Doping Agency ("USADA") is designated as the organization responsible for regulating drugs, medications and treatments used in racing and would prohibit interstate wagering without consent from USADA. If enacted into law, the legislation could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Specific State Racing Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

Kentucky 

Horseracing tracks in Kentucky are subject to the licensing and regulation of the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission ("KHRC"). The KHRC is responsible for overseeing horseracing and regulating the state equine industry. Licenses to conduct live thoroughbred racing meets, to participate in simulcasting and to accept ADW wagers from Kentucky residents are approved annually by the KHRC based upon applications submitted by the racetracks in Kentucky. To some extent, Churchill Downs competes with other racetracks in Kentucky for the award of racing dates, however, the KHRC is required by state law to consider and seek to preserve each racetrack&#8217;s usual and customary live racing dates. During October 2015, Churchill Downs received re-approval to conduct an 11-day September meet during 2016, in addition to its traditional spring and fall racing meets. 

Illinois 

In Illinois, licenses to conduct live thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are approved by the Illinois Racing Board ("IRB"). In September 2015, the IRB appointed Arlington the host track in Illinois for 64 simulcast host days during 2016, an increase of 41 days compared to 2015. In addition, Arlington was awarded 216 live host days for 2016, an increase of 36 days as compared to 2015. 

On January 29, 2014, the Illinois legislature approved regulations to reauthorize ADW wagering though January 2017 and began imposing an incremental surcharge on winning wagers of 0.2%, in addition to the previous surcharge of 0.18%. The legislation was approved by the Illinois legislature and signed by the Governor of Illinois during January 2014. 

Florida 

In Florida, licenses to conduct live thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are approved by the Department of Business and Professional Regulation's Division of Pari-mutuel Wagering ("DPW"). The DPW is responsible for overseeing the network of state offices located at every pari-mutuel wagering facility, as well as issuing the permits necessary to operate a pari-mutuel wagering facility. The DPW also issues annual licenses for thoroughbred, standardbred and quarter horse races but does not approve the specific live race days. During 2013, Calder and Gulfstream Park began conducting concurrent live thoroughbred racing in certain months, leading to an overlapping of live racing resulting in direct competition for on-track horseracing and horses in South Florida, as well as the intrastate and interstate simulcasting markets. This negatively affected Calder&#8217;s ability to achieve full field horseraces and to generate handle on live racing in 2013. Our agreement with TSG to operate the Calder racetrack until December 31, 2020 eliminated this conflict. 

Louisiana 

In Louisiana, licenses to conduct live thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are approved by the Louisiana State Racing Commission ("LSRC"). The LSRC is responsible for overseeing the awarding of licenses for the conduct of live racing meets, the conduct of thoroughbred horseracing, the types of wagering that may be offered by pari-mutuel facilities and 

the disposition of revenue generated from wagering. Off-track wagering is also regulated by the LSRC. Louisiana law requires live racing at a licensed racetrack for at least 80 days over a 20 week period each year to maintain the license and to conduct casino operations. 

With the addition of slot machines at Fair Grounds, Louisiana law requires live quarter horseracing to be conducted at the racetrack. We conducted quarter horseracing at Fair Grounds for 14 days in 2013, 12 days in 2014, 10 days in 2015 and expect to conduct quarter horseracing for 10 days in 2016. 

In May 2015, legislation was signed into law that will direct all revenue from unclaimed pari-mutuel wagering tickets and electronic gaming jackpots to a crime victims reparations fund to help pay for medical related expenses of sexual assault victims. We do not expect the legislation to have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Casino Regulations and Legislative Changes 

Casino laws are generally designed to protect casino consumers and the viability and integrity of the casino industry. Casino laws may also be designed to protect and maximize state and local revenue derived through taxes and licensing fees imposed on casino industry participants as well as to enhance economic development and tourism. To accomplish these public policy goals, casino laws establish procedures to ensure that participants in the casino industry meet certain standards of character and fitness. In addition, casino laws require casino industry participants to: 

&#8226; 

Ensure that unsuitable individuals and organizations have no role in casino operations; 

&#8226; 

Establish procedures designed to prevent cheating and fraudulent practices; 

&#8226; 

Establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures; 

&#8226; 

Maintain effective controls over financial practices, including establishment of minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenue; 

&#8226; 

Maintain systems for reliable record keeping; 

&#8226; 

File periodic reports with casino regulators; 

&#8226; 

Ensure that contracts and financial transactions are commercially reasonable, reflect fair market value and are arms-length transactions; 

&#8226; 

Establish programs to promote responsible gambling and inform patrons of the availability of help for problem gambling; and 

&#8226; 

Enforce minimum age requirements. 

Typically, a state regulatory environment is established by statute and administered by a regulatory agency with broad discretion to regulate the affairs of owners, managers and persons with financial interests in casino operations. Among other things, casino authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate: 

&#8226; 

Adopt rules and regulations under the implementing statutes; 

&#8226; 

Interpret and enforce casino laws; 

&#8226; 

Impose disciplinary sanctions for violations, including fines and penalties; 

&#8226; 

Review the character and fitness of participants in casino operations and make determinations regarding suitability or qualification for licensure; 

&#8226; 

Grant licenses for participation in casino operations; 

&#8226; 

Collect and review reports and information submitted by participants in casino operations; 

&#8226; 

Review and approve transactions, such as acquisitions or change-of-control transactions of casino industry participants, securities offerings and debt transactions engaged in by such participants; and 

&#8226; 

Establish and collect fees and taxes. 

Any change in the laws or regulations of a casino jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on our casino operations. 

Licensing and Suitability Determinations 

Gaming laws require us, each of our subsidiaries engaged in casino operations, certain of our directors, officers and employees, and in some cases, certain of our shareholders, to obtain licenses from casino authorities. Licenses typically require a determination that the applicant qualifies or is suitable to hold the license. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant qualifies for licensing or should be deemed suitable. Criteria used in determining whether to grant a license to conduct 

casino operations, while varying between jurisdictions, generally include consideration of factors such as the good character, honesty and integrity of the applicant; the financial stability, integrity and responsibility of the applicant, including whether the operation is adequately capitalized in the state and exhibits the ability to maintain adequate insurance levels; the quality of the applicant&#8217;s casino facilities; the amount of revenue to be derived by the applicable state from the operation of the applicant&#8217;s casino; the applicant&#8217;s practices with respect to minority hiring and training; and the effect on competition and general impact on the community. 

In evaluating individual applicants, casino authorities consider the individual&#8217;s business experience and reputation for good character, the individual&#8217;s criminal history and the character of those with whom the individual associates. 

Many casino jurisdictions limit the number of licenses granted to operate casinos within the state and some states limit the number of licenses granted to any one casino operator. Licenses under casino laws are generally not transferable without approval. Licenses in most of the jurisdictions in which we conduct casino operations are granted for limited durations and require renewal from time to time. There can be no assurance that any of our licenses will be renewed. The failure to renew any of our licenses could have a material adverse impact on our casino operations. 

In addition to our subsidiaries engaged in casino operations, casino authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with, any of these entities to determine whether such individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a casino licensee. Our officers, directors and certain key employees must file applications with the casino authorities and may be required to be licensed, qualify or be found suitable in many jurisdictions. Gaming authorities may deny an application for licensing for any cause that they deem reasonable. Qualification and suitability determinations require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant must pay all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to casino authorities. In addition to casino authorities' ability to deny a license, qualification or finding of suitability, casino authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. 

If one or more casino authorities were to find that an officer, director or key employee fails to qualify or is unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would be required to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, casino authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. 

Moreover, in many jurisdictions, certain of our shareholders may be required to undergo a suitability investigation similar to that described above. Many jurisdictions require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of our voting securities, typically 5%, to report the acquisition to casino authorities, and casino authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability. Most casino authorities, however, allow an "institutional investor" to apply for a waiver. An "institutional investor" is generally defined as an investor acquiring and holding voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor, and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a member of our board of directors, any change in our corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations, or those of any of our casino affiliates, or the taking of any other action which casino authorities find to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities for investment purposes only. Even if a waiver is granted, an institutional investor generally may not take any action inconsistent with its status when the waiver was granted without once again becoming subject to the foregoing reporting and application obligations. 

Generally, any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within the prescribed period after being advised it is required by casino authorities may be denied a license or found unsuitable, as applicable. Any shareholder found unsuitable or denied a license and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of our voting securities beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the applicable casino authorities may be guilty of a criminal offense. Furthermore, we may be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a shareholder or to have any other relationship with us or any of our subsidiaries, we: (i) pay that person any dividend or interest upon our voting securities; (ii) allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person; (iii) pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or (iv) fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of said voting securities for cash at fair market value. 

Violations of Gaming Laws 

If we violate applicable casino laws, our casino licenses could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked by casino authorities, and we and any other persons involved could be subject to substantial fines. A supervisor or conservator can be appointed by casino authorities to operate our casino properties, or in some jurisdictions, take title to our casino assets in the jurisdiction, and under certain circumstances, income generated during such appointment could be forfeited to the applicable state or states. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. As a result, violations by us of applicable casino laws could have a material adverse impact on our casino operations. 

Some casino jurisdictions prohibit certain types of political activity by a casino licensee, its officers, directors and key employees. A violation of such a prohibition may subject the offender to criminal and/or disciplinary action. 

Reporting and Record-keeping Requirements 

We are required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports and furnish any other information that casino authorities may require. Under federal law, we are required to record and submit detailed reports of currency transactions involving greater than $10,000 at our casinos and racetracks as well as any suspicious activity that may occur at such facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines or cessation of operations. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger that may be examined by casino authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to casino authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. Gaming authorities may require certificates for our securities to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to specified casino laws. 

Review and Approval of Transactions 

Substantially all material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to and in some cases approved by casino authorities. We may not make a public offering of securities without the prior approval of certain casino authorities. Changes in control through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or otherwise are subject to receipt of prior approval of casino authorities. Entities seeking to acquire control of us or one of our subsidiaries must satisfy casino authorities with respect to a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. Gaming authorities may also require controlling shareholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. 

License Fees and Gaming Taxes 

We pay substantial license fees and taxes in many jurisdictions in connection with our casino operations which are computed in various ways depending on the type of gambling or activity involved. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable with varying frequency. License fees and taxes are based upon such factors as a percentage of the gross casino revenue received; the number of gambling devices and table games operated; or a one-time fee payable upon the initial receipt of license and fees in connection with the renewal of license. In some jurisdictions, casino tax rates are graduated such that the tax rates increase as gross casino revenue increases. Tax rates are subject to change, sometimes with little notice, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our casino operations. 

Operational Requirements 

In most jurisdictions, we are subject to certain requirements and restrictions on how we must conduct our casino operations. In certain states, we are required to give preference to local suppliers and include minority and women-owned businesses and organized labor in construction projects to the maximum extent practicable. We may be required to give employment preference to minorities, women and in-state residents in certain jurisdictions. Our ability to conduct certain types of games, introduce new games or move existing games within our facilities may be restricted or subject to regulatory review and approval. Some of our operations are subject to restrictions on the number of gaming positions we may have and the maximum wagers allowed to be placed by our customers. 

Specific State Casino Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

Maine 

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Maine is subject to extensive state and local regulation and is subject to licensing and regulatory control by the Maine Gambling Control Board (the "MGCB"). The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the MGCB are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things: (1) the regulation, supervision and general control over casinos and the ownership and operation of slot machines and table games; (2) the investigation of complaints made regarding casinos; (3) the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures; (4) the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenue and providing for reliable record keeping; and (5) the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices. The regulations are subject to amendment and interpretation by the MGCB. Changes in Maine laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our Maine gaming operations. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the MGCB could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Potential Expanded Gaming in Maine 

In April 2015, legislation was filed for consideration that would expand gaming locations in the state and allow for entities such as Native American tribes and a harness track located in Southern Maine to operate casino facilities. Legislation authorizing a 

northern Maine casino benefiting Native American tribes expired during the legislative session. Proposed legislation allowing for a Southern Maine casino was rolled over to the 2016 legislative session. Should gaming expansion occur in Maine, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Mississippi 

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Mississippi is subject to extensive state and local regulation, including the Mississippi Gaming Commission (the "Mississippi Commission"). The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Mississippi Commission are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things: (1) the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; (2) the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures; (3) the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenue, providing for reliable record keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Mississippi Commission; (4) the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; (5) providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees; and (6) ensuring that gaming licensees, to the extent practicable, employ Mississippi residents. The regulations are subject to amendment and interpretation by the Mississippi Commission. Changes in Mississippi laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our Mississippi gaming operations. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the Mississippi Commission could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Florida 

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Florida is subject to extensive state and local regulation, primarily by the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation (the "DBPR"), within the executive branch of Florida&#8217;s state government. The DBPR is charged with the regulation of Florida&#8217;s pari-mutuel, card room and slot gaming industries, as well as collecting and safeguarding associated revenue due to the state. The DBPR has been designated by the Florida legislature as the state compliance agency with the authority to carry out the state&#8217;s oversight responsibilities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the compact between the Seminole Tribe of Florida and the State of Florida. Changes in Florida laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our Florida gaming operation. The laws and regulations of Florida are based on policies of maintaining the health, welfare and safety of the general public and protecting the video gaming industry from elements of organized crime, illegal gambling activities and other harmful elements, as well as protecting the public from illegal and unscrupulous gaming to ensure the fair play of devices. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the DBPR could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Potential Seminole Compact and Potential Decoupling in Florida 

In December 2015, Florida&#8217;s Governor signed a twenty-year Seminole Compact with the Seminole Tribe preserving the Tribe's geographic exclusivity and right to exclusively operate blackjack, craps and roulette games and providing the state with an expected $3.0 billion in additional state revenue over a seven-year period beginning in 2017. The Seminole Compact addresses other issues such as the potential for pari-mutuel operations to add blackjack in a limited fashion as well as the potential for expanded licenses in Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties. The Seminole Compact must be approved by the Florida Legislature. In February 2016, legislation authorizing the Seminole Compact was introduced for consideration. 

In February 2016, legislation was introduced in the Florida House and Senate that would provide for significant changes to Florida&#8217;s pari-mutuel industry. The House bill would allow pari-mutuel racetracks in Miami-Dade and Broward counties to elect to decouple, relieving the facility of the obligation to conduct pari-mutuel operations, would require a reduction in the number of authorized gaming positions to a specified level in order to obtain a reduction in the gaming tax to 25% of casino revenue, would allow gaming facilities to be open continuously and would authorize additional gaming licenses in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach counties. The House bill would create a $10 million purse pool funded by revenues from the Seminole Compact. The Senate bill would allow pari-mutuel racetracks in Miami-Dade and Broward counties to elect to decouple, would establish a permit buyback program under which the state would purchase racing permits from pari-mutuel racetracks that decouple and would create a purse pool funded by revenues from the Seminole Compact and the pari-mutuel racetracks that elect to decouple. The Senate legislation provides for additional gaming licenses in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach counties, permits the operation of slot machines in six counties that have passed local referendums authorizing the activity, establishes a 25% tax rate on casino revenue, provides for gaming facilities to be open continuously and allows for facilities in Miami-Dade and Broward counties, as well as Tampa Bay Downs, to operate up to twenty-five blackjack tables. The Senate bill makes cardroom operations contingent upon having an agreement with a thoroughbred racetrack to pay 4% of monthly cardroom revenue to fund purses. 

At this time it is not possible to determine what impact legislation with respect to authorizing the Seminole Compact or decoupling and other provisions will have on our business. 

Louisiana 

The manufacture, distribution, servicing and operation of video draw poker devices in Louisiana are subject to the Louisiana Video Draw Poker Devices Control Law and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The manufacture, distribution, servicing and operation of video poker devices and slot machines are governed by the Louisiana Gaming Control Board (the "Louisiana Board") which oversees all licensing for all forms of legalized gaming in Louisiana. The Video Gaming Division and the Slots Gaming Division of the Gaming Enforcement Section of the Office of the State Police within the Department of Public Safety and Corrections (the "Division") performs the video poker and slots gaming investigative functions for the Louisiana Board. The laws and regulations of Louisiana are based on policies of maintaining the health, welfare and safety of the general public and protecting the video gaming industry from elements of organized crime, illegal gambling activities and other harmful elements, as well as protecting the public from illegal and unscrupulous gaming to ensure the fair play of devices. The Louisiana Board also regulates slot machine gaming at racetrack facilities pursuant to the Louisiana Pari-Mutuel Live Racing Facility Economic Redevelopment and Gaming Control Act. Changes in Louisiana laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our Louisiana gaming operations. In addition, the LSRC also issues licenses required for Fair Grounds to operate slot machines at the racetrack and video poker devices at its OTBs. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the Louisiana Board or the LSRC could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

On January 22, 2015, the New Orleans City Council approved a smoking ban in bars and other public places, including casinos, in Orleans Parish which took effect on April 22, 2015. The smoking ban had a negative impact on Fair Grounds Slots which was partially offset by VSI, whose OTB locations are located outside of Orleans Parish. During the third quarter of 2015, we opened an outdoor smoking patio for our patrons at Fair Grounds Slots. At this time, it is not possible to determine the full impact of the smoking ban on our business. 

Ohio 

Video Lottery was introduced in the State of Ohio in 2012 when the Governor of Ohio signed Executive Order 2011-22K which authorized the Ohio Lottery Commission ("the OLC") to amend and adopt rules necessary to implement a video lottery program at Ohio&#8217;s seven horse racing facilities. The ownership and operation of VLT facilities in the State of Ohio is subject to extensive state and local regulation. The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the OLC include 1) regulating the licensing of video lottery sales agents (VLSA), key gaming employees and VLT manufacturers; 2) collecting and disbursing VLT revenue; and 3) maintaining compliance in regulatory matters. Changes in Ohio laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our Ohio gaming operations. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the OLC could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Potential Ohio Video Lottery Sales 

In April 2015, State Bill 140 was introduced that would remove the ability of a video lottery sales agent, such as our joint venture investment in MVG, to offer promotional play unless specific criteria are met. Under the terms of the bill, in order for a video lottery sales agent to offer promotional play, the agent must have at least 90% of the statutorily allocated video lottery terminals on the gaming floor and the agent must generate at least $165 million in revenue. If the agent meets both criteria, not only will the agent qualify to offer up to $5 million of promotional play, the agent may offer expanded types of video lottery games. If enacted, we expect the legislation to have a material adverse impact on our business. 

New York 

The ownership and operation of VLT facilities in New York are governed by the New York State Gaming Commission ("NYSGC") under the New York State Lottery for Education Law. The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the NYSGC include: 1) regulating the licensing of video lottery gaming agents, principal key gaming employees and VLT manufacturers; 2) collecting and disbursing VLT revenue; and 3) maintaining compliance in regulatory matters. Changes in New York laws or regulations may limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted and such changes, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our New York gaming operations. The failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the NYSGC could have a material impact on our business. 

During 2012, the Governor of New York and legislative leaders agreed to legalize casino gaming and seek an amendment to the state constitution that would authorize such gaming and, during 2013, New York voters approved a constitutional amendment authorizing up to seven casinos in the state. On May 13, 2014, we entered into a 50% joint venture with SHRI to bid on the development, construction and operation of Capital View located in the Capital Region near Albany, New York. On December 17, 2014, the Gaming Facility Location Board ("Location Board") announced the award of three casino licenses in the state and awarded the Capital Region license to another bidder, but the Location Board did not award a fourth available license in the Southern Region. In December 2014, the Governor of New York appealed to the Location Board to reconsider awarding the fourth license in the state. During January 2015, the Location Board reopened the bidding process for casino license applications for the fourth license. In October 2015, the Location Board approved Tioga Downs to apply for the fourth and final New York license. 

After a 7-year exclusivity period, the state may award additional licenses. An expansion of gaming in New York includes incentives for the horse racing industry. At this time, it is not possible to determine the impact casino gaming could have on our business. 

The New York state budget was signed into law in April 2015 and included a provision authorizing the expansion of video lottery terminal games at six racetracks, including Saratoga. Specifically, the measure will allow racetracks to add electronic blackjack and poker games under the classification of games of chance and not skill. We expect the legislation to result in a favorable impact to our business. 

Potential New York Interactive Gaming Legislation 

In January 2016, legislation was filed that would authorize VLT operators and casino licensees to be eligible for an interactive gaming license. The bill provides that an interactive gaming licensee would be authorized to offer online poker games under a ten-year license. The proposed legislation limits the number of licenses to ten, establishes an initial $10 million license fee and establishes a tax rate of 15% of interactive gross gaming revenue. If passed, the legislation could result in a favorable impact to our business. 

Kentucky 

Potential Kentucky Expanded Gaming Legislation 

On February 3, 2016, Senate Bill 144 was introduced for consideration during the 2016 legislative session. Senate Bill 144 is a constitutional amendment that authorizes the legislature to permit casino gaming and to develop a framework for casino gaming. Under the terms of the constitutional amendment, 90% of revenue generated from licensing fees and taxation would be directed to the state's pension fund. The remaining 10% of revenue would be dedicated to Kentucky's horse industry. If the constitutional amendment is approved by the Legislature during the 2016 session, it will appear on the November 2016 ballot. If enacted, the legislation could have a material positive impact on our business. 

Illinois 

Potential Illinois Expanded Gaming Legislation 

On March 27, 2015, House Bill 2939 and House Bill 3564 were filed in the Illinois legislature. House Bill 2939 would authorize a state owned Chicago casino with 4,000 to 12,000 gaming positions. House Bill 3564 proposes to authorize five new casinos, a Chicago casino and electronic gaming at all Illinois racetracks except Fairmount Park Racetrack. Cook County racetracks would be authorized to operate 600 positions, while certain other racetracks would be authorized for 450 positions. The legislation remains pending for consideration during the 2016 legislative session. If enacted, the legislation could have a material positive impact on our business. 

TwinSpires Regulations and Legislative Changes 

TwinSpires is licensed in Oregon under a multi-jurisdictional simulcasting and interactive wagering totalisator hub license issued by the Oregon Racing Commission ("ORC") and in accordance with Oregon law. TwinSpires also holds ADW licenses in certain other states where required such as California, Illinois, Idaho, Kentucky, Maryland, Virginia, Colorado, Arizona, Wyoming, Arkansas, New York and Washington. Changes in the form of new legislation or regulatory activity at the state or federal level could adversely impact our ADW business. 

Potential Federal Internet Gaming 

On February 4, 2015, the Restoration of America&#8217;s Wire Act ("HR 707") was reintroduced for consideration in the House of Representatives. HR 707 is identical to the Restoration of America&#8217;s Wire Act legislation proposed in 2014 and is crafted to reverse a 2011 decision by the Justice Department that interpreted the Wire Act of 1961 ("Wire Act") to not apply to interstate transmissions of wire communications except when related to sports betting. As written, HR 707 would restore the interpretation of the Wire Act prior to the 2011 Justice Department decision and effectively prohibit online gaming. The legislation does not grandfather in states currently operating Internet gaming, but does allow for online wagering on horseracing placed in compliance with the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 to continue. 

In June 2015, the Restoration of America&#8217;s Wire Act was introduced in the Senate. While the legislation is substantially similar to the version introduced in the House, the Senate bill would allow the Internet to be used to facilitate on-premises sales of lottery tickets and lottery subscriptions, but does not authorize the sale of lottery tickets online. It is difficult to assess the probability of legislation passing at the federal level, the form of any final legislation, or its impact on our business. 

Potential State Legislative Changes 

Florida 

In January 2016, legislation was filed that would authorize and regulate, but not tax, advance deposit wagering in the state. If enacted, we do not believe the legislation will have an impact on our business. It is difficult to assess the probability of legislation 

passing at the state level, the form of any final legislation, or its impact on our business. 

Indiana 

In January of 2016, legislation was filed related to advance deposit wagering operation in the state. Although the legislation does not specifically authorize advance deposit wagering, a 6% tax is imposed on all Indiana citizens who place wagers through an ADW operator. If enacted, the legislation could have a negative impact on our business. 

Maine 

In 2015, legislation was filed that would regulate advance deposit wagering and implement a 6.5% tax on net commissions of the ADW licensee. Under the terms of the legislation, a commercial race track would have first right to apply for advance deposit wagering license. If the commercial track does not apply or subsequently relinquishes their license, an OTB or a multi-jurisdictional account wagering provider may apply for a license. The legislation failed to advance during the 2015 legislative session but rolled over for consideration in 2016. If enacted, the legislation could have a negative impact on our business. 

Big Fish Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 

We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations that affect our business, including those relating to the privacy and security of customer and employee personal information and those relating to the Internet, behavioral tracking, mobile applications, advertising and marketing activities, sweepstakes and contests. Additional laws in all of these areas are likely to be passed in the future which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the ways in which we can collect, use, host, store or transmit the personal information and data of our customers or employees, communicate with our customers, and deliver products and services, or may significantly increase our compliance costs. As our business expands to include new uses or collection of data that is subject to privacy or security regulations, our compliance requirements and costs will increase and we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. 

Some of our games and features are based upon traditional casino games such as slots and table games. We structure and operate these games and features, including Big Fish Casino and Vegas Party Slots , with the gambling laws in mind and believe that these games and features do not constitute gambling. 

Other Investments Regulations and Potential Legislative Changes 

Potential California Internet Poker 

In February 2016, Assembly Bill 2863 was introduced in California. Assembly Bill 2863 would authorize the operation of Internet poker and provide that cardrooms and federally recognized Indian tribes qualify as entities eligible to apply for a license. Racetracks would not be permitted to apply for an Internet poker license but would receive an annual $60 million appropriation from the state. The legislation establishes a licensure period of seven years but does not set forth licensing fees or taxes. The potential effect of Assembly Bill 2863 on our business cannot be determined at this time. 

Potential Pennsylvania Internet Poker 

During February and March 2015, House Bill 649 and House Bill 695 authorizing Internet poker in Pennsylvania were introduced for consideration during the 2015 legislative session. Both bills would authorize existing Pennsylvania casinos to offer Internet poker, require a license fee of $5 million, establish a 14% tax on gross gaming revenue and permit the state to enter into interactive gaming agreements with other jurisdictions. The potential impact of this pending legislation on our business cannot be determined at this time. 

On April 7, 2015, House Bill 920, was introduced and would allow existing casinos to offer Internet gaming on casino style games, establish a $5 million licensing fee, institute a 28% tax rate on gross gaming revenue and allow the state to enter into interstate compacts or reciprocal agreements with other jurisdictions. The potential impact of this pending legislation on our business cannot be determined at this time. 

E. Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as the management and disposal of solid, animal and hazardous wastes and exposure to hazardous materials. These laws and regulations which are complex and subject to change, include United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and state laws and regulations that address the impacts of manure and wastewater generated by Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations ("CAFO") on water quality, including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary water discharges. CAFO and other water discharge regulations include permit requirements and water quality discharge standards. Enforcement of these regulations has been receiving increased governmental attention. Compliance with these and other environmental laws can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. We may incur future costs under existing and new laws and regulations pertaining to storm water and wastewater management at our racetracks. Moreover, violations can result in significant penalties and, in some instances, interruption or cessation of operations. 

In the ordinary course of our business, we may receive notices from regulatory agencies regarding our compliance with CAFO regulations that may require remediation at our facilities. On December 6, 2013, we received a notice from the EPA regarding alleged CAFO non-compliance at Fair Grounds. We are currently in discussions with the EPA and United States Department of Justice and we expect to incur certain capital expenditures to remediate the alleged CAFO non-compliance. The capital expenditures are expected to extend the life of the assets. 

We also are subject to laws and regulations that create liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances or petroleum products on its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances may materially adversely affect the ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow funds using such property as collateral. Additionally, the owner of a property may be subject to claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. 

F. Marks and Internet Properties 

We hold numerous state and federal service mark registrations on specific names and designs in various categories including the entertainment business, apparel, paper goods, printed matter, housewares and glass. We license the use of these service marks and derive revenue from such license agreements. 

G. Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 4,530 full-time and part-time employees Company-wide. Due to the seasonal nature of our live racing business, the number of seasonal and part-time persons employed will vary throughout the year. 

H. Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, and any amendments to those reports and any other filings that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website ( www.churchilldownsincorporated.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the materials with the SEC and are also available at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . These reports may also be obtained from the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. 

