 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

&#160; 

Chegg is the leading student-first connected learning platform. Our goal is to help students transition from high school to college to career, with a view to improving student outcomes. We help students study more effectively for college admissions exams, find the right college to accomplish their goals, get better grades and test scores while in school, and find internships that allow them to gain valuable skills to help them enter the workforce after college. We strive to improve the overall return on investment in education by helping students learn more in less time and at a lower cost. During 2015 , nearly 6.4 million &#32;students turned to Chegg to save time, save money and get smarter. 

In 2015 , we matched approximately 5.0 million &#32;domestic and international students with colleges and universities and other academic institutions, which we collectively refer to as colleges, in the United States. Students get help finding the best fit school for them and colleges are able to reach the best candidates at a fraction of the cost of traditional marketing. In November 2015, we also launched Test Prep which is currently designed to help students increase their standardized SAT and ACT exam scores to improve their chances of getting accepted to a school of their choice. Once in college, we provide a range of products and services to help students save time, save money and get smarter. We offer Required Materials, which includes products that are essential for students to meet the requirements of their coursework, including an extensive print textbook and eTextbook library for rent and sale, in part through our strategic partnership with Ingram Content Group (Ingram). We expect our partnership with Ingram to allow us to focus primarily on our products and services other than Required Materials, which we refer to as "Chegg Services". In 2015 , we provided over 6.4 million &#32;textbooks and eTextbooks, and over 1.4 million &#32;students subscribed to our digital services, such as our Chegg Study service, which provides step-by-step Textbook Solutions and Expert Answers, helping students with their course work. When students are really stuck, they can reach a live tutor online, anytime, anywhere. Finally, as of December 31, 2015 , we provided access to over 320,000 &#32;internships to help students gain skills and experiences that are critical to securing their first job. 

To deliver these services, we partner with several third parties. In 2015 , we entered into agreements with over 500 &#32;colleges to help shape their incoming classes. During 2015 , we sourced print textbooks, eTextbooks and supplemental materials directly or indirectly from thousands of publishers in the United States, including Pearson, Cengage Learning, McGraw Hill, Wiley and MacMillan. We have a large network of students and professionals who leverage our platform to tutor in their spare time. As of December 31, 2015 , more than 94,000 &#32;employers leverage our platform to post their internships and jobs. In addition, because we have a large student audience, local and national brands partner with us to reach the college and high school demographic. 

Our Offering 

We offer products and services that help students throughout the student lifecycle, from choosing a college while in high school, through college graduation and beyond. We are continually expanding our offerings at each stage of a student's lifecycle, both for students and for third parties that share in our vision to put students first. 

Enrollment 

College Admissions and Scholarship Services. &#32;Our College Admissions and Scholarship Services allow high school students to highlight their interests, passions and personalities in a way that transcripts and standardized tests do not. During 2015 , we received 20.7 million &#32;inquiries from students through our College Admissions and Scholarship Services or through our affiliate network. Our goal is to connect high school students to the &#8220;best fit&#8221; educational and scholarship opportunities at colleges. We strive to present relevant matches for each student, and, in the process, reduce stress, time and costs, while improving student satisfaction and graduation rates. On Chegg.com, we connect community and junior college students with &#8220;best fit&#8221; possibilities to transfer to four-year colleges based on their profile information. If a student expresses an interest in a college, her profile matches the expressed interest of a college, or our matching technology determines she might be a fit with a college in our network, we offer the student an opportunity to connect with that college. Students in high school or college can use our &#8220;Scholarship Match&#8221; tool to create a profile, which includes information such as their high school, GPA, intended major, demographic background, college preferences and areas of interest. Based on this information, our tool can connect these students with scholarship opportunities based on their profiles from a total database of more than $1.0 &#32;billion in scholarship and merit aid awards as of December 31, 2015 . 

Enrollment Marketing Services. We provide colleges with admission and transfer support through our enrollment marketing services, delivering 5.0 million &#32;paid inquiries for interested students during 2015 . Using the information from the college-bound high school students who fill out a profile using our College Admissions and Scholarship Services and from our affiliate network, we provide colleges with potential candidates and help them attract and shape their classes in a more cost effective manner. The inquiries can be based either on students&#8217; expressed preference for a particular college or matching students&#8217; general preferences with college profiles. We only provide student contact information to colleges after the student has agreed to be referred. Colleges pay for these services on a per-student basis or on a subscription fee basis. For colleges, we help reduce the costs of recruiting and support enrollment and retention rates. Rather than spending hundreds or thousands of dollars per enrollment, colleges that use our enrollment marketing services can realize recruiting costs of generally less than $ 100 &#32;per student enrolled through our enrollment marketing services, and we believe they are better able to shape their incoming class, reducing transfers and drop-outs by using our services. 

Test Prep . In November 2015, we launched a beta version of our interactive Test Prep product, covering the SAT and ACT exams. Our goal is to provide all students access to an affordable, high-quality and comprehensive online test preparation product that helps students improve their test scores. We are currently testing a free version of Test Prep with students to review and analyze Test Prep content and functionality. 

College 

Print Textbooks. &#32;Most of the print textbook transactions are rentals, although we also offer both new and used books for sale at a slight markup to our acquisition cost. In 2014, we implemented a partnership with Ingram, which in May 2015, we expanded so that Ingram fulfills all of our print textbook rentals and a portion of our textbook sales. We offer a compelling value proposition to students as the price to rent a book through Chegg is significantly lower than the purchase price of a new or used book. Orders are shipped to students in a distinctive orange Chegg box that typically arrives within three business days. We expect our partnership with Ingram to allow us to shorten the average book delivery time for students. At the end of the academic term, students are able to return a rented textbook in this same box for free. We also offer &#8220;Instant Access&#8221; to eTextbooks with participating publishers, which is a one-week free trial of our eTextbook service, allowing the student to access the eTextbook while the print copy is in transit. Our data shows students value this service and find it a great way to learn more about the eTextbook experience. 

eTextbooks. &#32;All eTextbooks obtained from Chegg are accessed through our proprietary HTML5-web-based eTextbook Reader. Our eTextbook Reader provides students with access to eTextbooks on PCs, tablets and smart phones, providing access anytime, anywhere to students that are connected to the Internet and giving students the ability to save a portion of the book for offline access. Our eTextbook Reader enables fast and easy navigation, keyword search, text highlighting, note taking and further preserves those notes in an online notepad with persistence of highlighting and notes across platforms. 

Print textbooks and eTextbooks are part of our Required Materials. In 2015 , we rented or sold over 6.4 million &#32;print textbooks and eTextbooks. 

Supplemental Materials. &#32;In addition to textbooks, we offer students access to other materials from publishers, professors, students and subject matter experts. These include related materials like study guides, lab manuals or digital services provided by publishers, commonly known as &#8220;Whole Course Solutions&#8221; or &#8220;Integrated Learning Systems.&#8221; We tailor our merchandising of these materials based on the student&#8217;s core textbook. 

Chegg Study. &#32;Our Chegg Study service helps students master challenging concepts on their own. For high demand print and electronic textbooks, primarily in the sciences, technology, engineering, mathematics, statistics, business and economic subjects, we offer &#8220;Textbook Solutions,&#8221; which are step-by-step answers to the questions at the end of each chapter in a student&#8217;s textbook. For other questions, we offer our Expert Answers service, where a student can ask a question on our website and subject matter experts will provide detailed answers. As of December 31, 2015 , Chegg has already created an archive of over 7.0 million &#32;responses to which students can immediately access. These services are available on our website and on mobile devices, via our native application and our mobile website. 

Tutoring . Complementing our other study tools, we have live tutors on our connected learning platform. Students can access help online, anytime, anywhere either synchronously or asynchronously. Instead of paying for expensive, offline tutors that require scheduling and travel time, students can come to Chegg to find highly rated tutors whenever they are stuck and pay as little as $0.40 &#32;per minute. Our tutors are qualified to help students with a wide range of topics, including history, foreign languages, English literature, science, technology, engineering, mathematics and business, along with test prep and a variety of other highly-requested subjects. Students can subscribe to weekly or monthly packages, or choose to use the service on a pay-as-you-go basis. 

Textbook Buyback. &#32;We offer students, on behalf of our fulfillment partner Ingram, the ability to sell us their textbooks, even if they were not originally purchased from us, and in turn those textbooks are offered to other students for purchase or rent, or sold to wholesalers. Students provide us with the ISBN of each textbook they are willing to sell, and we let them know how much we are willing to pay based on our real-time market driven algorithms. Ingram reimburses us the amounts we pay to students for these purchases. If our offer is accepted, we provide a pre-printed label and shipping instructions. 

Career 

Internships. &#32;Internships are a highly effective way for students to gain work experience before graduation. In a recent survey, 65% of companies that responded offered full-time jobs to interns. As of December 31, 2015 , our internships marketplace connects students to over 320,000 &#32;internships with more than 94,000 &#32;employers across the country. Students search and apply for internships directly through our website. Students can upload their resume to be matched by us to internship opportunities. Employers can post their internships and manage the process with our applicant tracking system. We currently offer internships as a free service. 

Brand Partnerships 

We offer unique and compelling ways for brands with relevant products and services to reach and engage high school and college students at important and memorable transition points in their lives, such as preparing for college, preparing for back-to-school or as they approach graduation and prepare for a career or graduate school. We work closely with brands to integrate their services and products with ours. Our brand advertising services include digital advertising on our platform, product samples, white label integrations, discounts and other promotions shipped directly to students in our distinctive orange Chegg boxes and experiential offerings that may include, for example, on-campus events, sponsorships and other brand ambassador work. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we had advertising contracts with approximately 60 &#32;consumer brands. 

Technology and Platform Integration 

Our technology is designed to create a connected learning platform that is built to enable our future growth at scale. We employ technological innovations whenever possible to increase efficiency and scale in our business. Our products rely upon and leverage the information underlying the Student Graph discussed in more detail below. We will continue to invest in building technologies around our data, search and solutions. The key elements of our technology platform are: 

Personalization and Merchandising Technology . We create a personalized experience for each student throughout our connected learning platform, building awareness of our multiple services and also connecting them with opportunities through third-party partners and brands. We are able to accomplish this personalization and customization as a result of the Student Graph and our search technology. 

Student Graph . Our Student Graph is the accumulation of the collective activity of students in our network. Students provide us information each time they engage with our platform. The Student Graph also includes information we access from public and private sources to integrate into our platform such as textbook information, information about colleges and scholarship data. We are able to collect, organize and process this information to algorithmically create a personalized experience for each student on our network. 

Search . Search is an easy on-ramp for students to discover all of our services. Students can search by book, ISBN, author&#8217;s name or course. Most students come to us for textbook rentals, and in our search results we not only provide the relevant textbook, but also begin to build awareness of our other services. For instance, when a student searches for a textbook, we can also expose that student to tutors, Expert Answers, and Textbook Solutions that are relevant to that textbook. We may also display a free Chegg Study offer where we have Textbook Solutions for that textbook. We also provide personalized search results based on information in the Student Graph. 

Data Sourcing and Graph Technology . Not all information relevant to students on our platform is made available by service, product, list or user-input. Therefore, we have developed proprietary technologies to collect disparate, distributed sets of data. For example, we access data from public and private sources to integrate into our platform to inform our decisions about our textbook catalog and pricing. 

Mobile Solutions . We have mobile applications on Apple iOS and Google Android. Our mobile apps are built as hybrid applications leveraging the Chegg application programming interface (API) and server-side HTML5. We also maintain a mobile version of our website: m.chegg.com. Taking advantage of capabilities unique to the mobile platform, we offer some functionality on mobile that is not available on our website, such as textbook barcode scanning for price comparisons, Chegg Flashcards and Chegg Textbook Solutions. 

Open Platform . We have established a proprietary API layer that enables us to extend our product and service offerings to additional, relevant business partners. We have enhanced our technology to enable Chegg student experiences to be consumed on other websites or portals. Internships.com, which we acquired in 2014, began offering its services through this API layer in December 2013. We have established four other use cases and have applied unique technology to each case, with the aim of providing students with access to relevant products and services beyond those that we have developed or provided on our website, including native mobile apps, hub apps, bridge to third-party tools, an externalizing catalog and Platform-as-a-Service. 

Content Conversion Platform . We have developed a proprietary set of technologies that ingests each publisher&#8217;s unique source files and creates HTML5-based documents. Our web-based eTextbook Reader, which is embedded with digital rights management, allows us to provide our content across technology platforms, have a deep understanding of how content is consumed and deliver content securely. 

Real-time Sourcing and Pricing Technologies . We have internally developed proprietary pricing and sourcing systems which consider market price, content selection and availability, as well as other factors, in determining price and origin of content and services we offer to students. 

&#160; 

Infrastructure . Our technology resides at a major cloud-hosting provider divided between two U.S. regions (East Coast/West Coast). We use one region for our test/development/stage/failover environment and the other for our production environment. The architecture is also designed to provide for international expansion if we expand into new international markets. 

Network Security . Our platform includes encryption, antivirus, firewall and patch-management technologies to help protect our systems distributed across cloud-hosting providers and our business offices. 

Internal Management Systems . We rely on third-party technology solutions and products as well as internally developed and proprietary systems, in which we have made substantial investment, to provide rapid, high-quality customer service, internal communication, software development, deployment and maintenance. 

Customers 

In 2015 , approximately 3.1 million individuals paid for our services directed at college students up from approximately 3.0 million &#32;in 2014 &#32;and 2.4 million in 2013 . In 2015 , we entered into agreements to provide enrollment marketing services to over 500 &#32;colleges, including public and private colleges. We have conducted national campaigns with a number of brands attractive to college and high school students. During 2015 , we had advertising contracts with approximately 60 &#32;consumer brands. 

Sales and Marketing 

Students 

We use several major direct marketing channels relevant to students. We deploy search engine optimization (SEO) techniques designed to increase the visibility of Chegg.com content in organic, unpaid search engine result listings. We supplement our SEO efforts through search engine marketing using keyword simulation and bid management tools to analyze and categorize search keywords, optimize bidding, increase impressions and drive conversion. We also use display marketing to drive awareness of our brand and services by running display ads on major online and mobile advertising networks, such as Google Display Network. We integrate our textbook services on affiliates&#8217; websites and work with a large ad network that recruits individual online affiliates in exchange for pre-determined revenue share or commissions. We utilize three types of email marketing campaigns: onboarding programs to drive activation and retention, personalized cross-sell campaigns to deepen engagement and promotional campaigns to drive sales and interests. We use social media to manage organic and paid programs across top websites, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. We also acquire and engage students through content 

generated by student bloggers, syndicated through partners, around key student concerns and interests such as admissions, resume preparation, transition to college and picking a major. 

Through our campus activation programs, we partner with brands to bring entertainment events, such as concerts, trial promotions, on campus ambassadors and product giveaways to students. We also engage students on campus to help them elevate their voice behind timely social issues beyond academics, such as the &#8220;It&#8217;s On Us&#8221; campaign relating to the prevention of on-campus sexual violence. The Chegg for Good program connects students and employees with partners to engage them in causes related to education and the environment. We work with the nonprofit conservation organization American Forest to plant trees around the world and our funding has enabled the planting of more than six million &#32;trees to date. In May 2013, we formed the Chegg Foundation, a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, to engage in charitable and education-related activities. As part of our College Admissions and Scholarship Services marketing efforts, we identify select partner organizations who offer complementary content and services that support students in exploring colleges. We enable these partner organizations to use our college match service through their websites to enable students to request information about colleges that may be of interest to them. 

Colleges and Brands 

We secure contracts with colleges and brands through direct sales by our field sales organization, which sells enrollment marketing services to college admissions offices and brand advertising services to large brand advertisers and advertising agencies seeking to reach and engage college and high school students. This sales organization is comprised of two teams, one focused on colleges and universities, the other on brand marketers and their corresponding advertising agencies. Both teams have field sales people and inside client success managers and share operations and marketing support. 

Student Advocacy 

We are committed to providing a high level of customer service to our students. We trust our students, understand the critical role our products and services have in their education and strive to resolve all problems quickly and thoroughly. Our student advocacy team can be reached directly through phone, email and online chat during business hours. We also proactively monitor social media to identify and solve problems before we are otherwise informed of their existence. We endeavor to respond to students&#8217; concerns within five minutes. 

Competition 

While we do not have any competitors that compete with us across our business in its entirety, we face significant competition in each aspect of our business, and we expect such competition to increase. The actual and potential competition in each of our primary areas of operations is described below. 

Products and Services for Students. &#32;The market for textbooks and supplemental materials is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. We face competition from college bookstores, some of which are operated by Follett and Barnes &#38; Noble Education, online marketplaces such as Amazon.com, eBay.com and Half.com and providers of eTextbooks such as Apple iTunes, CourseSmart, Blackboard and Google, as well as various private textbook rental websites. Many students purchase from multiple textbook providers, are highly price sensitive and can easily shift spending from one provider or format to another. As a consequence, our Required Materials product line, which includes eTextbooks, competes primarily on price and further on selection and functionality and compatibility of our eTextbook Reader across a wide variety of desktop and mobile devices. With respect to our Chegg Services, our competitors include companies that offer students study materials and educational content such as publishers, online instructional systems such as Web Assign and other tutorial services, job boards, and other online career guidance services. 

Enrollment Marketing Services. &#32;With respect to our enrollment marketing services, we compete against traditional methods of student recruitment, including student data providers such as standardized test providers, radio, television and Internet advertising and print mail marketing programs. In this area, we compete primarily on the basis of the number of high-quality connections between prospective students and institutions of higher learning we are able to provide as well as on price. We are able to create these connections by providing prospective students with an easy-to-use platform to input their academic information and aspirations, learn about colleges, locate scholarships and financial aid and facilitate and streamline the application process. 

Brands. &#32;With respect to brands, we compete with online and offline outlets that generate revenues from advertisers and marketers, especially those that target high school and college students. In this area, we seek to partner with brands that have offerings that will interest or delight students and have received very positive comments and feedback from students on these offerings. We provide these brands with preferential access to our audience, which we believe represents a highly engaged portion of the target demographic of our brand partners. 

We believe that we have competitive strengths, some of which are discussed above, that position us favorably in each aspect of our business. However, the education industry is evolving rapidly and is increasingly competitive. A variety of business models are being pursued or may be considered for the provision of print textbooks and eTextbooks, some of which may be more profitable or successful than our business model. 

&#160; 

Intellectual Property 

We use proprietary technology to operate our business and our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our technology and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property. We maintain a policy requiring our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements to control access to our proprietary information. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had nine &#32;patents which will expire in 2032, 31 &#32;patent applications pending in the United States and nine &#32;patents pending internationally. We own six &#32;U.S. registered copyrights and have unregistered copyrights in our eTextbook Reader software, software documentation, marketing materials and website content that we develop. We own the registered U.S. trademarks &#8220;Chegg,&#8221; &#8220;Chegg.com,&#8221; &#8220;Chegg for Good,&#8221; &#8220;CourseRank,&#8221; &#8220;Cramster,&#8221; &#8220;InstaEDU,&#8221; &#8220;Internships.com,&#8221; &#8220;Zinch,&#8221; and &#8220;#1 In Textbook Rentals,&#8221; among others as well as a variety of service marks. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned over 550 &#32;registered domain names. We also have a number of pending trademark applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions and unregistered marks that we use to promote our brand. From time to time we expect to file additional patent, copyright and trademark applications in the United States and abroad. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to a number of laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet and in the education industry, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. The manner in which existing laws and regulations will be applied to the Internet and students in general and how they will relate to our business in particular, are often unclear. For example, we often cannot be certain how existing laws will apply in the e-commerce and online context, including with respect to such topics as privacy, defamation, pricing, credit card fraud, advertising, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, content regulation, financial aid, scholarships, student matriculation and recruitment, quality of products and services and intellectual property ownership and infringement. 

Numerous laws and regulatory schemes have been adopted at the national and state level in the United States, and in some cases internationally, that have a direct impact on our business and operations. For example: 

The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states, regulate unsolicited commercial emails, create criminal penalties for emails containing fraudulent headers and control other abusive online marketing practices. Similarly, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has guidelines that impose responsibilities on us with respect to communications with consumers and impose fines and liability for failure to comply with rules with respect to advertising or marketing practices they may deem misleading or deceptive. 

The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA) restricts telemarketing and the use of automated telephone equipment. The TCPA limits the use of automatic dialing systems, artificial or prerecorded voice messages, SMS text messages and fax machines. It also applies to unsolicited text messages advertising the commercial availability of goods or services. Additionally, a number of states have enacted statutes that address telemarketing. For example, some states, such as California, Illinois and New York, have created do-not-call lists. Other states, such as Oregon and Washington, have enacted &#8220;no rebuttal statutes&#8221; that require the telemarketer to end the call when the consumer indicates that he or she is not interested in the product being sold. Restrictions on telephone marketing, including calls and text messages, are enforced by the FTC, the 

Federal Communications Commission, states and through the availability of statutory damages and class action lawsuits for violations of the TCPA. 

&#160; 

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, and similar laws and regulations adopted by a number of states regulate credit card and gift certificate use fairness, including expiration dates and fees. Our business also requires that we comply with payment card industry data security and other standards. In particular, we are subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks&#8217; costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 

&#32; 

Regulations related to the Program Participation Agreement of the U.S. Department of Education and other similar laws and regulate the recruitment of students to colleges and other institutions of higher learning. 

&#160; 

The Children&#8217;s Online Privacy Protection Act imposes additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In addition, certain states, including Utah and Massachusetts, have laws that impose criminal penalties on the production and distribution of content that is &#8220;harmful to a minor.&#8221; 

The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides relief for claims of circumvention of copyright protected technologies and includes a safe harbor intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for hosting, listing or linking to third-party content that infringes copyrights of others. 

The Communications Decency Act provides that online service providers will not be considered the publisher or speaker of content provided by others, such as individuals who post content on an online service provider&#8217;s website. 

Employees 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 672 &#32;full-time employees. We also engage temporary, seasonal employees and consultants. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Seasonality 

&#160; 

Information about seasonality is set forth in the section &#8220;Seasonality of Our Business&#8221; in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenues 

Information about segment and geographic revenues is set forth in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, &#8220;Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Corporate History 

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2005. We launched our online print textbook rental business in 2007. We hired our current Chief Executive Officer in 2010, who implemented our current business strategy to create the leading connected learning platform for students to help them save time, save money and get smarter. Beginning in 2010, we made a series of strategic acquisitions to expand our Chegg Services, including Cramster in 2010 to add our Chegg Study service, Zinch in 2011 to add our College Admissions and Scholarship Services, InstaEDU in 2014 to add our Tutoring service, and internships.com in 2014 to add to our internship service. We completed our initial public offering (IPO) in November 2013 and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;CHGG.&#8221; Our principal executive offices are located at 3990 Freedom Circle, Santa Clara, California 95054 and our telephone number is (408) 855-5700. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.chegg.com and our Investor Relations website address is investor.chegg.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.chegg.com when such reports are available on the SEC&#8217;s website. We use our www.chegg.com/mediacenter website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor www.chegg.com/mediacenter, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. 

The public may read and copy any materials filed by Chegg with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

