 Item 1. Business 

Cherry Hill Mortgage Investment Corporation is a publicly traded residential real estate finance company focused on acquiring, investing in and managing residential mortgage assets in the United States. We were incorporated in Maryland on October 31, 2012, and we commenced operations on October 9, 2013 following the completion of our initial public offering (&#147;IPO&#148;) and a concurrent private placement. Our common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#147;CHMI.&#148; We are externally managed by Cherry Hill Mortgage Management, LLC, an SEC-registered investment adviser and an affiliate of Freedom Mortgage Corporation, (&#147;Freedom Mortgage&#148;).

We operate so as to qualify to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders an amount at least equal to 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain. We currently expect to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We will be subject to income tax on our taxable income that is not distributed and to an excise tax to the extent that certain percentages of our taxable income are not distributed by specified dates. Our TRS and CHMI Solutions, Inc. (&#147;Solutions&#148;) are subject to regular corporate U.S. federal, state and local income taxes on their taxable income.

Our principal objective is to generate attractive current yields and risk-adjusted total returns for our stockholders over the long term, primarily through dividend distributions and secondarily through capital appreciation. We intend to attain this objective, subject to market conditions and availability and terms of financing, by selectively constructing and actively managing a targeted portfolio of Servicing Related Assets, RMBS, prime mortgage loans and other cashflowing residential mortgage assets.

We operate our business through the following segments: (i) investments in Servicing Related Assets; and (ii) RMBS. For information regarding the segments in which we operate, see &#147;Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Note 3&#8212;Segment Reporting.&#148;

Our Targeted Asset Classes 

Our targeted asset classes currently include:

&#8226; Servicing Related Assets consisting of MSRs and Excess MSRs; 

&#8226; RMBS, including Agency RMBS, residential mortgage pass-through certificates, CMOs (IOs and inverse IOs) and TBAs; and 

&#8226; prime mortgage loans. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy, which may change due to the availability and terms of capital and as market conditions warrant, involves:

&#8226; allocating a substantial portion of our equity capital to the acquisition of Servicing Related Assets through bulk or possibly flow purchases: 

&#8226; the creation of Excess MSRs from MSRs acquired by our mortgage servicing subsidiary, Aurora; 

&#8226; acquiring RMBS on a leveraged basis; 

&#8226; over time, as the market for prime mortgage loans grows, purchasing these assets from originators which may include Freedom Mortgage; and 

&#8226; opportunistically mitigating our prepayment, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, credit risk by using a variety of hedging instruments and where applicable and available, recapture agreements. 

Servicing Related Asset Strategy. We currently expect that the primary method by which we will invest in Excess MSRs will be through the creation of Excess MSRs from MSRs acquired by Aurora. We plan to acquire MSRs from servicers, which may include Freedom Mortgage, primarily on a bulk purchase basis but may also enter into flow arrangements on terms to be negotiated in the future. We also may generate MSRs through the purchase of prime mortgage loans.

Our ability to acquire MSRs is subject to the applicable REIT qualification tests. We have to hold our MSRs through Aurora, which is subject to corporate income tax. In certain cases, we will create Excess MSRs from those MSRs which will be transferred to one of our subsidiaries which function as qualified REIT subsidiaries. The portion of the interest payments represented by the Excess MSRs will not be subject to an entity level tax as long as we comply with the REIT qualification tests. The tax liability of Aurora negatively impacts our returns from the MSRs that it holds. In addition, unlike our investments in Excess MSRs, our investments in MSRs will expose us to default risk and the potential for credit losses.

We do not directly servicing the mortgage loans underlying the MSRs we acquire; rather, we contract with third-party subservicers, including Freedom Mortgage, to handle servicing functions for the loans underlying the MSRs. 

RMBS Strategy . Our RMBS strategy focuses primarily on the acquisition and ownership of Agency RMBS that are whole-pool, residential mortgage pass-through certificates. However, from time to time we invest in CMOs, including IOs and inverse IOs primarily to take advantage of particularly attractive prepayment-related or structural opportunities in the RMBS markets. In addition to investing in specific pools of Agency RMBS, we utilize forward-settling purchases and sales of Agency RMBS where the underlying pools of mortgage loans are &#147;to-be-announced&#148; (&#147;TBA&#148;s). Pursuant to these TBA transactions, we agree to purchase or sell, for future delivery, Agency RMBS with certain principal and interest terms and certain types of underlying collateral, but the particular Agency RMBS to be delivered is not identified until shortly before the TBA settlement date. Our ability to engage in TBA transactions is limited by the gross income and asset tests applicable to REITs.

Our RMBS strategy includes selective investments in non-Agency RMBS, including GSE risk-sharing securities. GSE risk-sharing securities are general obligations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that provide credit protection with respect to defaults on reference pools of loans. We currently expect to expand our participation in that market. However, the extent of our investments in GSE risk-sharing securities is limited by the gross income and asset tests applicable to REITs. We also intend to invest opportunistically in legacy non-Agency RMBS issued during or after 2010. To date, the GSE risk-sharing securities are the only non-Agency RMBS in which we have invested. If and when market conditions permit us to execute our prime mortgage loan acquisition and financing strategy, we expect that we will retain certain bonds collateralized by the prime mortgage loans we securitize. We also may selectively invest across the entire capital structure of non-Agency RMBS that are newly issued by third parties. Non-Agency RMBS are subject to risk of default, among other risks, and could result in greater losses.

Prime Mortgage Loan Strategy . We believe that the market for non-conforming loans including, in particular, prime non-conforming mortgage loans, will grow. While our interest in this asset class is undiminished, we do not currently anticipate that either market conditions or available long-term financing will result in our execution of this strategy in 2016. The prime mortgage loans may be ARMs, hybrid ARMs or FRMs with original terms to maturity of not more than 30 years and will be either fully amortizing or interest-only for up to ten years, and fully amortizing thereafter. We expect that these loans may include both qualified mortgages and, if and when market conditions permit, non-QM loans.

Our strategy is adaptable to changing market environments, subject to compliance with the income and other tests that we must satisfy to maintain our qualification as a REIT and maintain our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a result, our acquisition and management decisions will depend on prevailing market conditions, and our targeted asset classes and strategy may vary over time in response to market conditions.

Our Manager 

We are externally managed by our Manager. We have entered into a management agreement with our Manager, pursuant to which our Manager is responsible for our investment strategies and decisions and our day-to-day operations, subject to the supervision and oversight of our board of directors. Mr. Middleman, our non-executive Chairman of the Board, is the sole member of our Manager. Freedom Mortgage and its employees support our Manager in providing services to us pursuant to the terms of a services agreement that has been entered into by our Manager and Freedom Mortgage. We rely on our Manager and Freedom Mortgage to provide or obtain on our behalf the personnel and services necessary for us to conduct our business. Our executive 

officers and the officers and employees of our Manager are also officers and employees of Freedom Mortgage, and we will compete with Freedom Mortgage for access to these individuals. The executive offices of our Manager are located at 907 Pleasant Valley Ave., Mount Laurel, New Jersey 08054, and the telephone number of our Manager&#146;s executive offices is (877) 870-7005.

Our Manager has established an Investment Committee to monitor our investment policies, portfolio holdings, financing and hedging strategies and compliance with our investment guidelines. The members of our Manager&#146;s Investment Committee are Mr. Lown, our President and Chief Investment Officer; Mr. Levine, our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary; and the Manager&#146;s two portfolio managers and head of risk/operations.

Our Manager is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Advisers Act, and is subject to the regulatory oversight of the Investment Management Division of the SEC.

Our Investment Guidelines; Transactions with Freedom Mortgage 

The investment guidelines for our assets and borrowings are as follows:

&#8226; No investment will be made if it causes us to fail to qualify as a REIT under the Code. 

&#8226; No investment will be made if it causes us to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. 

&#8226; We will not enter into principal transactions or split price executions with Freedom Mortgage or any of its affiliates unless such transaction is otherwise in accordance with our investment guidelines and the management agreement between us and our Manager and the terms of such transaction are at least as favorable to us as to Freedom Mortgage or its affiliate. 

&#8226; Any proposed material investment that is outside our targeted asset classes must be approved by at least a majority of our independent directors. 

Our Manager makes the determinations as to the percentage of assets that are invested in each of our targeted asset classes, consistent with our investment guidelines. Our Manager&#146;s acquisition decisions depend on prevailing market conditions and may change over time in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. In addition, our investment guidelines may be changed from time to time by our board of directors without the approval of our stockholders. Changes to our investment guidelines may include, without limitation, modification or expansion of the types of assets which we may acquire.

Our board of directors receives a report of our investments each quarter in conjunction with its review of our quarterly results. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which is comprised of all of our independent directors, reviews the material terms of any transaction between us and Freedom Mortgage, including the pricing terms, to determine if the terms of those transactions are fair and reasonable. This committee will also be responsible for reviewing and approving any agreements pursuant to which we will acquire prime mortgage loans or MSRs from Freedom Mortgage. We also retain two independent valuation services to assist our management and our independent directors in making pricing determinations on Servicing Related Assets and other assets we purchase from Freedom Mortgage.

Our Financing Strategies and Use of Leverage 

We finance our RMBS with what we believe to be a prudent amount of leverage, which will vary from time to time based upon the particular characteristics of our portfolio, availability of financing and market conditions. Our borrowings for RMBS consist of repurchase transactions under master repurchase agreements. These agreements represent uncommitted financing provided by the counterparties. Our repurchase transactions are collateralized by our RMBS. In a repurchase transaction, we sell an asset to a counterparty at a discounted value, or the loan amount, and simultaneously agree to repurchase the same asset from such counterparty at a price equal to the loan amount plus an interest factor. Despite being legally structured as sales and subsequent repurchases, repurchase transactions are generally accounted for as debt secured by the underlying assets. During the term of a repurchase transaction, we generally receive the income and other payments distributed with respect to the underlying assets and pay interest to the counterparty. While the proceeds of our repurchase financings often will be used to purchase additional RMBS subject to the same master repurchase agreement, our financing 

arrangements are not expected to restrict our ability to use proceeds from these arrangements to support our other liquidity needs. Our master repurchase agreements are documented under the standard form master repurchase agreement published by SIFMA.

We have entered into repurchase agreements with 18 counterparties as of December 31, 2015. From time to time we expect to negotiate and enter into additional master repurchase agreements with other counterparties that could produce opportunities to acquire certain RMBS that may not be available from our existing counterparties. See &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

During the second half of 2015, we also obtained financing for our RMBS from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, or the FHLBI. However, additional funding is no longer available to us. See &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources.&#148;

We have pledged our Excess MSRs from Freedom Mortgage to secure a term loan. See &#147;Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Note 13&#8212;Notes Payable&#148;. We also intend to obtain financing for any MSRs that we may acquire. Execution of our prime mortgage loan strategy is dependent on obtaining financing on attractive terms. Long-term financing for this asset class may not be available on attractive terms or at all due to the unavailability of financing from the FHLBI. We may utilize other types of borrowings in the future, including term facilities, securitization, or other more complex financing structures. Additionally, we may take advantage of available borrowings, if any, under new programs established by the U.S. Government to finance our assets. We also may raise capital by issuing unsecured debt or preferred or common stock.

Interest Rate Hedging 

We opportunistically manage our interest rate risk by using various hedging strategies. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and maintaining our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we use certain derivative financial instruments and other hedging instruments to mitigate interest rate risk we expect to arise from our repurchase agreement financings associated with our RMBS. The interest rate hedging instruments that we currently use include: interest rate swaps, TBAs and swaptions. Our overall hedging strategy takes into account the natural hedging effect of our Servicing Related Assets, which tend to increase in value as interest rates rise. See &#147;Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Note 2&#8212;Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies&#8212;Derivatives and Hedging Activities.&#148;

Policies with Respect to Certain Other Activities 

If our board of directors determines that additional funding is required, we may raise such funds through additional offerings of equity or debt securities, the retention of cash flow and other funds from debt financing, or a combination of these methods. In the event that our board of directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate, at any time. We may, in the future, offer equity or debt securities in exchange for assets. We have not in the past and will not in the future underwrite the securities of other companies. Our board of directors may change any of these policies without prior notice to you or a vote of our stockholders.

Competition 

We compete with other mortgage REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities for investment opportunities in general. See Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors&#8212;We operate in a highly competitive market.&#148;

Employees 

All of our executive officers are employees of Freedom Mortgage. Other than Aurora, which has three employees, we do not have any employees.

Our Tax Status 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. Provided that we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our REIT taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders. REITs are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that they currently distribute at least 90% of their annual REIT taxable income excluding net capital gains. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with such requirements in the future. Failure to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year would cause us to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (and any applicable state and local taxes). Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes on our income. For example, the income generated by our TRSs, including Aurora, is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax.

See &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8212;U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks&#148; for additional tax status information.

Our Exclusion from Regulation as an Investment Company 

We are organized as a holding company and conduct business primarily through our subsidiaries. We believe we have conducted and intend to conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.

Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer&#146;s total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term &#147;investment securities,&#148; among other things, are U.S. Government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exclusion from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.

We believe neither we nor our operating partnership is considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because neither we nor our operating partnership engage primarily or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, through our operating partnership&#146;s wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, we and our operating partnership are primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other interests in real estate.

We rely upon certain exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act including, in the case of our subsidiary, Cherry Hill QRS I, LLC, Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires an entity to invest at least 55% of its assets in &#147;mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate,&#148; which we refer to as &#147;qualifying real estate interests,&#148; and at least 80% of its assets in qualifying real estate interests plus &#147;real estate-related assets.&#148; In satisfying the 55% requirement, the entity may treat securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which it holds all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying real estate interests. We treat the Agency whole-pool pass-through securities in which we have invested as qualifying real estate interests for purposes of the 55% requirement. The Excess MSRs and Agency CMOs we have acquired are not treated as qualifying real estate interests for purposes of the 55% requirement, but are treated as real estate-related assets that qualify for the 80% test. In addition, Cherry Hill QRS I, LLC will treat its investments in Cherry Hill QRS II, LLC and Cherry Hill QRS III, LLC as real estate-related assets because substantially all of the assets held by those subsidiaries will be real estate-related assets.

We monitor our compliance with the 40% Test and the holdings of our subsidiaries to ensure that each of our subsidiaries is in compliance with an applicable exemption or exclusion from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. In the event that we, or our operating partnership, were to acquire assets that could make either entity fall within the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) or Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, we believe that we would still qualify for an exclusion from registration pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C).

Qualification for exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act limits our ability to make certain investments. In addition, complying with the tests for exclusion from registration could restrict the time at which we can acquire and sell assets. To the extent that the SEC or its staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusions, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC or its staff could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the strategies we have chosen.

Website Access to Reports 

We maintain a website at www.chmireit.com . We are providing the address to our website solely for the information of investors. The information on our website is not a part of, nor is it incorporated by reference, into this report. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual proxy statement, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports at www.sec.gov .

Corporate Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 301 Harper Drive, Suite 110, Moorestown, New Jersey, 08057. Our telephone number is (877) 870-7005 and our website is www.chmireit.com . The offices of our Manager are located at 907 Pleasant Valley Ave., Mount Laurel, New Jersey, 08054. Information available on or accessible through our website and Freedom Mortgage&#146;s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on form 10-K.

