 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

Chuy&#8217;s is a fast-growing, full-service restaurant concept offering a distinct menu of authentic, freshly-prepared Mexican and Tex Mex inspired food. We were founded in Austin, Texas in 1982 and, as of December 27, 2015 , we operated 69 &#32;Chuy&#8217;s restaurants across 14 &#32;states, with an average unit volume of $4.7 million &#32;for our 51 &#32;comparable restaurants for the twelve months ended December 27, 2015 . Our restaurants have a common d&#233;cor, but we believe each location is unique in format, offering an &#8220;unchained&#8221; look and feel, as expressed by our motto &#8220;If you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s, you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s!&#8221; We believe our restaurants have an upbeat, funky, eclectic, somewhat irreverent atmosphere while still maintaining a family-friendly environment. We are committed to providing value to our customers through offering generous portions of made-from-scratch, flavorful Mexican and Tex Mex inspired dishes. We believe our employees are a key element of our culture and set the tone for a fun, family-friendly atmosphere with attentive service. We believe the Chuy&#8217;s culture is one of our most valuable assets, and we are committed to preserving and continually investing in our culture and our customers&#8217; restaurant experience. 

Our core menu was established using recipes from family and friends of our founders, and has remained relatively unchanged over the years. We offer the same menu during lunch and dinner, which includes enchiladas, fajitas, tacos, burritos, combination platters and daily specials, complemented by a variety of appetizers, soups and salads. Each of our restaurants also offers a variety of homemade sauces, including the signature Hatch green chile and creamy jalape&#241;o sauces, all of which we make from scratch daily in each restaurant. These sauces are a key element of our offering and provide our customers with an added ability to customize their orders. Our menu offers considerable value to our customers, with our average check of $14.23 &#32;as of December 27, 2015 , which is at the lower end of our casual dining peer group. We also offer a full-service bar in all of our restaurants providing our customers a wide variety of beverage offerings, featuring a selection of specialty cocktails including our signature on-the-rocks margaritas made with fresh, hand-squeezed lime juice and the Texas Martini, a made-to-order, hand-shaken cocktail served with jalape&#241;o-stuffed olives. The bar represents an important aspect of our concept, where customers frequently gather prior to being seated. For the twelve months ended December 27, 2015 , alcoholic beverages constituted 18.2% &#32;of our total restaurant sales. 

We strive to create a unique and memorable customer experience at each of our locations. While the layout in each of our restaurants varies, we maintain distinguishable elements across our locations, including hand-carved, hand-painted wooden fish imported from Mexico, a variety of vibrant Mexican folk art, a &#8220;Nacho Car&#8221; that provides complimentary chips, salsa and chile con queso in the trunk of a classic car, vintage hubcaps hanging from the ceiling, colorful hand-made floor and wall tile and festive metal palm trees. Including patio space, our restaurants range in size from 5,300 &#32;to 12,200 &#32;square feet, with seating for approximately 225 &#32;to 400 &#32;customers. Nearly all of our restaurants feature outdoor patios. We design our restaurants to have flexible seating arrangements that allow us to cater to families and parties of all sizes. Our brand strategy of having an &#8220;unchained&#8221; look and feel allows our restaurants to establish their own identity and provides us with a flexible real estate model. Our site selection process is focused on conversions of existing restaurants as well as new ground-up prototypes in select locations. Our restaurants are open for lunch and dinner seven days a week. We serve approximately 6,400 customers per location per week or 332,000 customers per location per year, on average, by providing high-quality, freshly prepared food at a competitive price point. We believe that many of Chuy&#8217;s frequent customers visit one of our restaurants multiple times per week. 

Our Business Strengths 

Over our 33-year operating history, we have developed and refined the following strengths: 

Fresh, Authentic Mexican and Tex Mex Inspired Cuisine . Our goal is to provide unique, authentic Mexican and Tex Mex inspired food using only the freshest ingredients. We believe we serve authentic Mexican and Tex Mex inspired food based on our recipes, ingredients, cooking techniques and food pairings, which originated from our founders&#8217; friends and families from Mexico, New Mexico and Texas. Every day in each restaurant, we roast and hand pull whole bone-in chicken breasts, hand roll fresh tortillas, squeeze fresh lime juice and prepare fresh guacamole from whole avocados. In addition, we make all nine to eleven of our homemade sauces daily using high-quality ingredients. We believe this commitment to made-from-scratch, freshly prepared cooking results in great tasting, high-quality food, a sense of pride among our restaurant employees and loyalty among our customers. Some of our kitchen managers travel to Hatch, New Mexico every summer to hand-select batches of our green chiles. We believe our commitment to serving high-quality food is also evidenced by serving only Choice quality beef and fresh ingredients. We believe our servers and kitchen staff are highly proficient in executing the core menu and capable of satisfying large quantities of custom orders, as the majority of our orders are customized. 

Considerable Dining Value with Broad Customer Appeal . We are committed to providing value to our customers through offering generous portions of flavorful Mexican and Tex Mex inspired dishes using fresh, high-quality ingredients. We believe our menu 

&#160; 

offers a considerable value proposition to our customers, with our average check of $14.23 &#32;as of December 27, 2015 , which is at the lower end of our casual dining peer group. Through our training programs, we train our employees to make sure that each plate is prepared according to our presentation and recipe standards. 

Although our core demographic is ages 21 to 44 , we believe our restaurants appeal to a broad spectrum of customers and will continue to benefit from trends in consumers&#8217; preferences. We believe consumers are craving bold, spicy and flavorful foods, like those featured in our core offering. Additionally, we believe our brand appeals to a wide demographic and will continue to benefit from the growing demand for fresh, authentic Mexican and Tex Mex inspired food and a fun, festive dining experience. We believe we are also an attractive venue for families and other large parties, and consider many of our restaurants to be destination locations, drawing customers from as far as 30 miles away. We locate our restaurants in high-traffic locations to attract primarily local patrons with limited reliance on business travelers. 

Upbeat Atmosphere Coupled with Irreverent Brand Helps Differentiate Concept . As stated in our motto &#8220;If you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s, you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s!&#8221; each of our restaurants is uniquely designed. However, most share a few common elements&#8212;hand-carved, hand-painted wooden fish, vintage hubcaps hanging from the ceiling, colorful hand-made floor and wall tile, palm trees hand-crafted from scrap metal and a variety of colorful Mexican folk art. Much of this d&#233;cor, including all of the wooden fish and painted tiles, is sourced from vendors in Mexican villages that have partnered with us for decades. Additionally, virtually all restaurants feature a complimentary self-serve &#8220;Nacho Car,&#8221; a hollowed-out, customized classic car trunk filled with fresh chips, salsa, chile con queso and more. 

We believe these signature elements, combined with attentive service from our friendly and energetic employees create an upbeat ambience with a funky, eclectic and somewhat irreverent atmosphere. Our restaurants feature a fun mix of rock and roll rather than traditional Mexican-style music, which we believe helps to provide an energetic customer experience. We also believe that each restaurant reflects the character and history of its individual community. Many of our restaurants have added unique, local elements such as a special wall of photos featuring customers with their friends, families and dogs. We believe this has allowed our customers to develop a strong sense of pride and ownership in their local Chuy&#8217;s. 

Deep Rooted and Inspiring Company Culture . We believe the Chuy&#8217;s culture is one of our most valuable assets, and we are committed to preserving and continually investing in our culture and restaurant experience. Since our founding in 1982, we believe we have developed close personal relationships with our customers, employees and vendors. We emphasize a fun, passionate and authentic culture and support active social responsibility and involvement in local communities. We regularly sponsor a variety of community events including our annual Chuy&#8217;s Children Giving to Children Parade and other local charitable events. We believe our employees and customers share a unique energy and passion for our concept. We believe these characteristics contribute to our favorable annual employee turnover rate at our comparable restaurants and our goal of promoting 40% &#32;of restaurant-level managers from within, as well as our solid base of repeat customers. 

In order to retain our unique culture as we grow, we invest significant time and capital into our training programs. We devote substantial resources to identifying, selecting and training our restaurant-level employees. We typically have ten in-store trainers at each existing location who provide both front- and back-of-the-house training on site as well as two training coordinators that lead new restaurant training. We also have an approximately 20-week training program for all of our restaurant managers, which consists of an average of 11 weeks of restaurant training and eight to nine weeks of &#8220;cultural&#8221; training, in which managers observe our established restaurants&#8217; operations and customer interactions. We believe our focus on cultural training is a core aspect of our company and reinforces our commitment to the Chuy&#8217;s brand identity. In conjunction with our training activities, we hold &#8220;Culture Clubs&#8221; four times or more per year, as a means to fully impart the Chuy&#8217;s story through personal appearances by our founders. 

Flexible Business Model with Industry Leading Unit Economics . We have a long standing track record of consistently producing high average unit volumes relative to competing Mexican concepts, as well as established casual dining restaurants. For the twelve months ended December 27, 2015 , our comparable restaurants generated average unit volumes of $4.7 million , with our highest volume comparable restaurant generating approximately $9.0 million. We have opened and operated restaurants in Texas, the Southeast and the Midwest and achieved attractive rates of return on our invested capital, providing a strong foundation for expansion in both new and existing markets. Under our investment model, our new restaurant openings have historically required a net cash investment of approximately $2.1 million . For our new unit openings, we estimate that each ground-up buildout of our prototype will require a total cash investment of $1.8 million &#32;to $2.4 million &#32;(net of estimated tenant incentives of between zero and $1.0 million ). We estimate that each conversion will require a total cash investment of $2.0 million &#32;to $2.2 million . We currently target a cash-on-cash return beginning in the third operating year of 30.0% , and a sales to investment ratio of 1.9:1 . 

Experienced Management Team . We are led by a management team with significant experience in all aspects of restaurant operations. Our senior management team has an average of approximately 31 years of restaurant experience and our 70 general managers, as of December 27, 2015 , have an average tenure at Chuy&#8217;s of approximately 6 years. In 2007, we hired our CEO and President, Steve Hislop. Mr. Hislop is the former President of O&#8217;Charley&#8217;s Restaurants, where he spent 19 years performing a variety of functions, including serving as Concept President and a member of the board of directors, and helped grow the business 

&#160; 

from 12 restaurants to a multi-concept company with 347 restaurants during his tenure. Since Mr. Hislop&#8217;s arrival in 2007, we have accelerated our growth plan and opened 62 &#32;new restaurants, as of February 29, 2016 , and entered 13 new states. 

Our Business Strategies 

Pursue New Restaurant Development . We plan to identify and pursue major markets for expansion, where we believe we can achieve high unit volumes and attractive unit level returns, while at the same time backfilling in our existing markets to continue to build brand awareness. We believe the broad appeal of the Chuy&#8217;s concept, historical unit economics and flexible real estate strategy enhance the portability of our concept and provide us opportunity for continued expansion. Our new restaurant development will consist of conversions of existing structures and ground up construction of our prototype in select locations. 

We have built a scalable infrastructure and have grown our restaurant base through a challenging economic environment. In 2013 , we opened nine restaurants in eight new markets located in six new states. In 2014 &#32;we opened eleven restaurants with a focus on backfilling existing markets. We opened ten restaurants in 2015 , four in new markets and six backfilling existing markets. Our restaurants opened since 2001 that have been in operations for more than three years have generated average cash-on-cash returns of more than 30.0% in the third year of operations. During 2016 , we have opened one restaurant as of February 29, 2016 , and plan to open a total of eleven &#32;to thirteen &#32;restaurants for the year. Over the next five years, we expect to grow our restaurant base by a compounded annualized growth rate of approximately 20%. &#32; 

Deliver Consistent Comparable Restaurant Sales Through Providing High-Quality Food and Service . We believe we will be able to generate comparable restaurant sales growth by consistently providing an attractive price/value proposition for our customers with excellent service in an upbeat atmosphere. We remain focused on delivering freshly prepared, authentic, high-quality Mexican and Tex Mex inspired cuisine at a considerable value to our customers. Though the core menu will remain unchanged, we will continue to explore potential additions as well as limited time food and drink offerings. Additionally, we will continue to promote our brand and drive traffic through local marketing efforts and charity events such as the Chuy&#8217;s Children Giving to Children Parade, as well as our line of eclectic t-shirts. 

We prioritize customer service in our restaurants, and will continue to invest significantly in ongoing training of our employees. In addition to our new manager training program and at least quarterly &#8220;Culture Clubs,&#8221; 20 to 24 of our trainers are dispatched to open new restaurants and ensure a solid foundation of customer service, food preparation and our cultured environment. We believe these initiatives will help enhance customer satisfaction, minimize wait times and help us serve our customers more efficiently during peak periods, which we believe is particularly important at our restaurants that operate at or near capacity. 

Leverage Our Infrastructure . In preparation for our new restaurant development plan, we have made investments in our infrastructure over the past several years. We believe we now have the corporate and restaurant-level supervisory personnel in place to support our growth plan for the foreseeable future without significant additional investments in infrastructure. Therefore, we believe that as the restaurant base grows, our general and administrative costs will increase at a slower growth rate than our revenue. Additionally, we foresee relatively minimal increases in marketing spend as we enter new markets, as the majority of our marketing is done through non-traditional channels such as community events, charity sponsorships, social media and word-of-mouth from our devoted followers, as well as partnerships with local public relations firms. 

Real Estate 

As of February 29, 2016 , we leased 81 locations, of which 67 are free-standing restaurants and 14 are end-cap or in-line restaurants in Class A locations. Of these locations, 11 are scheduled to open by the end of 2016 . End-cap restaurants are highly visible locations at one of the ends of a retail development whereas in-line restaurants are locations that are between multiple retail locations within a development. Class A locations are upscale properties with easily identifiable locations and convenient access that are surrounded by other upscale properties. Including patio space, our restaurants range in size from approximately 5,300 &#32;to 12,200 &#32;square feet, averaging approximately 8,800 square feet with seating capacity for approximately 225 &#32;to 400 &#32;customers. Since the beginning of 2008 through February 29, 2016 , we have opened 62 &#32;new restaurants. Since our inception in 1982, we have moved two locations and closed three locations and we have not moved or closed a location since 2004. All of our leases provide for base (fixed) rent, plus the majority provide for additional rent based on gross sales (as defined in each lease agreement) in excess of a stipulated amount, multiplied by a stated percentage. A significant percentage of our leases also provide for periodic escalation of minimum annual rent either based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index or a pre-determined schedule. Typically, the initial lease terms of our leases are 10 or 15 years in length with 2 to 4, 5-year extension options. The initial terms of our leases currently expire between 2016 &#32;and 2034 . We are also generally obligated to pay certain real estate taxes, insurances, common area maintenance charges and various other expenses related to the properties. Our corporate headquarters is also leased and is located at 1623 Toomey Road, Austin, Texas 78704. 

&#160; 

Site Selection Process 

We have developed a targeted site acquisition and qualification process incorporating management&#8217;s experience as well as extensive data collection, analysis and interpretation. We are actively developing restaurants in both new and existing markets, and we will continue to expand in selected regions throughout the U.S. Our Director of Real Estate and Development works with a master broker who is responsible for identifying and working with local brokers to conduct preliminary research regarding possible development locations. This master broker also assists in site selection and market research. The preliminary research includes an analysis of traffic patterns, parking, access, demographic characteristics, population density, hotel occupancy, major employers, restaurant sales, level of affluence, consumer attitudes or preferences and current or expected co-retail and restaurant tenants. Our Director of Real and Estate Development and the master broker then present potential sites to our Vice President of Real Estate and Development. If our financial criteria for the site are satisfied, our Vice Presidents of Operations and Chief Executive Officer visit the site and our management negotiates the lease. The key criteria we have for a site is that the population within a three mile radius of the restaurant has a high concentration of our target demographic, which is persons ages 21 to 44 &#32;and persons with median income ranges in excess of $60,000 &#32;per year that dine out frequently. We also prefer locations with high visibility, especially in a new market, and ample surface parking spaces. 

We seek to identify sites that contribute to our &#8220;If you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s, you&#8217;ve seen one Chuy&#8217;s&#8221; vision, meaning no two restaurants are alike. As we do not have standardized restaurant requirements with respect to size, location or layout, we are able to be flexible in our real estate selection process. In line with this strategy, we prefer to identify a combination of conversion sites as well as ground-up prototypes. 

Design 

After identifying a lease site, we commence our restaurant buildout. We strive to create a unique and memorable customer experience at each of our locations. While the layout in each of our restaurants varies, we maintain certain distinguishable elements across virtually all locations &#8211; hand-carved, hand-painted wooden fish imported from Mexico, a variety of vibrant Mexican folk art, a &#8220;Nacho Car&#8221; that provides complimentary chips, salsa and chile con queso in the trunk of a classic car, vintage hubcaps hanging from the ceiling, colorful hand-made floor and wall tile and festive metal palm trees. Nearly all of our restaurants feature outdoor patios. Additionally, our flexible seating arrangements allow us to cater to families and parties of all sizes including larger groups, which we believe is a key differentiator from other casual dining operators. 

Our new restaurants are either ground-up prototypes or conversions. We estimate that each ground-up buildout restaurant will require a total cash investment of $1.8 million &#32;to $2.4 million &#32;(net of estimated tenant incentives of between zero and $1.0 million ). We estimate that each conversion will require a total cash investment of $2.0 million &#32;to $2.2 million . The flexibility of our concepts has enabled us to open restaurants in a wide variety of locations, including high-density residential areas and near shopping malls, lifestyle centers and other high-traffic locations. On average, it takes us approximately 12 to 18 months from identification of the specific site to opening the doors for business. In order to maintain consistency of food and customer service as well as the unique atmosphere at our restaurants, we have set processes and timelines to follow for all restaurant openings. 

The development and construction of our new sites is the responsibility of our real estate and development team. Several project managers are responsible for building the restaurants, and several staff members manage purchasing, budgeting, scheduling and other related administrative functions. 

New Restaurant Development 

We have opened 62 &#32;new locations since the beginning of 2008 through February 29, 2016 &#32;and our management believes we are well-positioned to continue this growth through our new restaurant pipeline, which includes locations currently under development. We maintain a commitment to capitalizing on opportunities and realizing efficiencies in our existing markets while also pursuing attractive locations in new markets. We seek to identify new markets in which we believe there is capacity for us to open multiple restaurants. Over the next five years, we expect to grow our restaurant base by a compounded annualized growth rate of approximately 20%. 

Restaurant Operations 

We currently have sixteen supervisors that report directly to our Vice President of Operations or our three Director of Operations, who in turn each report to our Chief Executive Officer. Each supervisor oversees an average of approximately four to six restaurants. The staffing at our restaurants typically consists of a general manager, a kitchen manager and three to five assistant managers. In addition, each of our restaurants employs approximately 100 hourly employees. 

Sourcing and Supply 

Our procurement team consists of our Director of Culinary Operations and his team. We rely on two regional distributors, Labatt Foodservice ("Labatt") in Texas and Oklahoma and Performance Food Group (&#8220;PFG&#8221;) in the rest of the United States, and various suppliers to provide our beef, cheese, beans, soybean oil, beverages and our groceries. Our distributors deliver supplies to each restaurant two to three times each week. Our distributor relationships with Labatt and PFG have been in place for approximately 

&#160; 

thirteen years and approximately three years, respectively, and the distributors cover 33 and 37 locations, respectively, as of February 29, 2016 . For our chicken products, we rely on two suppliers, one supplier for our Southeast locations and one supplier for Texas and Oklahoma. For our green chiles, we contract to buy through two suppliers located in New Mexico. Each restaurant, through its general manager and kitchen manager, purchases its produce locally. Changes in the price or availability of certain food products could affect the profitability of certain food items, our ability to maintain existing prices and our ability to purchase sufficient amounts of items to satisfy our customers&#8217; demands. 

We are currently under contract with our principal non-alcoholic beverage provider through 2018. Our ability to arrange national distribution of alcoholic beverages is restricted by state law; however, where possible, we negotiate directly with spirit companies and/or regional distributors. We also contract with a third-party provider to source our cooking oil. 

Food Safety 

Providing a safe and clean dining experience for our customers is essential to our mission statement. We have taken steps to control food quality and safety risks, including designing and implementing a training program for our kitchen staff, employees and managers focusing on food safety and quality assurance. In addition, to minimize the risk of food-borne illness, we have implemented a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (&#8220;HACCP&#8221;) system for managing food safety and quality. We also consider food safety and quality assurance when selecting our distributors and suppliers. Our suppliers are inspected by federal, state and local regulators or other reputable, qualified inspection services, which helps ensure their compliance with all federal food safety and quality guidelines. 

Building Our Brand 

We believe our restaurants appeal to a broad spectrum of customers due to our freshly-prepared food offering, attentive service and festive dining experience. Our target demographic is persons ages 21 to 44 &#32;and persons with median income ranges in excess of $60,000 &#32;per year that dine out frequently. We aim to build our brand image and awareness while retaining local neighborhood relationships by increasing the frequency of visits by our current customers and attracting new customers. We primarily foster relationships with local schools, chambers of commerce, businesses and sports teams through hosting tasting events and partnering in and sponsoring local charity events. Our marketing strategy also focuses on generating significant brand awareness at new restaurant openings. 

Local Brand Building 

A key aspect of our local restaurant marketing/branding strategy is developing community relationships with residents, local schools, hotels and chambers of commerce. Our restaurant managers are closely involved in developing and implementing the majority of our local restaurant marketing/branding programs. 

Since our founding in 1982, Chuy&#8217;s success has stemmed from close personal relationships with our customers, employees and vendors. We believe the Chuy&#8217;s culture, which emphasizes fun and authenticity while fostering social responsibility and involvement in local communities, is one of our most valuable assets, and we are committed to preserving and continually investing in it. 

We regularly hold a variety of community events. During the winter holidays, we sponsor the Chuy&#8217;s Children Giving to Children Parade, which collects toys for the Blue Santa program in Austin, Texas. The Blue Santa program gives gifts and holiday meals to families in need in Central Texas. With respect to our locations outside of Texas, we participate in and sponsor several community events across all of our locations, specifically focusing on helping children&#8217;s charities. For example, we participated in the Give Kids the World mAAgic event in Orlando, Florida, the Carnton Plantation Benefit in Cool Spring, Tennessee and the Camp Sunshine Fall Festival in Atlanta, Georgia. To celebrate one of our signature ingredients, the Hatch green chile, we hold an annual Green Chile Festival in all of our restaurants during the August and September harvest, with special menu items featuring Hatch chiles and promotional give-aways. 

New Restaurant Openings 

We have developed a marketing/branding strategy that we use in connection with new restaurant openings to help build local brand recognition and create a &#8220;buzz.&#8221; In new markets, we generally host a pre-opening party called a &#8220;Redfish Rally&#8221; after our emblematic redfish for our social media fans, influencers from the local community and food bloggers experiencing Chuy&#8217;s for the first time. During our &#8220;Redfish Rallies&#8221;, we serve our food and margaritas and give away free Chuy&#8217;s merchandise. In addition to the &#8220;Redfish Rallies&#8221;, we employ a variety of pre-opening marketing initiatives such as issuing press releases, delivering free food to the local community highlighting our defining differences, using social media channels, hosting a dog event to collect pictures for our famous &#8220;dog wall&#8221; and to collect money to benefit a local pet charity and food tasting through training lunches and dinners with local residents, media, community leaders and businesses. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

We use the pre-opening period for our new restaurants as an opportunity to reach out to various media outlets as well as the local community. We retain local public relations partners to assist us with addressing the local market, establishing relationships with local charities, meeting local community leaders, identifying events for Chuy&#8217;s to be a part of and gaining brand recognition. 

E-Marketing &#38; Social Media 

We have increased our use of e-marketing and social media tools, which enables us to reach a significant number of people in a timely and targeted fashion at a fraction of the cost of traditional media. We believe our customers are generally frequent Internet users and will use social media to share dining experiences. We have forty-five Facebook pages, including our corporate page and forty-four local market pages, which we use to engage with customers. We also have a mailing list for each location that allows us to send customers updates about events at their local Chuy&#8217;s. 

Training and Employee Programs 

We devote significant resources to identifying, selecting and training restaurant-level employees, with an approximately 20-week training program for all of our restaurant managers that includes an average of 11 weeks of restaurant training and eight to nine weeks of &#8220;cultural&#8221; training, in which managers observe our established restaurants&#8217; operations and customer interactions. We conduct comprehensive training programs for our management, hourly employees and corporate personnel. Our training program covers leadership, team building, food safety certification, alcohol safety programs, customer service philosophy training, sexual harassment training and other topics. In conjunction with our training activities, we hold &#8220;Culture Clubs&#8221; four times or more per year, as a means to fully impart the Chuy&#8217;s story through personal appearances by our founders. 

Our training process in connection with opening new restaurants has been refined over the course of our experience. Trainers oversee and conduct both service and kitchen training and are on site through the first two weeks of opening and remain on site for two to three additional weeks as needed and depending on unit volumes during the initial weeks. We have one front- and one back-of-the-house training coordinator, and these training coordinators remain on-site to manage the opening for approximately the same period as our other trainers. The lead and other trainers assist in opening new locations and lend support and introduce our standards and culture to the new team. We believe that hiring the best available team members and committing to their training helps keep retention high during the restaurant opening process. 

Management Information Systems 

At all of our restaurants, we use Hospitality Solutions International for our point-of-sale system, which manages our credit card transactions. This software communicates directly with our corporate headquarters and provides headquarters with near real-time information about restaurant level performance and sales. We use an enterprise back office software program, Restaurant Magic, in all of our locations. This program compiles our sales, accounts payable, payroll, inventory and purchasing information and communicates that information to our headquarters to provide visibility on restaurant level operations. 

In 2015, we entered the planning and discovery phase for the implementation of a new point-of-sale system. In 2016, we will begin to pilot a new point-of-sale system at our locations. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of government authorities, which may include alcoholic beverage control, nutritional information disclosure, health, sanitation, environmental, zoning and public safety agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. 

For the twelve months ended December 27, 2015 , 18.2% &#32;of our total restaurant sales were attributable to alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities, for licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be subject to penalties, temporary suspension or revocation for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations impact many aspects of the daily operations of our restaurants, including the minimum ages of patrons and staff members consuming or serving these beverages, respectively; staff member alcoholic beverage training and certification requirements; hours of operation; advertising; wholesale purchasing and inventory control of these beverages; the seating of minors and the servicing of food within our bar areas; special menus and events, such as happy hours; and the storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. State and local authorities in many jurisdictions routinely monitor compliance with alcoholic beverage laws. We are subject to &#8220;dram shop&#8221; statutes in most of the states in which we operate, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. 

Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationships with our staff members, including such matters as minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship or work authorization requirements. We are also subject to the regulations of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement. In addition, some states in which we operate have adopted immigration employment laws which impose additional conditions on employers. Even if we operate our restaurants in strict compliance with the laws, rules and regulations 

&#160; 

of these federal and state agencies, some of our staff members may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements or lack appropriate work authorizations, which could lead to a disruption in our work force. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence, sick leave, and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our staff members who receive gratuities, could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants operations. Further, we are continuing to assess the impact of recently-adopted federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs. The imposition of any requirement that we provide health insurance benefits to staff members that are more extensive than the health insurance benefits we currently provide, or the imposition of additional employer paid employment taxes on income earned by our employees, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. In addition, while we carry employment practices insurance covering a variety of labor-related liability claims, a settlement or judgment against us that is uninsured or in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial position or business. 

The recent Patient Protection and Affordability Act of 2010 (the &#8220;PPACA&#8221;) federal legislation enacted in March 2010 requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the United States to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. 

The Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) has recently finalized regulations to implement the nutritional menu labeling provisions of the PPACA. These final regulations will be effective in December 2016 and will establish a uniform, federal requirement for certain restaurants, including ours, to post certain nutritional information on their menus. We will be required to publish the total number of calories of standard menu items on menus, along with a statement that puts this calorie information in the context of a total daily calorie intake. The PPACA also requires us to provide to consumers, upon request, a written summary of detailed nutritional information for each standard menu item, and to provide a statement on menus about the availability of this information. The PPACA also permits the FDA to require us to make additional nutrient disclosures, such as the disclosure of trans-fat content. For additional information, see &#8220;Risk Factors - Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings, and new information or attitudes regarding diet and health or adverse opinions about the health effects of consuming our menu offerings, could affect consumer preferences and negatively impact our results of operations.&#8221; While we believe our ability to adapt to consumer preferences is a strength of our concept, the effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. 

There is also a potential for increased regulation of food in the United States, such as the recent changes in the HACCP system requirements. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have adopted legislation or implemented regulations which require restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems. Similarly, the United States Congress and the FDA continue to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act (the &#8220;FSMA&#8221;) was signed into law in January 2011 and significantly expanded FDA&#8217;s authority over food safety. Among other requirements, the FSMA granted the FDA with authority to proactively ensure the safety of the entire food system, including through new and additional hazard analysis, food safety planning, increased inspections, and permitting mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from some of the requirements outlined in the FSMA and not directly implicated by other requirements, we anticipate that some of the FSMA provisions and FDA&#8217;s implementation of the requirements may impact our industry. We cannot assure you that we will not have to expend additional time and resources to comply with new food safety requirements either required by the FSMA or future federal food safety regulation or legislation. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise harm our business. 

We are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations concerning the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, such as cleaning solvents, and the operation of restaurants in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. During fiscal 2015 , there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities, and no such expenditures are anticipated. 

Our facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (&#8220;ADA&#8221;) and related federal and state statutes. The ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability with respect to public accommodations and employment. Under the ADA and related federal and state laws, we must make access to our new or significantly remodeled restaurants readily accessible to disabled persons. We must also make reasonable accommodations for the employment of disabled persons. 

We have a significant number of hourly restaurant staff members who receive income from gratuities. We rely on our staff members to accurately disclose the full amount of their tip income and we base our FICA tax reporting on the disclosures provided to us by such tipped employees. 

&#160; 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that having distinctive marks that are registered and readily identifiable is an important factor in identifying our brand and differentiating our brand from our competitors. We currently own registrations from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (&#8220;USPTO&#8221;) for the following trademarks: Chuy&#8217;s; Chuy&#8217;s Mil Pescados Bar (stylized lettering); Chuy&#8217;s Green Chile Festival; Fish with sunglasses (our emblematic fish design); and Chuy&#8217;s Children Giving to Children Parade, which we have the right to use under our Parade Sponsorship agreement. We have also registered our chuys.com domain name. However, as a result of our settlement agreement with an unaffiliated entity, Baja Chuy&#8217;s, we may not use &#8220;Chuy&#8217;s&#8221; in Nevada, California or Arizona. An important part of our intellectual property strategy is the monitoring and enforcement of our rights in markets in which our restaurants currently exist or markets which we intend to enter in the future. We also monitor trademark registers to oppose the applications to register confusingly similar trademarks or to limit the expansion of the scope of goods and services covered by existing similar trademarks. We enforce our rights through a number of methods, including the issuance of cease-and-desist letters or making infringement claims in federal court. 

Restaurant Industry Overview 

According to the National Restaurant Association (the &#8220;NRA&#8221;), U.S. restaurant industry sales in 2014 were $710.3 billion and grew 4.9% to $745.3 billion in 2015, versus U.S. gross domestic product growth of 2.4% in 2015. The $745.3 billion in sales in 2015 is composed of 91.9% commercial restaurant services and 8.1% noncommercial and military restaurant services, which include food service for hospitals, transportation services, schools and other noncommercial outlets. These sales are generated by approximately 14.0 million restaurant industry employees. According to the NRA, restaurant industry sales in the states in which we operate were approximately $223.4 billion in 2015 with average sales growth of approximately 11.6%. 

We believe we are well positioned to benefit from several fundamental trends in the restaurant industry and U.S. population. The NRA estimated that 47% of total U.S. food expenditures were spent at restaurants. Analysts believe that purchases of &#8220;food away from home&#8221; are attributable to demographic, economic and lifestyle trends, including the rise in the number of women in the workplace, an increase in average household income, an aging U.S. population and an increased willingness by consumers to pay for the convenience of meals prepared outside of their homes. Real disposable personal income, a key driver of restaurant industry sales, increased by a projected 3.5% in 2015 and 2.7% 2014, respectively. We cannot provide assurance that we will benefit from the aforementioned demographic trends. 

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Hispanic population is projected to be the fastest growing demographic in the U.S., more than doubling in size from 56.8 million people in 2015 to 119.0 million people by 2060. During this time, the Hispanic population&#8217;s share of the nation&#8217;s total population is projected to increase from approximately 18% to 29%. We believe the projected growth in the Hispanic population will result in an increase in demand for Mexican/Hispanic foods. We cannot provide assurance that we will benefit from these long-term demographic trends, although we believe the Hispanic influence on dining trends will continue to grow in tandem with the population growth. 

Competition 

The restaurant business is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price/value relationships, ambience, service and location, and is affected by many factors, including changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, macroeconomic conditions, demographic trends, weather conditions, the cost and availability of raw materials, labor and energy and government regulations. Our main competitors are full service concepts in the multi-location, casual dining segment in which we compete most directly for real estate locations and customers, including Texas Roadhouse, Cheddar&#8217;s Casual Cafe and BJ&#8217;s Restaurants. We also compete with other providers of Tex Mex and Mexican fare and adjacent segments, including casual and fast casual segments. We believe we compete favorably for consumers on our food quality, price/value and unique ambience and experience of our restaurants. 

Seasonality 

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations with restaurant sales typically higher during the spring and summer months as well as in December. Adverse weather conditions during our most favorable months or periods may affect customer traffic. In addition, at nearly all of our restaurants we have outdoor seating, and the effects of adverse weather may impact the use of these areas and may negatively impact our revenues. 

Employees 

As of December 27, 2015 , we had approximately 7,295 employees, including 74 corporate management and staff personnel, 514 restaurant level managers and 6,707 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. 

&#160; 

Company Information 

Our principal executive office is located at 1623 Toomey Road, Austin, Texas 78704 and our telephone number is 1-888-HEY-CHUY. Our website address is www.chuys.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

The Company&#8217;s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Company&#8217;s website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). In addition, copies of the Company&#8217;s annual report will be made available, free of charge, on written request. 

