 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a Maryland corporation focused on acquiring, owning and operating high-quality (Class A and B) office properties located primarily within our specified target markets in the United States. We have elected, and intend to continue to qualify, to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We currently have 12 primary target markets, which are located in metropolitan areas in the Southern and Western United States. We believe that our target markets possess a number of the following characteristics: favorable economic growth trends; growing populations with above average employment growth forecasts; a large number of government offices; large international, national and regional employers across diversified industries; low-cost centers for business operations; and proximity to large universities and increasing office occupancy rates. We also believe that there is a lower level of participation of large institutional investors in our target markets because they generally have concentrated on gateway markets, which are commonly defined as New York, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago and San Francisco. In addition, we believe that our target markets offer the opportunity for risk-adjusted returns because these markets exhibit positive economic and demographic trends and ownership is often concentrated among local real estate operators that typically do not benefit from the same access to capital as public REITs. We also believe that new construction of office properties has been limited in most of our target markets since 2008 because rental rates in these markets have generally not supported new development. We anticipate identifying additional target markets with the foregoing characteristics in the future. Within our target markets, we primarily focus on acquiring properties with a purchase price generally between $20 million and $50 million and expected cap rates between seven and eight percent as we believe that large institutional investors and our public REIT competitors are generally focused on larger acquisition opportunities. Additionally, we believe that it is challenging for many local buyers in our target markets to raise the debt and equity capital necessary to complete real estate transactions in excess of $20 million. 

Our management team has extensive experience in real estate markets and is made up of James Farrar, our chief executive officer with over 16 years of experience, Gregory Tylee, our president and chief operating officer with over 20 years of experience and Anthony Maretic, our chief financial officer with over 20 years of experience. We use local partners to manage and lease our geographically diversified portfolio so that we can benefit from their market knowledge, efficient operations and existing infrastructure without incurring the overhead associated with creating a real estate operation function in each of our markets. 

At December 31, 2015, we owned fourteen office complexes comprised of 28 office buildings with a total of approximately 3.3 million square feet of net rentable area (&#147;NRA&#148;) in the metropolitan areas of Boise (ID), Denver (CO), Portland (OR), Tampa (FL), Allentown (PA), Dallas (TX) and Orlando (FL). We believe that our properties are high quality assets that provide excellent access to transportation options, are located near affluent neighborhoods, contain extensive amenities and are well maintained. We also believe that our properties have a stable and diverse tenant base, including federal and state governmental agencies and national and regional businesses. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 49.1% of the base rental revenue from our properties was derived from tenants in these markets that are federal or state government agencies or investment grade tenants. Our largest tenant is the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, whose lease at the Cherry Creek property represents approximately 12.2% of the base rental revenue of our portfolio at December 31, 2015 and expires in 2026. Our properties also have a stable, long-term tenancy profile and our occupied and committed leases have staggered expirations and a weighted average remaining lease term to maturity of 5.6 years at December 31, 2015. The majority of our leases are modified gross leases pursuant to which our tenants reimburse us for operating expenses, property taxes and insurance in excess of a base amount. The base rent amount of the majority of our leases includes annualized operating expenses, property taxes and insurance at the time the lease is signed. This structure helps insulate us from increases in certain operating expenses and provides a more predictable cash flow. Our leases typically include rent escalation provisions designed to provide annual growth in our rental income. 

&#160;

For further information on our target markets and the composition of our tenant base, see &#147;Item 2&#151;Properties.&#148; 

As of December 31, 2015, the in place occupancy rate of our properties was 94.8%. 

Internalization of Management 

On November 2, 2015, we and one of our newly-formed subsidiaries (&#147;Buyer Sub&#148;) entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (&#147;Stock Purchase Agreement&#148;) with certain stockholders of City Office Real Estate Management Inc. (formerly our &#147;Advisor&#148;), and two personal holding companies that owned stock of City Office Real Estate Management Inc., pursuant to which Buyer Sub acquired all of the outstanding stock of City Office Real Estate Management Inc. The Internalization (as defined below) closed as of February 1, 2016. Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, on February 1, 2016 we issued 297,321 shares of our common stock to the sellers, which included our three executive officers and Samuel Belzberg, a member of our Board of Directors. In addition, we expect to make cash payments to the sellers of up to $3.5 million pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement if our fully diluted market capitalization reaches the following thresholds prior to December 31, 2016: $1 million upon achieving a $200 million fully diluted market capitalization, an additional $1 million upon achieving a $225 million fully diluted market capitalization and an additional $1.5 million upon achieving a $250 million fully diluted market capitalization (in each case, including in the calculation of fully diluted market capitalization the value of common units held by parties other than us at a value per unit equal to the market price of our common stock). We refer to this transaction collectively as &#147;Internalization.&#148; Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the $1 million payment was triggered by the Company achieving a $200 million fully diluted market capitalization based on its closing stock price on March 1, 2016. The Company expects this cash payment will be made to the sellers in March 2016. 

Effective upon closing of the Internalization, each of James Farrar, our Chief Executive Officer, Gregory Tylee, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Anthony Maretic, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer, entered into an employment agreement with one of our subsidiaries and have become our employees. Additionally, all other current employees of City Office Real Estate Management Inc. as of February 1, 2016 were hired by the Company. 

In connection with the closing of the Internalization, one of our subsidiaries entered into an Administrative Services Agreement (the &#147;Administrative Services Agreement&#148;) with entities that manage real estate investment funds affiliated with Second City Capital II Corporation and Second City Real Estate II Corporation (the &#147;Second City funds&#148;). James Farrar, Gregory Tylee and one of our directors, Samuel Belzberg, are officers of the general partners of the Second City funds and own equity interests in the Second City funds. The Administrative Services Agreement has a three year term. Pursuant to the Administrative Services Agreement, one of our subsidiaries provides various administrative services and support to the entities managing the Second City funds. This subsidiary receives annual payments for these services under the Administrative Services Agreement as follows: first 12 months&#151;$1.5 million, second 12 months&#151;$1.125 million and third 12 months&#151;$0.625 million, for a total of $3.25 million over the three-year term. In addition, following the expiration of the three year term of the Administrative Services Agreement, we expect to make Messrs. Farrar and Tylee available to assist the Second City funds with respect to certain matters. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that the following competitive strengths continue to distinguish us from other owners and operators of office properties in our target markets and will enable us to continue to successfully operate and expand our portfolio. 

Experienced Management Team: Our senior management team, led by James Farrar, our chief executive officer, Gregory Tylee, our president and chief operating officer, and Anthony Maretic, our chief financial officer, has an intimate knowledge and understanding of each of our properties as well as a strong familiarity with the local markets in which the properties are located. Mr. Farrar has over 16 years of experience in real estate acquisitions, management and finance, and has completed approximately $1.4 billion of real estate 

&#160;

acquisitions. Mr. Tylee has over 20 years of experience negotiating and structuring complex real estate transactions and developments and has been involved in real estate transactions with a combined enterprise value of approximately $2.0 billion over the course of his career. Mr. Maretic has acted as chief financial officer and chief operating officer of Earls Restaurants Ltd. and has over 20 years of experience in financing, public company reporting requirements and internal controls. 

Alignment of Interests with Established Local Operators: One component of management&#146;s strategy is to invest in properties in markets where it has relationships with well-established local real estate operators that provide property management services and, in some cases, hold minority interests in the properties that they manage. We believe that this strategy of permitting local real estate operators to invest in our properties helps to align their interests with ours. Consistent with this strategy, thirteen of our fourteen properties are managed by well-established local real estate operators, many of which have invested equity with management in the past and three of which hold a minority interest in our properties, furthering the alignment of their interests with ours. These real estate operators typically manage or lease a large number of properties in the markets where our properties are located providing economies of scale and local market insight. Our strategy of utilizing local real estate operators also eliminates the need for us to incur the overhead costs associated with creating a real estate operation function in each of our markets. We intend to continue this strategy of offering ownership interests and other incentives to local real estate operators, which we believe can enhance the operating performance of our properties and strengthen our relationships with them. 

Properties with Attractive Real Estate Fundamentals: At December 31, 2015, we owned fourteen office complexes comprised of 28 office buildings with a total of approximately 3.3 million square feet of NRA in the metropolitan areas of Boise (ID), Denver (CO), Portland (OR), Tampa (FL), Allentown (PA), Dallas (TX) and Orlando (FL). We believe that our target markets have a number of the following characteristics: favorable economic growth trends; growing populations with above average employment growth forecasts; a large number of governmental offices; large international, national and regional employers across diversified industries; low-cost centers for business operations; and proximity to large universities and increasing office occupancy rates. 

Investment Grade Tenants and Well-Staggered Lease Maturities: As of December 31, 2015, approximately 49.1% of the base rental revenue of our properties was derived from tenants that are federal or state government agencies or investment grade tenants. Five of our top ten tenants are investment grade tenants, representing approximately 31.4% of the base rental revenue of our properties as of December 31, 2015. Our properties also have a stable, long-term tenancy profile and our occupied leases have staggered expirations and a weighted average remaining lease term to maturity of 5.6 years. 

Clearly-Defined Acquisition Strategy: We focus on acquiring office properties in our target markets that we believe possess the attractive economic and demographic characteristics described above. We use our management team&#146;s market-specific knowledge as well as the expertise of local real estate operators and our investment partners to identify acquisition opportunities that we believe offer cash flow stability and long-term value appreciation. Our target markets are attractive, among other reasons, because we believe that ownership is often concentrated among local real estate operators that typically do not benefit from the same access to capital as public REITs and there is a relatively low level of participation of large institutional investors, which can result in attractive pricing levels and risk-adjusted returns. Within our target markets, we focus on acquiring properties with a purchase price generally between $20 million and $50 million and expected cap rates between seven and eight percent, as we believe that large institutional investors and other public REITs generally prefer to target larger assets. Additionally, we believe that many local real estate operators in our target markets have difficulty raising the necessary debt and equity capital to complete acquisitions of more than $20 million. 

Strong Lender Relationships: Our management team has strong lending relationships with various banks, insurance companies and commercial mortgage-backed securities (&#147;CMBS&#148;) platforms. As of December 31, 2015, we have an existing fixed rate debt of $280.7 million plus an existing floating rate debt of $64 million with a weighted average of 5.8 years to maturity and a weighted average interest rate of 4.28%. Our existing 

&#160;

mortgages were provided by insurance companies and CMBS platforms. We also have a $75 million Secured Credit Facility that has an accordion feature that will permit us to borrow up to $150 million, subject to additional collateral availability and lender approval. 

Business Objectives and Growth Strategies 

Our principal business objective is to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns to our investors over the long-term through a combination of dividends and capital appreciation. Specifically, we intend to pursue the following strategies to achieve these objectives: 

Internal Growth 

We seek to manage our properties in a manner to increase their value by improving cash flow over time through our &#147;hands on&#148; approach to real estate management alongside local real estate operators. We focus on maintaining strong relationships with existing tenants, which we believe can help reduce marketing, leasing and tenant improvement costs required for new tenancies and minimize interruptions in rental revenue resulting from periods of vacancy and tenant renovations. Our internal growth strategy includes the following: 

Seeking Contractual Rent Escalations: With respect to our properties as of December 31, 2015, the leases provide for contractual increases in base rental rates per square foot averaging approximately 2.8% per annum over the next three years. These rental escalations are expected to result in predictable increases in rental revenues for us over time. We will continue to seek to include contractual rent escalators in future leases to further facilitate predictable growth in rental income. 

Leasing Currently Vacant Space: As of December 31, 2015, the weighted average in place occupancy rate of our properties was 94.8% and we believe that there is potential to generate additional rental income by leasing space in these properties that is currently unoccupied. We believe that our properties compete for tenants with other landlords that are capital constrained and may not be able to enhance their buildings&#146; appeal through capital investments or offer tenants attractive tenant improvement packages. 

Implementing Improvements and Preventive Maintenance Programs: We seek to operate our portfolio as efficiently as possible. Site visits, property inspections and preventive maintenance programs are performed to ensure that our properties are well maintained so that we will minimize long-term capital expenditures. In addition, we actively pursue cost reduction initiatives, such as eliminating redundant or unnecessary expenses and engaging property tax appeal specialists to lower property tax costs, and make an ongoing effort to increase expense recoveries from tenants on new and renewed leases. We believe that there are opportunities for continued cost reductions at our properties. We also seek to acquire properties within close geographic proximity to one another in order to benefit from economies of scale in the operation of the properties by sharing property management among properties and having greater negotiating leverage with vendors. 

Expanding Our Properties: We seek to enhance our asset base through select expansion and improvement of our properties. We believe that there are several expansion opportunities within our properties, including a potential development site, conversion of certain common areas to leasable space and increasing under reported rentable square footage due to the use of out of date measurement standards. 

External Growth 

Our external growth strategy includes the following: 

Focusing on Acquisitions in Our Specified Target Markets: We seek to expand our portfolio through acquisitions of office properties primarily located in our target markets. We believe that current economic conditions and relatively low levels of competition from institutional buyers have created attractive investment opportunities for the acquisition of office properties in our target markets as compared to gateway markets. We also use our management team&#146;s market-specific knowledge as well as the expertise of our local real estate operators and our investment partners to identify acquisitions that we believe offer cash flow stability and price appreciation. 

&#160;

Our Local Real Estate Operators 

Thirteen of our fourteen properties owned at December 31, 2015 are managed by well-established local third-party real estate operators, four of which have invested equity with management in the past and three of which continue to hold a minority equity interest in the property, furthering the alignment of their interests with ours. These real estate operators typically manage or lease a large number of properties in the submarkets and markets where our properties are located, providing economies of scale and local market insight. 

Competition 

We compete with other REITs (both public and private), public and private real estate companies, private real estate investors and lenders, both domestic and foreign, in acquiring and developing properties. Many of these entities have greater resources than we do or other competitive advantages. We also face competition in leasing or subleasing available properties to prospective tenants. 

We believe that our management&#146;s experience and relationships in, and local knowledge of, the markets in which we operate put us at a competitive advantage when seeking acquisitions. However, many of our competitors have greater resources than we do, or may have a more flexible capital structure when seeking to finance acquisitions. We also face competition in leasing or subleasing available properties to prospective tenants. Some real estate operators may be willing to enter into leases at lower contractual rental rates (particularly if tenants, due to the economy, seek lower rents). However, we believe that our intensive management services are attractive to tenants and serve as a competitive advantage. 

Segment and Geographic Financial Information 

During 2015, we had one reportable segment, our office properties segment. For information about our office property revenues and long-lived assets and other financial information, see &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Results of Operations.&#148; 

Environmental Matters 

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner, operator or tenant of rental property may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases or threats of releases at such property, and may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation, clean up and monitoring costs incurred by such parties in connection with the actual or threatened contamination. 

Such laws typically impose clean up responsibility and liability without regard to fault, or whether or not the owner, operator or tenant knew of or caused the presence of the contamination. The liability under such laws may be joint and several for the full amount of the investigation, clean-up and monitoring costs incurred or to be incurred or actions to be undertaken. These costs may be substantial, and can exceed the fair value of the property. The presence of contamination or the failure to properly remediate contamination on such property may adversely affect the ability of the owner, operator or tenant to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral, and may adversely impact our investment in a property. 

Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building&#146;s management to identify and warn, via signs and labels, of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials in their building. The regulations also set forth employee training, record keeping and due diligence requirements pertaining to asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. Building owners and those exercising control over a building&#146;s management may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits by workers and others exposed to asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials as a result of the regulations. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of asbestos-containing materials. Such laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release to the environment of asbestos-containing materials. 

&#160;

We also may incur liability arising from mold growth in the buildings we own or operate. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants or increase ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants, and others if property damage or personal injury occurs. 

Prior to closing any property acquisition, if appropriate, we obtain such environmental assessments as may be prudent in order to attempt to identify potential environmental concerns at such properties. These assessments are carried out in accordance with an appropriate level of due diligence and generally may include a physical site inspection, a review of relevant federal, state and local environmental and health agency database records, one or more interviews with appropriate site-related personnel, review of the property&#146;s chain of title and review of historic aerial photographs. We may also conduct limited subsurface investigations and test for substances of concern where the results of the first phase of the environmental assessments or other information, indicates possible contamination or where our consultants recommend such procedures. 

We believe that our properties are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances and other environmental matters. We have not been notified by any governmental authority of any material non-compliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental matter in connection with any of our properties. 

Availability of Reports Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 

A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), are available, free of charge, on our Internet website (www.cityofficereit.com). All of these reports are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). Our Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website at www.cityofficereit.com, and are available in print to any stockholder upon written request to City Office REIT, Inc., c/o Investor Relations, Suite 2010, 1075 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6E 3C9. Our telephone number is +1 (604) 806-3366. The information on or accessible through our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filing we make with the SEC. 

&#160;

