 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. BACKGROUND 

The Company is a one-bank holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on February 16, 1982. The Company is the sole shareholder of The Citizens Bank of Philadelphia (&#147;Bank&#148;). The Company does not have any subsidiaries other than the Bank. 

The Bank was opened on February 8, 1908 as The First National Bank of Philadelphia. In 1917, the Bank surrendered its national charter and obtained a state charter, at which time the name of the Bank was changed to The Citizens Bank of Philadelphia, Mississippi. At December 31, 2015, the Bank was the largest bank headquartered in Neshoba County, Mississippi, with total assets of $973.5 million and total deposits of $753.4 million. For more information regarding the assets, revenue and profits of the Company, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company contained in Item 8, &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#148; 

The principal executive offices of both the Company and the Bank are located at 521 Main Street, Philadelphia, Mississippi 39350, and the main telephone number is (601) 656-4692. All references hereinafter to the activities or operations of the Company reflect the Company&#146;s activities or operations through the Bank. 

OPERATIONS 

Through its ownership of the Bank, the Company engages in a wide range of commercial and personal banking activities, including accepting demand deposits, savings and time deposit accounts, making secured and unsecured loans, issuing letters of credit, originating mortgage loans, and providing personal and corporate trust services. The Company also provides certain services that are closely related to commercial banking such as credit life insurance and title insurance for its loan customers. 

Revenues from the Company&#146;s lending activities constitute the largest component of the Company&#146;s operating revenues. Revenue from loan interest and fees made up 51.0% of gross revenues in 2015, 50.8% in 2014 and 51.6% in 2013. Loan demand has improved but increased competition that results in lower loan yields along with an increased investment portfolio have caused this percentage to remain relatively flat over the last three years. Such lending activities include commercial, real estate, installment (direct and indirect) and credit card loans. The Company&#146;s primary lending area is East Central and South Mississippi, specifically Neshoba, Newton, Leake, Lamar, Forrest, Scott, Attala, Lauderdale, Oktibbeha, Rankin, Harrison, Jackson, Winston and Kemper counties and contiguous counties. In 2008, the Company entered the southern Mississippi market with the opening of a branch office in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, which is located in Lamar County. In 2009, the Company opened a Loan Production Office in Biloxi, Mississippi to serve the Mississippi Gulf Coast and in April 2014 converted this office to a full service branch and at the same time opened another branch in Biloxi. In 2011, the Company opened a branch in Flowood, Mississippi. On a very limited basis, the Company extends out-of-area credit only to borrowers who are considered to be low risk, as defined within the Bank&#146;s lending policy. The Company is not dependent upon any single customer or small group of customers, and it has no foreign operations. 

&#160;

The Company&#146;s market area is mainly rural, with Hattiesburg, population 50,233, Biloxi, population 50,644, and Meridian, population 38,314, being the largest markets. Agriculture and some light industry comprise a significant portion of the economy of this area. The largest employer in the Company&#146;s service area is the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians. Its schools, manufacturing plants and main source of income, The Pearl River Resort (the &#147;Resort&#148;), generate a significant number of jobs in the area. The Resort and its related services employ approximately 2,400 people within the Company&#146;s market. 

The Company has historically made, and intends to continue to make, most types of real estate loans, including, but not limited to, single and multi-family housing, farm, residential and commercial construction, and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2015, approximately 79.3% of the Company&#146;s loan portfolio has been attributed to real estate lending. Another 14.5% of the Company&#146;s loan portfolio is comprised of commercial, industrial and agricultural production loans. Consumer loans make up the remaining 6.2% of the total loan portfolio. 

The Company&#146;s loan personnel have the authority to extend credit under guidelines established and approved by the Company&#146;s Board of Directors. Any aggregate credit that exceeds the authority of the loan officer is forwarded to the Board&#146;s loan committee for approval. The loan committee is composed of certain independent Company directors. All aggregate credits that exceed the loan committee&#146;s lending authority are presented to the Board of Directors for ultimate approval or denial. The loan committee not only acts as an approval body to ensure consistent application of the Company&#146;s loan policies, but also provides valuable insight through the communication and pooling of knowledge, judgment and experience of its members. 

All loans in the Company&#146;s portfolio are subject to risk based on the state of both the local and national economy. The local economy has weathered the recent downturn in the national economy with a minimum effect on employment and production. It is still uncertain how the weakness in the local, state and national economy will affect the Company in the future. 

Through such products as its VISA Checkcard program, the 24 Hour Phone Teller and the Bank&#146;s Internet site (http://www.thecitizensbankphila.com), the Company&#146;s customers have easy and convenient access to their funds and account balances 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Additionally, the Internet site enables Bank customers to review their accounts in detail, make transfers between their accounts and pay bills from anywhere in the world. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 

Greg L. McKee, 54, has been employed by the Bank since 1984. He was named President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank in January 2003. He has served as President of the Bank since January 2002 and served as Chief Operating Officer of the Bank from January 2002 until December 31, 2002. He has also been a member of the Board of Directors of both the Company and the Bank since 2001. Mr. McKee served as Executive Vice-President of the Bank from 2001 to 2002, Senior Vice-President of the Bank from 2000 to 2001, Vice-President of the Bank from 1992 to 2000, Assistant Vice-President of the Bank from 1989 to 1992, and Assistant Cashier of the Bank from 1984 to 1989. 

Robert T. Smith, 64, has been employed by the Bank since 1986. He has served as Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bank since January 2001. Prior to January 2001, 

&#160;

Mr. Smith held the title of Vice-President and Controller of the Bank from 1987 until 2001 and Assistant Vice-President of the Bank from 1986 to 1987. In addition to his position with the Bank, Mr. Smith has served as Treasurer of the Company since February 1996 and Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer since January 2001. 

EMPLOYEES 

The Company has no employees other than three Bank officers who provide services to the Company. These officers receive no compensation from the Company for their services to it as their compensation is paid by the Bank. At December 31, 2015, the Bank employed 236 full-time employees and 26 part-time employees. The Bank is not a party to any collective bargaining agreements, and employee relations are considered to be good. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

The Bank is chartered under the banking laws of the State of Mississippi and is subject to the supervision of, and is regularly examined by, the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;). The Company is a registered bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#147;BHC Act&#148;), and is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board (&#147;FRB&#148;). Certain legislation and regulations affecting the businesses of the Company and the Bank are discussed below. 

General . 

The FRB requires the Company to maintain certain levels of capital and to file an annual report with the FRB. The FRB also has the authority to conduct examinations of the Company and the Bank and to take enforcement action against any bank holding company that engages in any unsafe or unsound practice or that violates certain laws, regulations, or conditions imposed in writing by the FRB. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended, (&#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) affects financial institutions in numerous ways, including the creation of a new Financial Stability Oversight Council responsible for monitoring and managing systemic risk, granting additional authority to the FRB to regulate certain types of nonbank financial companies, granting new authority to the FDIC as liquidator and receiver, abolishing the Office of Thrift Supervision, changing the manner in which insurance deposit assessments are made, requiring the regulators to modify capital standards, establishing a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to regulate compliance with consumer laws and regulations, cap interchange fees which banks charge merchants for debit card transactions, and imposing new requirements on mortgage lenders. There are many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act mandating regulators to adopt new regulations and conduct studies upon which future regulation may be based. It is anticipated that these new regulations will increase the Bank&#146;s compliance costs over time, and could have unforeseen consequences as the new legislation is implemented over time. 

&#160;

Capital Standards . 

The FRB, FDIC and other federal banking agencies have established risk-based capital adequacy guidelines. These guidelines are intended to provide a measure of a bank&#146;s capital adequacy that reflects the degree of risk associated with a bank&#146;s operations. 

A banking organization&#146;s risk-based capital ratios are obtained by dividing its qualifying capital by its total risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items. Since December 31, 1992, the federal banking agencies have required a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items of 8%, and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items of 4%. At December 31, 2015, the Company&#146;s ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items was 17.54%, and its ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items was 16.37%. 

In addition to the risk-based guidelines, federal banking regulators require banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to total assets, referred to as the leverage ratio. For a banking organization rated in the highest of the five categories used by regulators to rate banking organizations, the minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets is 4%. The Company&#146;s leverage ratio at December 31, 2015 was 9.26%. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;) and the FDIC to adopt regulations imposing a continuing &#147;floor&#148; on the risk based capital requirements. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released a final framework for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as &#147;Basel III&#148;. In July 2013, each of the U.S. federal banking agencies adopted final rules relevant to us: (1) the Basel III regulatory capital reforms; and (2) the &#147;standardized approach of Basel II for non-core banks and bank holding companies, such as the Bank and the Company. The capital framework under Basel III will replace the existing regulatory capital rules for all banks, savings associations and U.S. bank holding companies with greater than $500 million in total assets, and all savings and loan holding companies. 

Beginning January 1, 2015 the Bank began to comply with the Basel III rules, although the rules will not be fully phased-in until January 1, 2019. Among other things, the final Basel III rules will impact regulatory capital ratios of banking organizations in the following manner, when fully phased in: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Create a new requirement to maintain a ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of not less than 4.5%; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increase the minimum leverage ratio to 4% for all banking organizations (currently 3% for certain banking organizations); 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increase the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% to 6%; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintain the minimum total risk-based capital ratio at 8%. 

In addition, the Basel III rules, when fully phased-in, will subject a banking organization to certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the organization did not maintain a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount greater than 2.5% of its total risk-weighted assets. The effect of the capital conservation buffer, when fully phased-in, will be to increase the minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio to 7%, the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio to 8.5% and the minimum total risk-based capital ratio to 10.5% for banking organizations seeking to avoid the limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

&#160;

The Basel III rules also changed the capital categories for insured depository institutions for purposes of prompt corrective action. Under the rules, to be well capitalized, an insured depository institution must maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%, and a leverage capital ratio of at least 5%. In addition, the Basel III rules established more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital and imposed certain deductions from and adjustments to the measure of common equity Tier 1 capital. 

Management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company and the Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under Basel III and the banking agencies&#146; proposals on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective. Management will continue to monitor these and any future proposals submitted by the Company&#146;s and Bank&#146;s regulators. 

Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms . 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, as amended (&#147;FDICIA&#148;) requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured depository institutions, including, but not limited to, those that fall below one or more of the prescribed minimum capital ratios. The law requires each federal banking agency to promulgate regulations defining the following five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. The Company and the Bank are classified as well capitalized under the guidelines promulgated by the FRB and the FDIC. 

Safety and Soundness Standards . 

FDICIA also implemented certain specific restrictions on transactions and required the regulators to adopt overall safety and soundness standards for depository institutions related to internal control, loan underwriting and documentation, and asset growth. Among other things, FDICIA limits the interest rates paid on deposits by undercapitalized institutions, the use of brokered deposits and the aggregate extension of credit by a depository institution to an executive officer, director, principal shareholder or related interest, and reduces deposit insurance coverage for deposits offered by undercapitalized institutions and for deposits by certain employee benefits accounts. 

Restrictions on Dividends and Other Distributions . 

The Company&#146;s ability to pay dividends depends in large part on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company. The power of the board of directors of an insured depository institution to declare a cash dividend or other distribution with respect to capital is subject to federal statutory and regulatory restrictions, which limit the amount available for such distribution depending upon the earnings, financial condition and cash needs of the institution, as well as general business conditions. 

&#160;

The approval of the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance is also required prior to the Bank paying dividends. The department&#146;s regulations limit dividends to earned surplus in excess of three times the Bank&#146;s capital stock. At December 31, 2015, the maximum amount available for transfer from the Bank to the Company in the form of a dividend was approximately $81.5 million, or 97.3% of the Bank&#146;s consolidated net assets. 

FRB regulations limit the amount the Bank may loan to the Company unless those loans are collateralized by specific obligations. At December 31, 2015, the maximum amount available for transfer from the Bank in the form of loans was $8.4 million, or 10% of the Bank&#146;s consolidated net assets. The Bank does not have any outstanding loans with the Company. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments . 

The FDIC maintains the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#147;DIF&#148;) by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium. The amount each institution is assessed is based upon statutory factors that include the balance of insured deposits as well as the degree of risk the institution poses to the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently raised the FDIC insurance coverage limit per depositor to $250,000. In 2009, the FDIC increased the amount assessed from financial institutions by increasing its risk-based deposit insurance assessment scale. The assessment scale for 2010 ranged from seven basis points of assessable deposits for the strongest institutions to 77.5 basis points for the weakest. In 2009, the FDIC approved a rule that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. An insured institution&#146;s risk-based deposit insurance assessments was calculated on a quarterly basis and was paid from the amount the institution prepaid until June 30, 2013, at which point the remaining funds were returned to the insured institution. Pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC adopted a new assessment system in April 2011, which created a new rate grid. Under the new grid, base rates will range from 5 to 35 basis points annually, and fully adjusted rates will range from 2.5 to 45 basis points annually. 

Other BHC Act Provisions. 

The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the FRB before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank that is not already majority-owned by such bank holding company. The BHC Act provides that the FRB shall not approve any acquisition, merger or consolidation that would result in a monopoly or that would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking. The FRB also will not approve any other transactions in which the effect might be to substantially lessen competition or in any manner be a restraint on trade, unless the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

The BHC Act also prohibits a bank holding company, with certain exceptions, from engaging in or from acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in non-banking activities. The principal exception to this rule is for engaging in or acquiring shares of a company whose activities are found by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making such determinations, the FRB is required to consider whether the performance of such activities by a bank holding company 

&#160;

or its subsidiaries can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such as greater convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency of resources that outweigh the risks of possible adverse effects such as decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. 

The BHC Act prohibits the acquisition by a bank holding company of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of a bank located outside the state in which the operations of its banking subsidiaries are principally conducted, unless such an acquisition is specifically authorized by statute of the state in which the bank to be acquired is located. 

The Company and the Bank are subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act on any extensions of credit to the Company or the Bank, on investments in the stock or other securities of the Company or the Bank, and on taking such stock or other securities as collateral for loans of any borrower. 

The BHC Act was amended in 2000 by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 to permit &#147;financial holding companies&#148; to engage in a broader range of nonbanking financial activities, such as underwriting and selling insurance, providing financial or investment advice, and dealing and making markets in securities and merchant banking. In order to qualify as a financial holding company, the Company must declare to the FRB its intention to become a financial holding company and certify that the Bank meets the capitalization management requirements and that it has at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1997, as amended (the &#147;CRA&#148;). To date, we have not elected to become a financial holding company. 

Interstate Banking and Branching . 

Prior to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, banks were permitted under federal law to merge with other banks without any territorial restrictions, subject to meeting certain conditions. However, banks were subject to state laws regarding the ability to establish branch offices in different states. The Dodd-Frank Act effectively eliminated these restrictions, so that banks may establish branch offices throughout the United States without territorial restrictions. 

Community Reinvestment Act . 

The CRA requires the assessment by the appropriate regulatory authority of a financial institution&#146;s record in meeting the credit needs of the local community, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulations promulgated under CRA emphasize an assessment of actual performance in meeting local credit needs, rather than of the procedures followed by a bank to evaluate compliance with the CRA. CRA compliance is also a factor in evaluations of proposed mergers, acquisitions and applications to open new branches or facilities. Overall CRA compliance is rated across a four-point scale from &#147;outstanding&#148; to &#147;substantial noncompliance.&#148; Different evaluation methods are used depending on the asset size of the bank. 

The FDIC examined the Bank on March 3, 2014 for its performance under the CRA. The Bank was rated Satisfactory during this examination. No discriminatory practices or illegal discouragement of applications were found. 

&#160;

Anti-Money Laundering Efforts . 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (&#147;USA PATRIOT Act&#148;) requires financial institutions to establish anti-money laundering programs and due diligence policies, procedures and controls with respect to bank accounts involving foreign individuals and certain foreign banks, and to avoid establishing and maintaining accounts in the United States for, or on the behalf of, foreign banks that do not have a physical presence in any country. We believe that we are in compliance with the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act. 

Corporate Governance . 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (&#147;Sarbanes Act&#148;) requires publicly traded companies, such as the Company, to adhere to several directives designed to prevent corporate misconduct. As a result, additional duties have been placed on officers, directors, auditors and attorneys of public companies. The Sarbanes Act requires certifications regarding financial statement accuracy and internal control adequacy by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer to accompany periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The Sarbanes Act also accelerates insider reporting obligations under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, restricts certain executive officer and director transactions, imposes new obligations on corporate audit committees and provides for enhanced review by the SEC. 

The Dodd-Frank Act mandated a number of new requirements with respect to corporate governance. The legislation requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation at least every three years and on so-called &#147;golden parachute&#148; payments in connection with approvals of mergers and acquisitions. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company&#146;s proxy materials. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal banking regulators to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to executives of depository institutions and their holding companies with assets in excess of $1.0 billion, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the SEC authority to prohibit broker discretionary voting on elections of directors and executive compensation matters. 

Impact of Monetary Policies . 

Banking is a business that substantially depends on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest paid by a bank on its deposits and other borrowings and the interest rate earned by banks on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets comprises the major source of banks&#146; earnings. Thus, the earnings and growth of banks are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies including the FRB. The nature and timing of any future changes in such policies and their impact on the Company cannot be predicted. 

COMPETITION 

The banking business is highly competitive. The Company&#146;s market consists principally of Neshoba, Newton, Leake, Lamar, Forrest, Scott, Attala, Lauderdale, Oktibbeha, Rankin, Harrison, Jackson, Winston and Kemper and contiguous counties in Mississippi. In 2008, the Company 

&#160;

entered the southern Mississippi market with the opening of a branch office in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, which is located in Lamar County, and in 2009, opened a loan production office in Biloxi, Mississippi, which in April 2014, was converted into a full service branch. In 2011, the Company opened a branch in Flowood, Mississippi. In 2014, the Company established an additional branch in Biloxi to better serve the Gulf Coast. The Company competes with local, regional and national financial institutions in these counties and in surrounding counties in Mississippi in obtaining deposits, lending activities and providing many types of financial services. The Company also competes with larger regional banks for the business of companies located in the Company&#146;s market area. 

All financial institutions, including the Company, compete for customers&#146; deposits. The Company also competes with savings and loan associations, credit unions, production credit associations, federal land banks, finance companies, personal loan companies, money market funds and other non-depository financial intermediaries. Many of these financial institutions have resources significantly greater than those of the Company. In addition, new financial intermediaries, such as money-market mutual funds and large retailers, are not subject to the same regulations and laws that govern the operation of traditional depository institutions. The Company believes it benefits from a good reputation in the community and from the significant length of time it has provided needed banking services to its customers. Also, as a locally owned financial institution, the Company believes it is able to respond to the needs of the community with services tailored to the particular demands of its customers. Furthermore, as a local institution, the Company believes it can provide such services faster than a larger institution not based in the Company&#146;s market area. 

Recent changes in federal and state law have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, increased competition. The reductions in legal barriers to the acquisition of banks by out-of-state bank holding companies resulting from implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and other recent changes in banking laws and regulations are expected to continue to further stimulate competition in the markets in which the Company operates, although it is not possible to predict the extent or timing of such increased competition. 

Currently, there are approximately thirty different financial institutions in the Company&#146;s market competing for the same customer base. According to the FDIC&#146;s Summary of Deposits that is collected as of June 30 each year, the Company&#146;s market share in its market area was approximately 5.89% at June 30, 2015. The Company competes in its market for loan and deposit products, along with many of the other services required by today&#146;s banking customer, on the basis of availability, quality and pricing. The Company believes it is able to compete favorably in its markets, in terms of both the rates the Company offers and the level of service that the Company provides to its customers. 

AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION 

The Company&#146;s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto, along with other information about the Company, are available, free of charge, on our website, http://www.citizensholdingcompany.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated into this report. Upon request, the Company will provide to any record holder or beneficial holder of its shares a copy of such reports without charge. Requests should be made to Robert T. Smith, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, Citizens Holding Company, 521 Main Street, Philadelphia, Mississippi 39350. 

&#160;

