 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

We are the leading provider of natural gas as an alternative fuel for vehicle fleets in the United States and Canada, based on the number of stations operated and the amount of gasoline gallon equivalents ("GGEs") of CNG, LNG and RNG delivered. 

Our principal business is supplying CNG, LNG and RNG (RNG can be delivered in the form of CNG or LNG) for light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles and providing operation, repair and maintenance ("O&#38;M") services for vehicle fleet customer stations. As a comprehensive solution provider, we also design, build, operate, service, repair and maintain fueling stations, manufacture, sell and service non-lubricated natural gas fueling compressors and other equipment used in CNG stations and LNG stations, offer assessment, design and modification solutions to provide operators with code-compliant service and maintenance facilities for natural gas vehicle fleets, transport and sell CNG to large industrial and institutional energy users who do not have direct access to natural gas pipelines, process and sell RNG, sell tradable credits we generate by selling natural gas and RNG as a vehicle fuel, including LCFS Credits and RIN Credits, and help our customers acquire and finance natural gas vehicles and obtain federal, state and local tax credits grants and incentives. 

We target customers in a variety of markets, including heavy-duty trucking, airports, refuse, public transit, industrial and institutional energy users and government fleets, which has resulted in a broad customer base with, we believe, limited concentration risk. We seek to retain these customers by offering our robust fueling station network and superior service levels. As of December 31, 2015 , we serve approximately 986 &#32;fleet customers operating approximately 44,152 &#32;natural gas vehicles, and we own, operate or supply over 570 &#32;natural gas fueling stations in 42 &#32;states in the U.S. and in British Columbia and Ontario in Canada. 

Market for Natural Gas as an Alternative Fuel for Vehicles 

As of December 2015, Natural Gas Vehicles for America ("NGV America") estimates that there were approximately 1,750 natural gas fueling stations in the United States and about 153,000 natural gas vehicles on American roads, including 39,500 heavy-duty vehicles (e.g. tractors, refuse trucks and buses), 25,800 medium-duty vehicles (e.g. delivery vans and shuttles) and 87,000 light-duty vehicles (e.g. passenger cars, small utility vehicles, trucks and vans). 

We believe that natural gas is an attractive alternative to gasoline and diesel for use as a vehicle fuel in the United States because it is plentiful, domestically produced, cleaner and typically cheaper than gasoline or diesel. Historically, oil, gasoline, and diesel prices have been highly volatile, while natural gas prices have generally been stable and lower than the cost of oil, gasoline and diesel on an energy equivalent basis. We also expect increasingly stringent federal, state and local air quality regulations, expanding initiatives by fleet operators to lower greenhouse gas emissions and increase fuel diversity and additional regulations mandating low carbon fuels, all of which would support increased market adoption of natural gas as an alternative to gasoline and diesel as a vehicle fuel. We believe these factors will support the development of an increased opportunity to market natural gas as a vehicle fuel in the United States. 

Benefits of Natural Gas Fuel 

Domestic and Plentiful Supply. Technological advances in natural gas drilling and production, including the widespread deployment of horizontal drilling techniques and the use of hydraulic fracturing, have unlocked vast natural gas reserves. The U.S. is now the number one producer of natural gas in the world, with proven, abundant and growing reserves of natural gas. 

Less Expensive. Due to the abundance of natural gas, the cost of natural gas in the U.S. is less than the cost of crude oil, on an energy equivalent basis. Based on projections from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, we believe that natural gas will remain cheaper than gasoline and diesel for the foreseeable future. In addition, because the price of the natural gas commodity makes up a smaller portion of the cost of a GGE of CNG or LNG relative to the commodity portion of the cost of a GGE of diesel or gasoline, the price of a GGE of CNG or LNG is less sensitive to increases in the underlying commodity cost. 

Cleaner. Natural gas contains less carbon than any other fossil fuel and thus produces fewer carbon dioxide emissions when burned. The California Air Resources Board ("CARB") has concluded that a natural gas vehicle emits fewer greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions than a comparable gasoline or diesel fueled vehicle on a well-to-wheel basis. Additionally, a study from Argonne National Laboratory, a research laboratory operated by the University of Chicago for the U.S. Department of Energy, indicates that natural gas vehicles produce at least 13% to 21% fewer GHG emissions than comparable gasoline and diesel fueled vehicles. For natural gas vehicles that run on Redeem, it is estimated, based on CARB data that the GHG emissions reduction ranges from 50% to 125%, depending on the source of biogas. RNG is produced from waste streams such as landfills, animal waste digesters and waste water treatment plants. RNG production plants are connected to natural gas 

pipelines, which allow RNG to be transported to vehicle fueling stations, where it can be compressed and dispensed as CNG, and to LNG liquefaction facilities, where it is converted to LNG. We sell RNG through some of our natural gas fueling infrastructure under the brand name Redeem&#8482;. We believe Redeem&#8482; is the first commercially available RNG vehicle fuel made from organic waste 

Safer. As reported by NGV America, CNG and LNG are relatively safer than gasoline and diesel because they dissipate into the air when spilled or in the event of a vehicle accident. When released, CNG and LNG are also less combustible than gasoline or diesel because they ignite only at relatively high temperatures. The fuel tanks and systems used in natural gas vehicles are subjected to a number of federally required safety tests, such as fire, environmental hazard, burst pressures, and crash testing, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Additionally, CNG and LNG are stored in above ground tanks and therefore cannot contaminate soil or groundwater. Further, worldwide over 17 million vehicles fuel safely with natural gas. 

Natural Gas Vehicles 

Natural gas vehicles use internal combustion engines similar to those used in gasoline or diesel powered vehicles. A natural gas vehicle uses sealed storage cylinders to hold CNG or LNG, specially designed fuel lines to deliver natural gas to the engine, and an engine tuned to run on natural gas. Natural gas fuels have higher octane content than gasoline or diesel, and the acceleration and other performance characteristics of natural gas vehicles are similar to those of gasoline or diesel powered vehicles of the same weight and engine class. Natural gas vehicles, whether they run on CNG or LNG, are refueled using a hose and nozzle that makes an airtight seal with the vehicle's gas tank. For heavy-duty vehicles, spark ignited natural gas vehicles generally operate more quietly than diesel powered vehicles. Natural gas vehicles typically cost more than gasoline or diesel powered vehicles, primarily due to the higher cost of the storage systems that hold the CNG or LNG. 

Virtually any car, truck, bus or other vehicle is capable of being manufactured or modified to run on natural gas. Approximately 50 different manufacturers in the U.S. produce 100 models of heavy-, medium- and light-duty natural gas vehicles and engines. These vehicles include long-haul tractors, refuse trucks, regional tractors, transit buses, cement trucks, delivery trucks, vocational work trucks, school buses, shuttles, passenger sedans, pickup trucks and cargo and passenger vans. We expect that additional models and types of natural gas vehicles will become available if natural gas is increasingly adopted as a vehicle fuel in the U.S. 

Products and Services 

CNG Sales. We sell CNG through fueling stations and by transporting it to customers that do not have direct access to a natural gas pipeline. CNG fueling station sales are made through stations located on our customers' properties and through our network of public access fueling stations. At these CNG fueling stations, we procure natural gas from local utilities or third-party marketers under standard, floating-rate arrangements and then compress and dispense it into our customers' vehicles. Our CNG fueling station sales are made primarily through contracts with our customers. Under these contracts, pricing is principally determined on an index-plus basis, which is calculated by adding a margin to the local index or utility price for natural gas. As a result, CNG sales revenues based on an index-plus methodology increase or decrease as a result of an increase or decrease in the price of natural gas. The remainder of our CNG fueling station sales are on a per fill-up basis at prices we set at public access stations based on prevailing market conditions. 

Additionally, our subsidiary, NG Advantage, uses a fleet of 54 &#32;high-capacity tube trailers to deliver CNG to large institutions and industrial energy users, such as hospitals, food processors, manufacturers and paper mills that do not have direct access to natural gas pipelines. Utilizing its trailer fleet, NG Advantage creates a "virtual natural gas pipeline" that allows large oil, diesel or propane users to take advantage of the cost savings and environmental benefits of natural gas. We anticipate that NG Advantage will need to purchase or lease additional trailers in the future to transport CNG in support of its operations. 

LNG Production and Sales. LNG is natural gas that is cooled at a liquefaction facility to approximately -260 degrees Fahrenheit until it condenses into a liquid. We obtain LNG from our own plants and from third party suppliers. We own and operate LNG liquefaction plants near Houston, Texas and Boron, California, which we call the "Pickens Plant" and the "Boron Plant," respectively. The Pickens Plant has the capacity to produce 35 million gallons of LNG per year and includes tanker trailer loading facilities and a 1.0 million gallon storage tank that can hold up to 840,000 usable gallons. The Boron Plant is capable of producing 60 million gallons of LNG per year and has tanker trailer loading facilities similar to the Pickens Plant and a 1.8 million gallon storage tank that can hold up to 1.5 million usable gallons. During 2015 , we purchased 43% &#32;of our LNG from third-party suppliers and we produced the remainder of our LNG at the Pickens Plant and the Boron Plant. We purchase some LNG from third parties under "take-or-pay" contracts that require us to purchase minimum volumes of LNG at index-based rates. 

We sell LNG on a bulk basis to fleet customers who often own and operate their fueling stations, and we also sell LNG to fleet and other customers at our public-access LNG stations. We also sell LNG for non-vehicle purposes, including to customers that use LNG in oil fields or for industrial or utility applications. 

We deliver LNG via our fleet of 84 &#32;tanker trailers to fueling stations, where it is stored and dispensed in liquid form into vehicles. We typically own the tanker trailers and we contract with third parties to provide tractors and drivers. Each LNG tanker trailer is capable of carrying 10,000 gallons of LNG. We sell LNG through supply contracts that are priced on an index-plus basis. LNG sales revenues based on an index-plus methodology increase or decrease as a result of an increase or decrease in the price of natural gas. We also sell LNG on a per fill-up basis at prices we set at public access stations based on prevailing market conditions. LNG generally costs more than CNG, as LNG must be liquefied and transported. 

O&#38;M Services. We perform O&#38;M services for CNG and LNG stations that are owned by our customers. For these services, we generally charge a per-gallon fee based on the volume of fuel dispensed at the station. As of December 31, 2015 , we had an operations team of 265 &#32;employees, comprised of 169 &#32;full-time employees performing preventative maintenance and available to respond to service requests in 42 &#32;U.S states and in Canada. In addition, we have 96 &#32;full-time employees performing preventative maintenance on Clean Energy Compression's foreign installations in Bangladesh, Colombia, Peru and China. 

Station Construction and Engineering. Since 2008, we have built 387 &#32;natural gas fueling stations, either serving as general contractor or supervising qualified third-party contractors, for ourselves or our customers. We acquired the additional stations we own that we did not build through acquisitions of assets or businesses. We use a combination of custom designed and off-the-shelf equipment to build fueling stations. Equipment for a CNG station typically consists of dryers, compressors (including those manufactured by Clean Energy Compression), dispensers and storage tanks. Equipment for a LNG station typically consists of storage tanks that hold 5,000 to 25,000 gallons of LNG and related dispensing equipment. We also offer assessment, design and modification solutions to provide operators with code-compliant service and maintenance facilities for natural gas vehicle fleets, which can include the construction and sale of facility modifications, such as our NGV Easy Bay &#8482; &#32;product, a natural gas vapor leak barrier developed specifically for natural gas vehicle facilities. 

Many of our fueling stations have separate public access areas for retail customers, which generally have the look, feel and dispensing rates of traditional gasoline and diesel fueling stations. LNG dispensing requires special training because of the extreme low temperatures of LNG. 

RNG Production and Sales. Our subsidiary Clean Energy Renewables owns RNG production facilities located at Republic Services landfills in Canton, Michigan and North Shelby, Tennessee. Clean Energy Renewables has entered into long-term fixed-price sale contracts for the majority of the RNG that we expect these facilities to produce. We are seeking to expand our RNG business by pursuing additional RNG production projects, either on our own or with project partners. We sell some of the RNG we produce through our natural gas fueling infrastructure for use as a vehicle fuel. We also purchase RNG from third party producers and sell that RNG for vehicle fuel use through our fueling infrastructure. The RNG we distribute for vehicle fuel use is distributed under the name Redeem&#8482; . 

Natural Gas Fueling Compressors. Our subsidiary Clean Energy Compression manufactures, sells and services non-lubricated natural gas fueling compressors and related equipment for the global natural gas fueling market. Clean Energy Compression is headquartered near Vancouver, British Columbia, has an additional manufacturing facility near Shanghai, China, and has sales and service offices in Bangladesh, Colombia, Peru and the United States. Clean Energy Compression enables us to satisfy our internal compressor needs, since compressors are the most important piece of equipment for a CNG station. As the adoption of natural gas vehicles has increased our CNG station construction backlog and our compressor requirements have also increased, and we believe our compressor needs will continue to increase. Clean Energy Compression also allows us to provide certain customers with a "factory direct" offering. Since some customers do not want our full suite of services and simply want a station that they can own and operate themselves, our compressor manufacturing business allows us to offer them a high quality and low cost "equipment only" solution. 

Vehicle Acquisition and Finance. We offer vehicle finance services, including loans and leases, to help our customers acquire natural gas vehicles. Where appropriate, we apply for and receive federal and state incentives associated with natural gas vehicle purchases and pass these benefits through to our customers. We may also secure vehicles to place with customers or pay deposits with respect to such vehicles prior to receiving a firm order from our customers, which we may be required to purchase if our customer fails to purchase the vehicle as anticipated. 

Sales of RINs and LCFS Credits. We generate LCFS Credits when we sell Redeem and conventional natural gas for use as a vehicle fuel in California and Oregon, and we generate RINs when we sell Redeem for use as a vehicle fuel in the U.S. We can sell these RINs and LCFS Credits to third parties who need the credits to comply with federal and state requirements. We anticipate that we will generate and sell increasing numbers of RINs and LCFS Credits as we build our business and sell increasing amounts of CNG, LNG and RNG for use as a vehicle fuel. The market for RINs and LCFS Credits is volatile, and 

the prices for such credits are subject to significant fluctuations. Further, the value of RINs and LCFS Credits will be adversely affected by any changes to the federal and state programs under which such credits are generated and sold. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have sales representatives covering all of our major operating territories, including Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, and Washington in the U.S., in Toronto and Vancouver in Canada and in Bangladesh, Colombia, Peru and China. At December 31, 2015 , we had 92 &#32;employees in sales and marketing, including 16 &#32;employees of Clean Energy Compression. We market primarily through our direct sales force, attendance at trade shows and participation in industry conferences and events. Our sales and marketing group works closely with federal, state and local government agencies to provide education on the value of natural gas as a vehicle fuel and to keep abreast of proposed and newly adopted regulations that affect our industry. 

Key Markets and Customers 

We target customers in a variety of markets, such as trucking, airports, refuse, public transit, industrial and institutional energy users and government fleets. During 2013 , 2014 &#32;and 2015 , approximately 19% , 18% &#32;and 18% &#32;of our revenues, respectively, were derived from contracts with government entities such as municipal transit fleets. We do not depend on a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on us. 

Trucking. We believe that heavy-duty trucking represents one of the greatest opportunities for natural gas to be used as a vehicle fuel in the U.S., and as of December 31, 2015 we fuel over 3,000 heavy-duty trucks. These high-mileage trucks consume significant amounts of fuel and can benefit from the lower cost of natural gas. Many well-known shippers, manufacturers, retailers and other truck fleet operators have started to adopt natural gas fueled trucks to move their freight. Such companies include Honda, Frito-Lay, Fedex, Anheuser-Busch, Verizon, Bimbo, Johnson &#38; Johnson, The Home Depot, AT&#38;T, Colgate-Palmolive, Costco Wholesale, Lowes, Pepsi, UPS, MillerCoors, HP, Unilever, Starbucks, Kraft, Kroger, P&#38;G, Hertz and Owens Corning. To help facilitate the transition of trucking fleets to natural gas, we are building America's Natural Gas Highway. Many of our existing ANGH stations were initially built to provide LNG; however, because operators are adopting LNG heavy-duty trucks and CNG heavy-duty trucks, we designed these stations to be capable of dispensing both fuels. We have been investing, and expect to continue to invest, additional capital in our ANGH stations to add CNG fueling. Many existing ANGH stations are located at Pilot Flying J Travel Centers, one of the largest truck fueling operators in the U.S. To help accelerate the adoption by heavy-duty truck fleets of natural gas, we have negotiated favorable CNG and LNG tank pricing from manufacturers, which we are passing along to our customers . 

Airports. Many U.S. airports face emissions challenges and are under regulatory directives and political pressure to reduce pollution, particularly as part of any expansion plans. Many of these airports have adopted various strategies to address tailpipe emissions, including rental car and hotel shuttle consolidation. In order to reduce emissions levels further, many airports require or encourage service vehicle operators to switch their fleets to natural gas, including airport delivery fleets, door-to-door and parking shuttles and taxis. To assist in this effort, airports are contracting with service providers to design, build and operate natural gas fueling stations in strategic locations on their properties. We serve customers at 39 airports, including Albuquerque, Atlanta Hartsfield Jackson International, Austin Bergstrom International, Baltimore Washington International, Burbank, Cleveland Hopkins International, Dallas-Ft. Worth International, Denver International, Dulles International (Washington D.C.), George Bush International (Houston), Hartford, Las Vegas, Love Field (Dallas), Logan International (Boston), Long Beach, LaGuardia (New York), John F. Kennedy International (New York), Los Angeles International, New Orleans, Newark International, Oakland International, Ontario, Orlando, Palm Springs, Philadelphia International, Phoenix Sky Harbor International, Ronald Reagan Washington National, San Francisco International, Santa Ana/John Wayne, San Diego International, SeaTac International (Seattle), Tampa International, Tucson International and Will Rogers (Oklahoma City). At these airports our representative customers include buses, delivery vehicles and taxi and van fleets, as well as parking and car rental shuttles. We believe these customers are well -suited for natural gas use because they use a relatively high volume of vehicle fuel and can be served by centralized fueling infrastructure. We estimate that vehicles serving airports in the U.S. consume an aggregate of approximately two billion gallons of fuel per year . 

Refuse Haulers. According to INFORM, there are nearly 200,000 refuse trucks in the United States that collect and haul refuse and recyclables from collection points to landfills, transfer stations, waste-to-energy facilities, and material recovery facilities and that consume approximately two billion gallons of fuel per year. We fuel over 10,000 refuse vehicles. Refuse haulers are increasingly adopting trucks that run on CNG to realize operating savings and to address their customers' demands for reduced emissions. We estimate that approximately 55% of new refuse trucks in 2015 operate on natural gas, up from approximately 3% of new refuse trucks in 2008. We serve Waste Management and Republic Services, as well as other private waste haulers such as Atlas Disposal (CA), Blue Diamond Disposal (NJ), Burrtec (CA), Central Jersey Waste (NJ), Choice Waste (FL), CleanScapes (WA), V. Garofalo &#38; Sons (NY), Homewood Disposal (IL), Mission Trail (CA), Livermore 

Sanitation (CA), USA Recycling (CT), Peoria Disposal (IL), Progressive Waste (LA,TX and Canada), Recology (Formerly Norcal Waste) CA, South San Francisco Scavenger (CA), Tidewater Chesapeake (VA), Waste Connections and Waste Pro (FL), among others. We also provide vehicle fueling services to municipal refuse fleets, including fleets in Burbank (CA), Dallas (TX), Fresno (CA), Los Angeles (CA), Sacramento (CA), San Antonio (TX), El Paso (TX), Richmond (VA), Scottsdale (AZ), Mesa (AZ), Kansas City (MO), Atlantic Counties (NJ), Huntington (NY), Smithtown (NY) , Brookhaven (NY), Atlanta (GA), Lancaster (PA) and on Long Island (NY) among other locations. We believe refuse companies are ideal customers because they can be served by centralized fueling infrastructure and they use a relatively high volume of fuel. 

Transit Agencies. According to the American Public Transportation Association, there are over 67,250 municipal transit buses operating in the U.S. In many areas increasingly stringent emissions standards have limited the fueling options available to public transit operators, making them well-suited for adoption of natural gas as a preferred vehicle fuel. Also, transit agencies typically fuel at a central location and use high volumes of fuel. We estimate that transit agencies in the U.S. consume approximately 1.5 billion gallons of fuel per year. Many transit agencies have been early adopters of natural gas vehicles; over 25% of existing transit buses and over 35% of new transit buses operate on natural gas. We fuel over 8,000 transit vehicles and our U.S. public transit customers include the following: in California, Los Angeles Metropolitan Transit Authority, Foothill Transit, Long Beach Transit, Orange County Transit Authority, Santa Cruz Metropolitan, Santa Monica Big Blue Bus, OmniTrans San Bernardino, Commerce, Montebello, Torrance, Elk Grove, Glendale, Santa Clarita and Santa Cruz; in the Southwest, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (TX), Sun Metro (El Paso, TX), El Metro (Laredo, TX), Phoenix Transit (AZ), Tempe Transit (AZ), Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (Las Vegas, NV) and the public agencies in Albuquerque and Santa Fe, New Mexico; in the Midwest, the public agencies in Kansas City (MO) and Akron and Canton (OH); and on the East Coast, Bucks County (PA), Hillsborough Area Regional Transit (Tampa, FL), Jacksonville Transportation Authority (FL), and NICE Bus (Long Island, NY). We also serve public transit customers in British Columbia. 

Industrial and Institutional Customers. &#32;&#32;&#32;Founded in 2011 and based in Vermont, NG Advantage delivers CNG as a substitute fuel source to large institutions and industrial facilities that do not have access to a natural gas pipeline. NG Advantage acts as a "virtual natural gas pipeline," using its fleet of 54 &#32;high-capacity tube trailers to deliver CNG to these facilities for their use. NG Advantage has focused on customers in New England and Eastern New York, but plans to expand beyond these geographic markets in the future. 

Government Fleets. According to the Federal Highway Administration in 2011, there were approximately 4.0 million government fleet vehicles in operation in the United States, including those operated by federal, state and municipal entities and in California and Texas, for example, there were over 667,572 and 571,688 government vehicles, respectively, as of 2012, according to the FHA. As government regulations on pollution continue to become more stringent, government agencies are evaluating ways to make their fleets cleaner and run more economically. Our representative government fleet customers include the California Department of Transportation (Los Angeles and Orange County), State of New York, State of Colorado, City of New York (NY), City of Richmond (VA), City of Hartford (CT), City of Kansas City (MO), Lee's Summit School District (MO), City of Newark (NJ), Atlantic City (NJ), City of Columbia (MO), City of Mesa (AZ), City of Scottsdale (AZ), City of Denver (CO), City and County of Los Angeles (CA), City of Chula Vista (CA), City of Newport Beach (CA), South Coast Air Quality Management District (CA), City of Long Beach (CA), County of Maricopa (AZ), City of San Antonio (TX), City of El Paso (TX), Town of Smithtown (NY), City and County of San Francisco (CA), City of Oakland (CA), City and County of Dallas (TX), City of Phoenix (AZ), The University of California, and Oklahoma State University. 

Corporate Information; Acquisitions and Divestitures 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 2001. In August 2008, we acquired a 70% interest in a facility that collects, processes and sells RNG collected from a landfill in Dallas, Texas. In December 2014, we sold all of our interest in that facility to our project partner. In October 2009, we acquired BAF Technologies, Inc. (together with its wholly owned subsidiary ServoTech Engineering, Inc., "BAF"), a provider of natural gas vehicle conversions and design and engineering services for natural gas engine systems. In June 2013, we sold BAF to a subsidiary of Westport Innovations, Inc. In September 2010, we acquired the advanced, non-lubricated natural gas fueling compressor and related equipment manufacturing and servicing business of IMW Industries, Ltd. (which we have renamed Clean Energy Compression). We purchased Wyoming Northstar Incorporated and its affiliated entities (which we have collectively renamed Clean Energy Cryogenics), a leading provider of station design, construction, operations and maintenance services, in December 2010. In 2011, we acquired the natural gas fueling infrastructure construction business of Weaver Electric, Inc. In March 2013, we sold our interest in Clean Energy del Peru, a CNG provider located in Peru. In May 2013, we acquired Mansfield Gas Equipment Systems, a provider of CNG station design and construction and CNG equipment repair and maintenance services. In September 2014, we formed Mansfield Clean Energy Partners LLC ("MCEP"), a joint venture with Mansfield Ventures LLC. LLC that provides natural gas fueling solutions to bulk fuel haulers in the U.S. In October 2014, we acquired a majority interest in and purchased a CNG station from NG Advantage. We anticipate pursuing additional acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships 

and investments as we become aware of opportunities that we believe we can increase our competitive advantages, expand our product offerings, take advantage of industry developments, or enhance our market position. 

Tax Incentives 

Since October 1, 2006 we have been eligible to receive the VETC federal alternative fuel tax credit of $0.50 per gasoline gallon equivalent of CNG and $0.50 per liquid gallon of LNG that we sell as vehicle fuel. We will continue to be eligible to receive VETC through 2016, although LNG sold after December 31, 2015 is eligible for the tax credit on a per DGE basis. VETC is a renewable tax incentive and therefore may not be available after 2016. In addition, other U.S. federal and state government tax incentives are available to offset the cost of acquiring natural gas vehicles, convert vehicles to use natural gas or construct natural gas fueling stations. 

Grant Programs 

We apply for and help our fleet customers apply for federal, state and regional grant programs in areas where we operate. These programs provide funding for natural gas vehicle conversions and purchases, natural gas fueling station construction and vehicle fuel sold. 

Competition 

The market for vehicle fuels is highly competitive. The biggest competition for CNG and LNG is gasoline and diesel, as the vast majority of vehicles in the U.S. and Canada are powered by gasoline and diesel. Many of the producers and sellers of gasoline and diesel fuels are large entities that have significantly greater resources than we have. We also compete with suppliers of other alternative vehicle fuels, including ethanol, biodiesel and hydrogen fuels, as well as providers of hybrid and electric vehicles. New technologies and improvements to existing technologies may make alternatives other than natural gas more attractive to the market, or may slow the development of the market for natural gas as a vehicle fuel if such advances are made with respect to oil and gas usage. Further, for certain of our key customer markets, such as airports and public transit, we indirectly compete with companies providing alternative transportation methods that may limit these markets generally, such as Uber and Lyft. 

A significant number of established businesses, including oil and gas companies, alternative vehicle and alternative fuel companies, refuse collectors, natural gas utilities and their affiliates, industrial gas companies, truck stop and fuel station operators, fuel providers and other organizations have entered or are planning to enter the market for natural gas and other alternatives for use as vehicle fuels. Many of these current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and other resources than we have. We believe we have approximately 100 competitors in the market for natural gas vehicle fuels, including: 

&#8226; 

Providers of CNG fuel infrastructure and fueling services, including Trillium, AmpCNG, EVO CNG, Questar Fueling, Gain Clean Fuels, Constellation and TruStar Energy; 

&#8226; 

Travel-center operators, including Love's Travel Stops and Sapp Bros., who are adding CNG refueling infrastructure to their networks; 

&#8226; 

Fuel station owners, such as Kwik Trip, a company that owns CNG fueling stations in the Midwestern U.S.; 

&#8226; 

Shell Oil Products U.S. and Blu/TransFuels, which operate LNG fueling stations; and 

&#8226; 

Applied LNG Technology, Stabilis and Prometheus Energy, each of which distributes LNG for use as a vehicle fuel. 

Several natural gas utilities and their affiliates own and operate public access CNG stations that compete with our stations. In December 2012, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a compression services tariff application by the Southern California Gas Company, allowing the utility to offer natural gas fueling infrastructure construction services that compete with our offerings. In January 2014, Northwest Natural was also granted a similar service tariff by the Oregon Public Utilities Commission. In addition, utilities or their affiliates in several other states, including Michigan, Illinois, New Jersey, North Carolina, Missouri, Maryland, Washington, Kentucky, Florida and Georgia, entered or are preparing to enter the market for natural gas vehicle fuels. Utilities and their affiliates typically have unique competitive advantages, including lower cost of capital, substantial and predictable cash flows, long-standing customer relationships, greater brand awareness and large and well-trained sales and marketing organizations. 

We manufacture and sell CNG fueling equipment through Clean Energy Compression. The market for CNG fueling equipment is highly competitive and our competitors include Aspro, GNC Galileo, GE, SAFE, ANGI Energy Systems, and Atlas Copco. Numerous other equipment or compressor manufacturing companies may also enter this market in the future. We 

also compete with many third parties for the rights to develop RNG production facilities or acquire RNG from third party producers, as well as for customers to purchase the RNG that we produce or acquire from third party producers 

We sell CNG to large industrial and institutional energy users through NG Advantage and compete with other participants in this highly competitive market, including Xpress Natural Gas, OsComp Systems and Irving Ltd. 

We compete for vehicle fuel users based on price of fuel, availability and price of vehicles that operate on natural gas, convenience and accessibility of our fueling stations, quality, cleanliness and safety of our fuel, and brand recognition. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned, operated or supplied over 570 &#32;CNG and LNG fueling stations. Of these, we operate 396 &#32;CNG fueling stations, which we estimate is approximately four times the number of CNG fueling stations operated by our next largest competitor. We believe we are the only company in the U. S. or Canada that provides both CNG and LNG on a significant scale, and our natural gas fueling operations cover more states and provinces than any of our competitors. However, we expect competition to increase, particularly if and to the extent the demand for natural gas vehicle fuel and related equipment increases. Increased competition would lead to amplified pricing pressure, reduced operating margins and fewer expansion opportunities. 

Government Regulation and Environmental Matters 

Certain aspects of our operations are subject to regulation under federal, state, local and foreign laws. If we were to violate these laws or if the laws were to change, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations that significantly affect our operations are described below. 

CNG and LNG Stations. To construct a CNG or LNG fueling station, we must satisfy permitting and other requirements and either we or a third party contractor must be licensed as a general engineering contractor. Each CNG and LNG fueling station must be constructed in accordance with federal, state and local regulations pertaining to station design, environmental health, accidental release prevention, above-ground storage tanks, hazardous waste and hazardous materials. We are also required to register with certain state agencies as a retailer/wholesaler of CNG and LNG. 

Transfer of LNG. Federal safety standards require each transfer of LNG to be conducted in accordance with specific written safety procedures. These procedures must be located at each place of transfer and must include provisions for personnel to be in constant attendance during all LNG transfer operations. 

LNG Liquefaction Plants. To build and operate LNG liquefaction plants, we must apply for facility permits or licenses to address many factors, including storm water and wastewater discharges, waste handling and air emissions related to production activities or equipment operations. The construction of LNG plants must also be approved by local planning boards and fire departments. 

Financing. State agencies generally require the registration of finance lenders. For example, in California, pursuant to the California Finance Lenders Law, one of our subsidiaries is a registered finance lender with the California Department of Corporations. 

Natural Gas Fueling Compressors. CNG fueling equipment is manufactured to meet the electrical and mechanical design standards of the country where the equipment will be installed. Our manufacturing facility in Canada is registered with the British Columbia Safety Authority and the Society of Mechanical Engineers for manufacturing and operating pressure vessels. 

RNG. Our RNG production facilities are required to comply with Title V of the Clean Air Act. In addition, our RNG projects must produce RNG that meets the gas quality specifications of the local utilities that accept the gas. These specifications are approved by the relevant state utilities commission. 

Federal RFS. In February 2010, the EPA finalized the RFS (which was established by the Energy Policy Act of 1992/2005), which creates RINs that can be generated by production and use of RNG in the transportation sector and can be sold to fuel providers that are not compliant under the RFS. 

GHG Emissions. California has adopted legislation, AB 32, that calls for a cap on greenhouse gas emissions throughout California and a statewide reduction to 1990 levels by 2020 and an additional 80% reduction below 1990 levels by 2050. Further, in 2015 the Governor of California issued an executive order mandating a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels by 2030. As of January 1, 2015, AB 32 began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions from transportation fuels, including the emissions associated with LNG and CNG vehicle fuel. Under AB 32, the LNG vehicle fuel provider is the regulated party with respect to LNG vehicle fuel use. We estimate that we will be required to pay at least $150,000 in 2016 to comply with AB 32 with respect to our LNG vehicle fuel sales in California. Our costs in future years will depend on how much LNG vehicle fuel we sell that is regulated, CARB's guidance on the regulation of LNG vehicle fuel, potential regulatory changes and the cost of carbon credits under AB 32 at the time we purchase them. We anticipate that the 

costs we incur to comply with this legislation will be passed through to our LNG vehicle fuel purchasers, which may diminish the attractiveness of LNG as a vehicle fuel for California buyers. With respect to CNG, the regulated party under AB 32 is the utility that owns the pipe through which the fossil fuel natural gas is sold. SoCalGas, the Southern California gas utility, has recently announced that it intends to charge CNG fueling customers an additional $0.27 per MMBtu beginning in April 2016 to cover its AB 32 compliance costs. We anticipate that we will pass these additional utility fees on to our customers, which will diminish the economic attractiveness of CNG vehicle fuel. In addition, we anticipate that, over time, we or our CNG customers will be required to pay more for CNG vehicle fuel to cover the increased AB 32 compliance costs of the utility. These costs will be determined by the amount the utility spends to buy any carbon credits needed to comply with AB 32 as a result of the natural gas we or our customers buy through the utility&#8217;s pipeline. Although our Redeem&#8482; &#32;RNG vehicle fuel may qualify for an exemption from AB 32 when sold as LNG or CNG, the complexity of the requirements that biomethane must meet in order to be exempt under AB 32 and the possibility of changes to this legislation make any exemption uncertain. Any Redeem&#8482; &#32;volumes that are not exempt would incur compliance costs commensurate with sales of CNG and LNG derived from fossil fuel natural gas. To help achieve the greenhouse gas emissions reductions for mobile sources that are mandated by AB 32, CARB approved the Low Carbon Fuel Standard, which encourages low carbon "compliant" transportation fuels (including CNG, LNG and RNG) to enter the marketplace by allowing them to generate LCFS Credits that can be sold to noncompliant regulated parties. 

The federal and other state governments are considering passing similar measures to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Any of these regulations, when and if implemented, may regulate the greenhouse gas emissions produced by our LNG production plants, our CNG and LNG fueling stations or our RNG production facilities, and/or the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the CNG, LNG and RNG we sell, and could require us to obtain emissions credits or invest in costly emissions prevention technology. We cannot estimate the potential costs associated with compliance with potential federal, state or local regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and these unknown costs are not contemplated by our current customer agreements. 

We believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations and other known regulatory requirements. Compliance with these regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position but new laws or regulations or amendments to existing laws or regulations to make them more stringent, such as more rigorous air emissions requirements, proposals to make waste materials subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal and clean-up requirements or regulations of greenhouse gas emissions, could require us to undertake significant capital expenditures in the future. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 994 &#32;people. We have not experienced any work stoppages and none of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

We operate our business in one reportable segment. For information about our revenues from external customers, operating income (loss) and long-lived assets broken down by geographic area, see note 14 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. We are subject to certain risks attendant to our foreign operations, which are described below in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Additional Information 

Our website is located at www.cleanenergyfuels.com. We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reference to our website is an inactive textual reference and the contents of our website are not incorporated into this report. 

