 Item 1. Description of Business

Background

We were originally incorporated as Adelt Design, Inc. on March 31, 2011 to manufacture and market carpet binding art. Production and marketing of carpet binding art never commenced. After CLS Labs, Inc. (&#8220;CLS Labs&#8221;) acquired 55.6% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, Jeffrey Binder, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of CLS Labs, was appointed Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Subsequently, the Company adopted amended and restated articles of incorporation, thereby changing its name to CLS Holdings USA, Inc.

The Merger

On April 29, 2015, the Company entered into a merger agreement with CLS Labs and a newly-formed, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the &#8220;Merger Sub&#8221;) and effected the Merger (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;). Upon the consummation of the Merger, the separate existence of the Merger Sub ceased and CLS Labs, the surviving corporation in the Merger, became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, with the Company acquiring the stock of CLS Labs, abandoning its previous business, and adopting the existing business plan and operations of CLS Labs. CLS Labs is a company that plans to generate revenues through licensing, fee-for-service and joint venture arrangements related to its patent pending proprietary method of extracting cannabinoids from cannabis plants and converting the resulting cannabinoid extracts into saleable concentrates.

Operations

For the past three years, one of the founders of CLS Labs has been developing a proprietary method of extracting cannabinoids from cannabis plants and converting the resulting cannabinoid extracts into concentrates such as oils, waxes, edibles and shatter. These concentrates may be ingested in a number of ways, including through vaporization via e-cigarettes, and used for a variety of pharmaceutical and other purposes. Internal testing of the cannabinoids extracted through our patent-pending proprietary process versus the cannabinoids resulting from the processes commonly used in the industry, the results of which were reviewed and confirmed by an independent laboratory, has revealed that our process produces a cleaner, higher quality product and a significantly higher yield than the cannabinoid extraction processes currently existing in the marketplace.

On April 17, 2015, CLS Labs took its first step toward commercializing its patent pending proprietary methods and processes by entering into the Colorado Arrangement. CLS Labs had not otherwise commercialized its patent pending proprietary process prior to the Merger and has not earned any revenues.

We intend to monetize this extraction method and generate revenues through (i) the licensing of our patent pending proprietary methods and processes to others, as in the Colorado Arrangement, (ii) the processing of cannabis for others, and (iii) the purchase of cannabis and the processing and sale of cannabis-related products. We plan to accomplish this through the creation of joint ventures, through licensing agreements, and through fee-for-service arrangements with growers and dispensaries of cannabis products. We believe that we can establish a position as one of the premier cannabinoid extraction and processing companies in the industry. Assuming we do so, we then intend to explore the creation of our own brand of concentrates for consumer use, which we would sell wholesale to cannabis dispensaries. We believe that we can create a &#8220;gold standard&#8221; national brand by standardizing the testing, compliance and labeling of our products in an industry currently comprised of small, local businesses with erratic and unreliable product quality, testing practices and labeling. We also plan to offer consulting services through Cannabis Life Sciences Consulting, LLC (&#8220;CLS Consulting&#8221;), which will generate revenue by providing consulting services to cannabis-related businesses, including growers, dispensaries and laboratories, and driving business to our processing facilities.

Our mission is to be the industry leader in the extraction, conversion and marketing of cannabinoid oils, wax, edibles and shatter by leveraging our extraction methods and conversion processes. We have an experienced team of executives and consultants who each contribute significant value in the scientific, marketing and licensure arenas. Jeffrey Binder, a founder of CLS Labs and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, is a seasoned executive with experience in the strategic start-up and growth of companies in several different industries. Raymond Keller, a founder of CLS Labs, developed the aforementioned patent pending proprietary process of extracting, cleaning and converting the cannabinoids from the cannabis plant and the associated delivery materials and systems for such cannabinoids. Frank Koretsky, a founder of CLS Labs and director of the Company, is a successful entrepreneur who has proven to be a marketing and brand specialist. Alan Bonsett, our Chief Operating Officer, has extensive experience in the cannabis industry, spanning production and processing facility buildouts, business development and strategic planning, licensing and compliance, and supply chain management.

Mr. Keller developed our patent pending proprietary process for extracting, cleaning and converting cannabinoids from cannabis plants. He has also created various delivery systems and materials to ready the converted cannabis product for different uses by different potential distributors. Mr. Keller contributed this intellectual property to CLS Labs in exchange for stock in CLS Labs, which was subsequently exchanged for stock in the Company in the Merger. A patent application has been filed with respect to the process. As there can be no assurances that the application will be granted, the process is currently maintained as a trade secret by the Company. We believe that this patent pending proprietary process will allow us to extract and convert cannabinoids contained in cannabis in a manner that produces a greater yield than methods currently used in the industry. We believe this ability and the ability to convert these refined cannabinoids into products that can be used in multiple delivery systems will provide us with a strategic advantage in the cannabis industry.

Competitive Advantages

Our patent pending proprietary process is expected to reduce growers&#8217; costs and provide them with double the amount of Delta-9 THC compared to our competitors.

Although the current standard within the marijuana extraction industry is to process only the bud and trim from plants, the sophistication of our lab and patent pending proprietary process allow us to use the entire plant, with no trimming or preparation required by the grower prior to delivery. We estimate that this will result in cost savings for growers of 18%-22% versus our competitors&#8217; current methods. Further, the trimming process damages some of the crystals present on the plants, thus reducing the levels of Delta-9 THC, marijuana&#8217;s primary psychoactive ingredient. By processing the entire plant, we expect to eliminate this loss of crystals. We believe that this, along with our patent pending proprietary extraction and conversion method, will result in a concentration of Delta-9 THC that is approximately twice that of the current industry standard.

We expect to produce a much larger amount of Delta-9 THC from plants resulting in higher revenues to us.

As it is customary within the industry to charge growers per gram of Delta-9 THC returned to them following processing, in producing twice the concentration of Delta-9 THC, we anticipate that we will generate per-plant revenues twice that of the current industry standard while also providing greater per-plant value to growers. 

Our patent pending proprietary process is expected to result in market-changing product consistency.

The sophistication of our patent pending proprietary process and proposed labs will allow us to analyze, break down and mix the various cannabinoids extracted from marijuana plants. Doing so will allow us to control the different cannabinoid levels in our products, and should result in market-changing product consistency. As the cannabinoid makeup of plants varies significantly from grower-to-grower, the products generated by most extractors vary based on the source of the plants. Our potential ability to produce a consistent product regardless of the grower will likely be highly desirable among both consumers looking for reliable products and dispensaries desiring to market a consistent brand of products sourced from multiple growers.

We expect to produce cleaner, safer products as a result of the advanced testing that will be used at our sophisticated labs.

Although states currently require testing of marijuana plants for certain chemicals and pesticides prior to processing, such testing does not identify many harmful and undesirable contaminates such as heavy metals, which might be present in plants as a by-product of certain fertilizers used in their growth. Through our patent pending proprietary process, we will conduct testing that is significantly more extensive than current state laws require or industry standards dictate, then remove such harmful contaminates. This should result in a cleaner, safer product that we believe will be preferred by growers and consumers alike.

We expect to provide one-stop, multi-state services to companies wishing to build private label brands that deliver consistent products.

Marijuana cannot currently be transported across state lines, which means that a processor with a single facility cannot process marijuana grown in more than one state. This means that companies that wish to produce private label products in multiple states must contract with multiple processors to process, package and label their products, which leads to a lack of internal consistency within the brand. Our multi-state business plan should allow us to provide consistent processing, packaging and labeling services, setting us apart from these &#8220;mom and pop&#8221; extractors prevalent in the industry. This should allow us to produce currently unavailable multi-state consistency in private label products.

The Colorado Arrangement

As CLS Labs is currently unable to obtain a license in Colorado to operate a cannabis processing facility due to residency requirements, on April 17, 2015, it entered into an arrangement through CLS Labs Colorado with Picture Rock Holdings, LLC (&#8220;PRH&#8221;), which will be licensed by the State of Colorado as a marijuana infused product manufacturer and retailer, to, among other things, (i) license its patent pending proprietary technology, methods and processes to PRH in exchange for a fee; (ii) build a processing facility and lease such facility, including equipment, to PRH; and (iii) loan certain funds to PRH to be used by PRH in connection with its financing of the building out, equipping, and development of the grow facility that will be operated by a licensed third-party marijuana grower (the &#8220;Grower&#8221;).

Licensing Agreement

On April 17, 2015, CLS Labs Colorado entered into a Licensing Agreement with PRH whereby, in exchange for a license fee payable over the ten (10) year term of the agreement, CLS Labs Colorado granted to PRH an exclusive license for the State of Colorado of certain proprietary inventions and formulas relating to the extraction from, separation and processing (the &#8220;Process&#8221;) of marijuana to produce certain marijuana-infused products, including edibles, e-liquids, waxes and shatter (the &#8220;Products&#8221;), and to practice and use the Process in conjunction with the manufacture, production, sale, and distribution of the Products. The Licensing Agreement was subsequently amended effective June 30, 2015, October 31, 2015, April 11, 2016 and May 31, 2016. Pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, as amended, its term will commence once CLS Labs Colorado has completed building a fully equipped lab at the Leased Real Property and payments by PRH to CLS Labs Colorado will commence in the month following the month in which PRH commences generating revenue through the grow facility, which commencement is anticipated to occur during the first quarter of 2017. Pursuant to Colorado law, PRH cannot obtain Colorado marijuana-infused products licenses (the &#8220;MIP Licenses&#8221;) for the Leased Real Property until the processing facility is built out and ready for operation. PRH has an agreement with one of its affiliates that holds the required MIP Licenses to transfer such MIP Licenses to PRH, subject to State of Colorado Department of Revenue Marijuana Enforcement Division (&#8220;MED&#8221;) approval, within three (3) days after the MED is ready to attached the MIP Licenses to the Leased Real Property, which is expected to occur during the third quarter of 2016.

Pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, if during its term, applicable state and local laws change to permit, in whole or in part, the ownership or issuance of a MIP License, directly or indirectly, by or to a person or entity who is not a Colorado resident, CLS Labs Colorado has the option to demand the transfer of up to a fifty six percent (56%) ownership interest in the MIP Licenses owned by PRH to CLS Labs Colorado or its designees. In exchange for such a transfer, the license fee due to CLS Labs Colorado under the Licensing Agreement will be reduced in proportion to the percentage ownership interest in the MIP Licenses transferred by PRH to CLS Labs Colorado or its designees.

Lease and Sublease

In connection with the Colorado Arrangement, on April 17, 2015, pursuant to an Industrial Lease Agreement (the &#8220;Lease&#8221;), CLS Labs Colorado leased 14,392 square feet of warehouse and office space (the &#8220;Leased Real Property&#8221;) in a building in Denver, Colorado where certain intended activities, including growing, extraction, conversion, assembly and packaging of cannabis and other plant materials, are permitted by and in compliance with state, city and local laws, rules, ordinances and regulations. The Lease has an initial term of seventy-two (72) months and provides CLS Labs Colorado with two options to extend the term of the lease by up to an aggregate of ten (10) additional years.

Contemporaneously with the execution of the Lease, CLS Labs Colorado entered into a Sublease Agreement with PRH (the &#8220;Sublease&#8221;), thereby subletting the entire Leased Real Property to PRH. The Sublease was subsequently amended effective October 31, 2015, April 11, 2016 and May 31, 2016. Pursuant to the Sublease, as amended, rent payments will commence in the month following the date upon which PRH commences generating revenues through the grow facility, which commencement is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2017. The balance of the terms of the Sublease is the same as the Lease and PRH is required to pay CLS Labs Colorado monthly rent equal to the total rent due under the Lease for the corresponding month.

In connection with the Sublease, PRH entered into an arrangement with the Grower to grow marijuana at a grow facility at a location contiguous to the Leased Real Property. The Grower obtained zoning approval, a certificate of occupancy to begin planting cannabis and operating the grow facility and a Colorado Retail Marijuana Cultivation Facility License before commencing planting in December 2015, and the grow facility is now fully operational.

Equipment Lease

In addition to the above-referenced Sublease, on April 17, 2015, CLS Labs Colorado and PRH entered into an Equipment Lease Agreement (the &#8220;Equipment Lease&#8221;) whereby, in exchange for a lease payment, CLS Labs Colorado agreed to commence building a fully equipped lab at the Leased Real Property, including purchasing all equipment necessary to extract, convert and provide quality control of all cannabis products of PRH. The term of the Equipment Lease commences upon delivery of the equipment and terminates upon the earlier of ten (10) years from its effective date or such earlier date upon which the Lease is terminated. PRH has the option to renew the Equipment Lease for a period of five (5) years, or such lesser period as remains under the Lease at the time of the renewal.

If during the term of the Equipment Lease applicable state and local laws change to permit, in whole or in part, the ownership or issuance of an MIP License, directly or indirectly, by or to a person or entity who is not a Colorado resident, CLS Labs Colorado has the option to demand the transfer of up to a fifty six percent (56%) ownership interest in the MIP Licenses owned by PRH to CLS Labs Colorado or its designees. In the event of a transfer of MIP Licenses by PRH to CLS Labs Colorado or its designees, the payment due to CLS Labs Colorado under the Equipment Lease will be reduced proportionally by the percentage ownership interest in the MIP Licenses that is transferred.

The Promissory Note

On April 17, 2015, CLS Labs Colorado loaned Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) to PRH pursuant to a promissory note (the &#8220;Note&#8221;) to be used by PRH in connection with the financing of the building out, equipping, and development of the grow facility by PRH that will be operated by the Grower. Pursuant to the Note, as amended by the parties effective June 30, 2015, October 31, 2015, April 11, 2016 and May 31, 2016, PRH will repay the principal due under the Note in twenty (20) equal quarterly installments of Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) commencing in the month following the month in which PRH commences generating revenue at the grow facility, which commencement is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2017, and continuing until paid in full. Interest will accrue on the unpaid principal balance of the Note at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum and will be paid quarterly in arrears commencing after such initial payment and continuing until paid in full. All outstanding principal and any accumulated unpaid interest due under the Note is due and payable on the five-year anniversary of the initial payment thereunder.

Sale of Non-Pharmaceutical Solutions

In connection with the Colorado Arrangement, CLS Labs Colorado intends to enter into an agreement with PRH whereby PRH will purchase from CLS Labs certain proprietary, non-pharmaceutical solutions developed by CLS Labs or its affiliates that enable consumers who ingest the Products to absorb a greater percentage of the cannabinoid extracts contained therein and, in turn, will enable PRH to incorporate a lower percentage of cannabinoid extracts in the Products without diminishing the potency thereof. The terms of the proposed arrangement have not been finalized and a definitive agreement between the parties has not been reached.

Products and Services

Licensing Operations

In states such as Colorado, where we are unable to obtain a license to operate a cannabis processing facility due to residency or other requirements that we cannot meet, we will continue to enter into arrangements similar to the Colorado Arrangement, whereby we will agree to build out a processing facility and then lease the facility and equipment therein to the customer for what will generally be a ten year term. As part of this arrangement, the customer will be required to enter into an agreement of equal length to license our proprietary technology, methods and processes solely for use in the processing facility.

Processing Revenue

We also intend to enter into arrangements with cannabis growers whereby we will process their cannabis for a fee. Under such arrangements, growers will deliver cannabis plants to one of our facilities for processing. We will then apply our proprietary extraction and conversion technology to generate cannabinoid concentrates which may be delivered to the grower in bulk form or, for an additional fee, in individually-labeled retail-ready packages of oils, edibles, wax or shatter. In exchange for our services, we will either charge the grower a flat fee by weight of the finished product or, in certain instances, we may render our services in exchange for a percentage of the finished product which we will then sell to cannabis distributors or dispensaries. 

Processing Facilities

We plan to lease buildings at which to construct processing facilities. We estimate the cost to develop each facility, including equipping the facility with appropriate equipment, to be between $1,000,000 and $3,000,000 and anticipate that we can complete each build out in approximately 4-6 months after any applicable licensing and permitting requirements have been met. We currently anticipate, subject to the availability of adequate capital, that we will be able to open between two and three processing facilities, for use either by a licensee or by us directly, in the next 18-24 months.

We expect that each processing facility will have the capacity to process, depending on size, between 2,000 and 5,000 pounds of cannabis per month. It is our intent not to build out a processing facility unless we believe that it has the potential to process at least 1,000 pounds of cannabis per month after its first twelve months of operations. The revenue generated from processing will vary, state by state and facility by facility, depending upon state law requirements and other factors.

Sale of Products and Brand Creation

Rather than charging growers a fee for our processing services, we may at times purchase unprocessed cannabis plants from growers, process the cannabis in our facility, and then sell the resulting cannabinoid concentrates, such as oils, wax, edibles and shatter, in the wholesale market to distributors or dispensaries. Eventually, we may explore creation of our own brand of concentrates for consumer use, which we would wholesale to cannabis dispensaries. We believe that by standardizing our quality, testing, compliance and labeling, we can create a national brand of concentrates that will be instantly recognizable in each new state that legalizes marijuana sales.

Consulting Services

Through CLS Consulting, we will offer consulting services to cannabis-related businesses such as growers and dispensaries. CLS Consulting consultants will advise clients regarding a variety of areas, such as licensure, growing, marketing and distribution. In addition to the revenue generated for consulting services, we anticipate that CLS Consulting will generate processing and sales business for the Company from grower and dispensary clients.

Growth Strategy

Our growth strategy includes the following plans:

&#183; Securing capital for the construction of processing centers. We estimate the cost to develop each facility, including equipping the facility with the necessary equipment, to be between $1,000,000 and $3,000,000.

&#183; Obtaining the necessary state and local licensure for each proposed facility.

&#183; Securing initial licensing, processing or sales arrangements, as applicable, with growers and dispensaries. Such arrangements may result from marketing efforts, relationships within the industry or the CLS Consulting business.

&#183; Constructing processing facilities. We anticipate that the construction of each facility can be completed in approximately four to six months after any applicable licensing and permitting requirements have been met. We currently anticipate, subject to the availability of adequate capital, that we will be able to open between two and three processing facilities within the next 24 months.

&#183; Expanding per-facility capacity and increasing revenues. After a twelve-month ramp up period, we expect that each processing facility will be able to process, depending on size, between 2,000 to 5,000 pounds of cannabis per month, with the revenue generated therefrom varying state-by-state and facility-by-facility depending upon state law requirements and other factors.

&#183; Developing a national brand of cannabis concentrates, which will be sold wholesale to dispensaries, through standardization of the testing, compliance and labeling process.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

The medical marijuana industry is rapidly expanding and is expected to continue to expand as additional states legalize marijuana for medical use. Additionally, the recreational use of marijuana by adults is currently legal in four states and the District of Columbia and a number of states have decriminalized the use of marijuana in some fashion. As various states continue to legalize marijuana for medical and/or recreational use, the number of potential grower and dispensary clients is expected to increase accordingly.

As such, our initial target market consists of licensed cannabis growers and dispensaries. As 10-20% of the cannabis plants harvested by licensed growers are currently being converted to cannabinoid oil, growers are expected to immediately recognize the value added by our premier methods, which should generate higher profit margins by producing a higher yield of cannabinoid oil per pound of cannabis versus the methods that are currently being employed. As our competitive advantage is directly related to our patent pending proprietary extraction method and conversion process, and as the value of our services should be immediately recognizable, we intend to target licensed, operating growers and dispensaries with an immediate and substantial need for cannabis processing. Upon attaining significant market share among growers and dispensaries, we may also target pharmaceutical clientele and other potential customers.

In cases where we either purchase cannabis for processing or keep a portion of the converted cannabis in exchange for processing a larger amount of product for a grower, we will likely sell such processed product either to the grower or dispensary who sold or supplied us with the raw cannabis or sell the processed product to an unrelated distributor or dispensary. In some cases, we might also process the product and package it for a certain type of use, such as an edible, and sell the processed product to a licensed bakery.

Competition

The cannabinoid extraction business is extremely competitive. We will compete with numerous entities engaged in cannabinoid extraction and conversion, from large commercial enterprises to local &#8220;mom and pop&#8221; extractors that provide services and wholesale concentrates to local growers. Although many of our expected competitors enjoy established relationships with growers and dispensaries, we intend to differentiate our company by producing higher quality, tested and labeled products and generating a higher yield, and therefore higher profit margins, for growers and dispensaries. A significant challenge that we will encounter, however, is that the quality of cannabis products is not presently regulated or standardized. Products bear quality and concentration labels, but these labels may or may not be accurate or the result of scientific testing. As a result, we will have to educate the market about the value of our testing, compliance and labeling and the higher quality of the cannabinoid concentrates produced by our patent pending proprietary process as we cannot readily compare laboratory results of our products to other products on the market.

Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

We have applied for United States federal trademarks for the names Cannabis Life Sciences and CLS Labs. Due to federal laws against the use of cannabis, we are uncertain whether any trademark that includes a reference to cannabis will issue. We have also acquired the Cannabis Life Science, Cannabis Life Sciences and CLS Labs domain names.

Our extraction and processing methods are proprietary, but we do not currently have any issued patents with respect to them. We filed a patent application regarding our proprietary process on October 27, 2015. This patent, if granted, is expected to result in market-changing product consistency, cost savings for growers, and increased anticipated revenues for us due to the larger amount of Delta-9 THC that we believe we can produce through our patent pending proprietary process. As with our trade market, there can be no assurances that the patent application will be granted, for, among other reasons, the fact that it references cannabis.

Until such time as our patent application is granted (assuming it will be granted), we will rely on a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures as well as trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our proprietary process. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent or deter infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Time-consuming and expensive litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce these intellectual property rights even if our patent application is granted.

In addition, although we do not believe we are infringing on the rights of others, we cannot assure you that our intellectual property does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, or will not in the future. If we become liable to third parties for infringing upon their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and be forced to develop non-infringing methods and processes.

Regulation and Licensure

Despite 23 states and the District of Columbia having legalized or decriminalized marijuana use for medical purposes, the prescription, use and possession of marijuana remains illegal under federal law. As such, although we will only operate processing facilities in states that permit the possession, sale and use of cannabis, certain activities of our business, including the possession of cannabis for processing and the sale of cannabis concentrates, will be in violation of federal law. Although state-licensed businesses engaged in such activities are currently proceeding largely free from federal prosecution and recently-enacted federal spending legislation prohibits the Department of Justice from using federal funds to prevent states from implementing their own marijuana laws, changes in congress or in the executive administration, including presidential elections, could result in changes to current federal enforcement policies regarding cannabis-related activities which are legal under certain state laws. Therefore, by operating the business, we will face the possibility of civil and criminal sanctions.

Additionally, certain states in which we seek to operate may prohibit non-resident companies from conducting business directly in the state. In such states, we will seek to enter into a collaborative arrangement with a local entity holding the necessary licensure, whereby we will agree to lease our facilities, equipment and employees to the licensed entity in exchange for a fee. Such an arrangement may be difficult to secure and/or expensive to maintain, as we will be reliant on the licensee to maintain its license in order to continue operations. Further, various state and local licensure application and approval processes may require significant time and expense, and, upon becoming authorized to do business in a state, it may be difficult or expensive for us to comply with the oft-changing laws, regulations and licensure requirements of each state and municipality where we are doing business.

We will need to obtain applicable state licenses in each state in which we will operate processing facilities. License requirements and procedures vary from state to state. The initial state in which we plan to operate is Colorado. Subsequently, we will likely seek to operate in Nevada and Washington.

Employees

We currently have two employees, Jeffrey Binder, who serves as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Alan Bonsett, who was appointed Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective August 15, 2015. We plan to hire a Chief Financial Officer, administrative staff, a lab manager and a consultant, for a total of approximately six employees. In addition, each processing facility will require six to eight employees, depending upon the size of the facility.

Properties

Our principal offices are located at 1435 Yarmouth Street, Boulder, Colorado 80304. We currently lease office and warehouse space located at 1955 South Quince Street, Denver, Colorado 80231, which is subleased to PRH pursuant to the Colorado Arrangement. We also maintain an administrative office at 3355 SW 59th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33155 and a mailing address at 11767 S. Dixie Highway, Suite 115, Miami, Florida 33156. We will lease additional properties in the states in which we conduct our operations as we open processing facilities.

