 Item 1. Business. 

GENERAL 

Comerica Incorporated (&#8220;Comerica&#8221;) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Based on total assets as reported in the most recently filed Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), it was among the 25 largest commercial United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) financial holding companies. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan's oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31, 2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association (&#8220;Comerica Bank&#8221;). As of December 31, 2015 , Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of 2 &#32;active banking and 36 &#32;non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2015 , Comerica had total assets of approximately $71.9 billion , total deposits of approximately $59.9 billion , total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately $49.1 billion &#32;and shareholders&#8217; equity of approximately $7.6 billion . 

Business Segments 

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. In addition to the three major business segments, Finance is also reported as a segment. We provide information about our business segments and the principal products and services provided by these segments in Note 22 on pages F-103 through F-107 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report. 

Comerica operates in three primary geographic markets - Texas, California, and Michigan, as well as in Arizona and Florida, with select businesses operating in several other states, and in Canada and Mexico. We provide information about our market segments in Note 22 on pages F-103 through F-107 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report. 

Activities with customers domiciled outside the U.S., in total or with any individual country, are not significant. We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations: (1) under the caption &#8220;Concentration of Credit Risk&#8221; on page F-30 of the Financial Section of this report; and (2) under the caption "International Exposure" on page F-33 of the Financial Section of this report. 

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, &#8220;Analysis of Net Interest Income-Fully Taxable Equivalent (FTE)&#8221; on page F-6 of the Financial Section of this report; (2) under the caption &#8220;Net Interest Income&#8221; on pages F-7 through F-8 of the Financial Section of this report; and (3) under the caption &#8220;Noninterest Income&#8221; on pages F-8 through F-9 of the Financial Section of this report. 

Acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc. 

On July 28, 2011, Comerica acquired all the outstanding common stock of Sterling Bancshares, Inc. ("Sterling"), a bank holding company headquartered in Houston, Texas, in a stock-for-stock transaction. Sterling common shareholders and holders of outstanding Sterling phantom stock units received 0.2365 shares of Comerica's common stock in exchange for each share of Sterling common stock or phantom stock unit. As a result, Comerica issued approximately 24 million common shares with an acquisition date fair value of $793 million, based on Comerica's closing stock price of $32.67 on July 27, 2011. Based on the merger agreement, outstanding and unexercised options to purchase Sterling common stock were converted into fully vested options to purchase common stock of Comerica. In addition, outstanding warrants to purchase Sterling common stock were converted into warrants to purchase common stock of Comerica. Including an insignificant amount of cash paid in lieu of fractional shares, the fair value of total consideration paid was $803 million. The acquisition of Sterling significantly expanded Comerica's presence in Texas, particularly in the Houston and San Antonio areas. 

COMPETITION 

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica and its subsidiaries mainly compete in their three primary geographic markets of Texas, California and Michigan, as well as in the states of Arizona and Florida. They also compete in broader, national geographic markets, as well as markets in Mexico and Canada. They are subject to competition with respect to various products and services, including, without limitation, loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services, loan syndication services, consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering, mortgage loan origination, consumer products, fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking services, brokerage services, the sale of annuity products, and the sale of life, disability and long-term care insurance products. 

Comerica competes in terms of products and pricing with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions. Some of Comerica's larger competitors, including certain nationwide banks that have a significant 

presence in Comerica's market area, may make available to their customers a broader array of product, pricing and structure alternatives and, due to their asset size, may more easily absorb credit losses in a larger overall portfolio. Some of Comerica's competitors (larger or smaller) may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Further, Comerica's banking competitors may be subject to a significantly different or reduced degree of regulation due to their asset size or types of products offered. They may also have the ability to more efficiently utilize resources to comply with regulations or may be able to more effectively absorb the costs of regulations into their existing cost structure. Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will continue to increase in the future. 

&#32;In addition to banks, Comerica's banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. 

In addition, the industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Banks, bank holding companies, and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company include, among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be well capitalized and well managed. Effective July 2011, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) also requires the well capitalized and well managed standards to be met at the financial holding company level. Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies, and engage in activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; include, but are not limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies (subject to regulatory requirements, including restrictions set forth in the Volcker Rule, described under the heading "The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments " below); insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking. 

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking under the Texas Finance Code. Comerica Bank has elected to be a member of the Federal Reserve System under the Federal Reserve Act and, consequently, is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) under the National Bank Act. Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association, by virtue of being a national bank, is also a member of the Federal Reserve System. The deposits of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) to the extent provided by law. Certain transactions executed by Comerica Bank are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In Canada, Comerica Bank is supervised by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and in Mexico, by the Banco de M&#233;xico. 

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica's non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.), the Office of Financial and Insurance Regulation of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and World Asset Management, Inc.). 

Described below are material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business of Comerica and its subsidiaries. 

Requirements for Approval of Acquisitions and Activities 

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. However, Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions of other depository institutions or bank holding companies. Prior approval is required before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) or a bank. 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities. Comerica Bank's current rating under the &#8220;CRA&#8221; is &#8220;satisfactory&#8221;. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a rating under the CRA of less than &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; Comerica would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities. 

In addition, Comerica, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association, are each &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; under FRB standards. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease being &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well managed&#8221; under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could place limitations on Comerica's ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company. 

Further, the effectiveness of Comerica and its subsidiaries in complying with anti-money laundering regulations (discussed below) is also taken into account by the FRB when considering applications for approval of acquisitions. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB's Regulation W, limit borrowings by Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries from its affiliate insured depository institutions, and also limit various other transactions between Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Comerica's affiliate insured depository institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution's loans and other &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any particular nonbank affiliate to no more than 10% of the institution's total capital and limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution's covered transactions with all of its nonbank affiliates to no more than 20% of its total capital. &#8220;Covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the FRB) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository institution's loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution's transactions with its nonbank affiliates be on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same or at least as favorable as those prevailing for comparable transactions with nonaffiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example, commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act applies the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions to financial subsidiaries and amends the definition of &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; to include (i) securities borrowing or lending transactions with an affiliate, and (ii) all derivatives transactions with an affiliate, to the extent that either causes a bank or its affiliate to have credit exposure to the securities borrowing/lending or derivative counterparty. 

Privacy 

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including Comerica, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. 

Anti-Money Laundering Regulations 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (&#8220;USA PATRIOT Act&#8221;) of 2001 and its implementing regulations substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. To comply with these obligations, Comerica and its various operating units have implemented appropriate internal practices, procedures, and controls. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

The Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the &#8220;Interstate Act&#8221;), as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, permits a bank holding company, with FRB approval, to acquire banking institutions located in states other than the bank holding company's home state without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30% of such deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30%). The Interstate Act, as amended, also authorizes banks to operate branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and by establishing de novo branches in other states, subject to various conditions. In the case of purchasing branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations, the &#8220;host&#8221; state must have &#8220;opted-in&#8221; to the Interstate Act by enacting a law permitting such branch purchases. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the de novo interstate branching authority of banks beyond what had been permitted under the Interstate Act by eliminating the requirement that a state expressly &#8220;opt-in&#8221; to de novo branching, in favor of a rule that de novo interstate branching is permissible if under the law of the state in which the branch is to be located, a state bank chartered by that state would be permitted to establish the branch. Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act also required that a bank holding company or bank be well capitalized and well managed (rather than simply adequately capitalized and adequately managed) in order to take advantage of these interstate banking and branching provisions. 

Comerica has consolidated the majority of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with branches in Texas, Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan. 

Dividends 

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica's revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below. 

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1, 2016 , Comerica's subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $398 million &#32;from retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of $437 million &#32;in 2015 , $380 million &#32;in 2014 &#32;and $480 million &#32;in 2013 . 

Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;), &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regime discussed below, which applies to each of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association, a subject bank is specifically prohibited from paying dividends to its parent company if payment would result in the bank becoming &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends to its parent company, and requiring prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels. 

Additionally, the payment of dividends by Comerica to its shareholders is subject to the non-objection of the FRB pursuant to the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) program. For more information, please see &#8220;The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments&#8221; in this section. 

Source of Strength and Cross-Guarantee Requirements 

Federal law and FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions. 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 

FDICIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A depository 

institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure. 

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 4.5% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. 

As of December 31, 2015 , Comerica and its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under these regulations. 

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the institution's parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized. 

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate. 

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, &#8220;truth in savings&#8221; provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC. 

Capital Requirements 

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC. 

For this purpose, a depository institution's or holding company's assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to various risk categories defined by the FRB, each weighted differently based on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments, based on counterparty type and asset class. A depository institution's or holding company's capital, in turn, is divided into three tiers: Common Equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;), additional Tier 1, and Tier 2. CET1 capital predominantly includes common shareholders&#8217; equity, less certain deductions for goodwill, intangible assets and deferred tax assets that arise from net operating losses and tax credit carry-forwards, if any. Additionally, Comerica has made the election to permanently exclude accumulated other comprehensive income related to debt securities, cash flow hedges, and defined benefit postretirement plans from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital primarily includes noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying allowance for credit losses. Certain deductions and adjustments to CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital are subject to phase-in through December 31, 2017. Entities that engage in trading activities, whose trading activities exceed specified levels, also are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign 

exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors. From time to time, Comerica's trading activities may exceed specified regulatory levels, in which case Comerica maintains additional capital for market risk as required. 

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain CET1, Tier 1 (the sum of CET1 and additional Tier 1 capital) and &#8220;total capital&#8221; (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4.5%, 6% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. At December 31, 2015 , Comerica met all requirements, with CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to 10.54% , 10.54% &#32;and 12.69% &#32;of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively. 

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221; (Tier 1 capital to non-risk-adjusted total assets) of 4%. Comerica's leverage ratio of 10.22% &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;reflects the nature of Comerica's balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy. At December 31, 2015 , Comerica Bank had CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to 10.20% , 10.20% &#32;and 12.05% &#32;of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, and a leverage ratio of 9.89% . 

Additional information on the calculation of Comerica and its bank subsidiaries' CET1, Tier 1 capital, total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in Note 20 &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages F-99 through F-100 &#32; of the Financial Section of this report. Additional information on the timing and nature of the Basel III capital requirements is set forth below, under "Basel III: Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Regime." 

FDIC Insurance Assessments 

The FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits. Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also increased the DIF's minimum reserve ratio and permanently increased general deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000. The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system became effective April 1, 2011. Under the risk-based deposit premium assessment system, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution are determined by an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly and could increase if, for example, criticized loans and/or other higher risk assets increase or balance sheet liquidity decreases. For 2015 , Comerica&#8217;s FDIC insurance expense totaled $37 million. 

In November 2015, the FDIC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Assessments in order to implement section 334 of the Dodd-Frank Act (&#167;334), which requires the FDIC to (1) raise the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35 percent, from 1.15 percent, (2) assess premiums on banks to reach the 1.35 percent goal by September 30, 2020, and (3) offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The FDIC proposed a surcharge on large banks, to be assessed over a period of eight quarters, to begin the quarter after the DIF reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent, as a means to implement &#167;334. As proposed, Comerica would be subject to the surcharge assessment. Management currently estimates that, based on the proposal, total FDIC expense would increase by approximately $10 million annually during the surcharge period, which could begin in either the first or second quarter 2016. 

Enforcement Powers of Federal and State Banking Agencies 

The FRB and other federal and state banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including, without limitation, and as prescribed to each agency by applicable law, the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments 

The recent financial crisis has led to significant changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape of the financial services industry, including the overhaul of that landscape with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Provided below is an overview of key elements of the Dodd-Frank Act relevant to Comerica, as well as other recent legislative and regulatory developments. The estimates of the impact on Comerica discussed below are based on information currently available and, if applicable, are subject to change until final rulemaking is complete. 

Incentive-Based Compensation . In June 2010, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers senior executives as well as other employees who, either individually or as part of a group, have the ability to expose the banking organization to material amounts of risk, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization's incentive compensation arrangements (i) should provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) should be compatible with effective controls and risk-management; 

and (iii) should be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization's board of directors. Banking organizations are expected to review regularly their incentive compensation arrangements based on these three principles. Where there are deficiencies in the incentive compensation arrangements, they should be promptly addressed. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization's safety and soundness, particularly if the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Comerica is subject to this final guidance and, similar to other large banking organizations, has been subject to a continuing review of incentive compensation policies and practices by representatives of the FRB, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Texas Department of Banking since 2011. As part of that review, Comerica has undertaken a thorough analysis of all the incentive compensation programs throughout the organization, the individuals covered by each plan and the risks inherent in each plan&#8217;s design and implementation. Comerica has determined that risks arising from employee compensation plans are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on Comerica. Further, it is the Company&#8217;s intent to continue to evolve our processes going forward by monitoring regulations and best practices for sound incentive compensation. 

On April 14, 2011, the FRB, OCC and several other federal financial regulators issued a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 956 directed regulators to jointly prescribe regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements, or any feature of any such arrangement, at covered financial institutions that encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss. This proposal supplements the final guidance issued by the banking agencies in June 2010. Consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, the proposed rule would not apply to institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion, and would impose heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which includes Comerica. For these larger institutions, the proposed rule would require that at least 50 percent of annual incentive-based payments be deferred over a period of at least three years for designated executives. Moreover, boards of directors of these larger institutions would be required to identify employees who individually have the ability to expose the institution to possible losses that are substantial in relation to the institution's size, capital or overall risk tolerance, and to determine that the incentive compensation for these employees appropriately balances risk and rewards according to enumerated standards. Comerica is monitoring the development of this rule. 

Basel III: Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Regime . In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;) issued a framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (&#8220;Basel III&#8221;). In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule for the U.S. adoption of the Basel III regulatory capital framework. Basel III includes a more stringent definition of capital and introduces a new common equity Tier 1 ("CET1") capital requirement; sets forth two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets ("RWA"), a standardized approach and an advanced approach; introduces two new capital buffers, a conservation buffer and a countercyclical buffer (applicable to advanced approach entities); establishes a new supplemental leverage ratio (applicable to advanced approach entities); and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. As a banking organization subject to the standardized approach, the rules were effective for Comerica on January 1, 2015. Certain deductions and adjustments to regulatory capital (primarily related to intangible assets and surplus Tier 2 capital minority interest) phase in starting January 1, 2015 and will be fully implemented on January 1, 2018. The capital conservation buffer phases in at 0.625 percent beginning on January 1, 2016 and ultimately increases to 2.5 percent on January 1, 2019. Comerica is not subject to the countercyclical buffer or the supplemental leverage ratio. 

Comerica's December 31, 2015 &#32;CET1 and Tier 1 ratios were both 10.54 percent . Comerica's December 31, 2015 &#32;CET1 and Tier 1 capital ratios exceed the minimum required by the final rule (4.5 percent and 6 percent, respectively). 

On September 3, 2014, U.S. banking regulators adopted the Liquidity Coverage Ratio ("LCR") rule, which set for U.S. banks the minimum liquidity measure established under the Basel III liquidity framework. Under the final rule, Comerica is subject to a modified LCR standard, which requires a financial institution to hold a minimum level of high-quality, liquid assets ("HQLA") to fully cover modified net cash outflows under a 30-day systematic liquidity stress scenario. The rule is effective for Comerica on January 1, 2016. During the transition year, 2016, Comerica will be required to maintain a minimum LCR of 90 percent. Beginning January 1, 2017, and thereafter, the minimum required LCR will be 100 percent. As of December 31, 2015, Comerica's LCR ratio meets the fully phased-in 2017 requirement. 

The Basel III liquidity framework includes a second minimum liquidity measure, the Net Stable Funding Ratio ("NSFR"), which requires the amount of available longer-term, stable sources of funding to be at least 100 percent of the required amount of longer-term stable funding over a one-year period. On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued its final NSFR rule, which was originally introduced in 2010 and revised in January 2014. U.S. banking regulators have announced that they expect to issue proposed rules to implement the NFSR in advance of its scheduled global implementation in 2018. While uncertainty exists in the final form and timing of the U.S. rule implementing the NSFR and whether or not Comerica will be subject to the full requirements, Comerica is closely monitoring the development of the rule. 

Interchange Fees . On July 20, 2011, the FRB published final rules (Regulation II) pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act establishing the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction and prohibiting network exclusivity 

arrangements and routing restrictions. Comerica is subject to the final rules. In July 2013, a federal district court invalidated the FRB's interchange fee rules. The FRB's appeal of the court&#8217;s ruling resulted in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia overruling the district court, reinstating the final rule as previously issued. On January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court denied a further appeal. Accordingly, Regulation II remains intact and its limits on interchange fees are now permanent. 

Supervision and Regulation Assessment . Section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the federal banking agencies to assess fees against bank holding companies with total consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion equal to the expenses necessary or appropriate in order to carry out their supervision and regulation of those companies. Comerica accrued $1.6 million for 2015, which will be assessed in the first quarter 2016. 

The Volcker Rule . The federal banking agencies and the SEC published approved joint final regulations to implement the Volcker Rule on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and from owning and sponsoring "covered funds" (e.g. hedge funds and private equity funds). The final regulations adopt a multi-faceted approach to implementing the Volcker Rule prohibitions that relies on: (i) detailed descriptions of prohibited and permitted activities; (ii) detailed compliance requirements; and (iii) for banking entities with large volumes of trading activity, detailed quantitative analysis and reporting obligations. In addition to rules implementing the core prohibitions and exemptions (e.g. underwriting, market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and trading in certain government obligations) of the Volcker Rule, the regulations also include two appendices devoted to record-keeping and reporting requirements, including numerous quantitative data reporting obligations for banking entities with significant trading activities (Appendix A) and enhanced compliance requirements for banking entities with significant trading or covered fund activities (Appendix B). The final rule was effective April 1, 2014. The Volcker Rule generally required full compliance with the new restrictions by July 21, 2015; however, the FRB has extended the conformance period to July 21, 2017 for covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. Comerica is currently in compliance with the effective aspect of the Volcker Rule and expects to meet the final requirements adopted by regulators within the applicable regulatory timelines. Additional information on Comerica's portfolio of indirect (through funds) private equity and venture capital investments is set forth in Note 1 &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on page F-54 of the Financial Section of this report. 

Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests . Comerica is subject to the FRB&#8217;s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, as well as the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST) requirements. As part of the CCAR process, the FRB undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of bank holding companies (BHCs), including Comerica, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. This capital adequacy assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the FRB that describes the company&#8217;s planned capital actions during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the FRB under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory baseline and an adverse and a severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. After completing its review, the FRB may object or not object to the company&#8217;s proposed capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common equity repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments. In connection with the 2015 CCAR, Comerica submitted its 2015 capital plan to the FRB on January 5, 2015; on March 5, 2015, Comerica and the FRB released the revenue, loss and capital results from the annual stress testing exercises and on March 11, 2015, Comerica announced that the FRB had completed its CCAR 2015 capital plan review and did not object to the capital plan or capital distributions contemplated in the plan. The 2015 capital plan submission extended over a period of five quarters, second quarter 2015 - second quarter 2016, due to a modification in timing by the FRB. Comerica plans to submit its CCAR 2016 capital plan to the FRB, consistent with new supervisory guidance (SR 15-19), in April 2016 and expects to receive the results of the FRB's review of the plan in June 2016 and to release its company-run stress tests results in June or July 2016. 

FRB regulations also required that Comerica and other large bank holding companies conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as of March 31st and three company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. On July 23, 2015, Comerica released the results of its company-run mid-year stress tests. For 2016, the mid-year stress test will be moved to an October submission (instead of July). Stress test results are available in the Investor Relations section of Comerica's website at investor.comerica.com, on the &#8220;Regulatory Disclosures&#8221; page under "Financial Reports." 

Enhanced Prudential Requirements . The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (&#8220;FSOC&#8221;) to coordinate efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns and to make recommendations to the FRB as to enhanced prudential standards that must apply to large, interconnected bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies supervised by the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act, including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements. 

On February 18, 2014, the FRB issued its final regulations to implement the enhanced prudential and supervisory requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final regulations address enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, semiannual stress tests (as described above under "Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests"), and a debt-to-equity limit 

for companies determined to pose a grave threat to financial stability. They are intended to allow regulators to more effectively supervise large bank holding companies and nonbank financial firms whose failure could impact the stability of the US financial system, and generally build on existing US and international regulatory guidance. The rule also takes a multi-stage or phased approach to many of the requirements (such as the capital and liquidity requirements). Most of these requirements apply to Comerica because it has consolidated assets of more than $50 billion. Comerica has or will implement all requirements of the new rules within regulatory timelines. 

Resolution (Living Will) Plans . Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (&#8220;covered companies&#8221;) to prepare and submit to the federal banking agencies (e.g., FRB and FDIC) a plan for their rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Covered companies, such as Comerica, with less than $100 billion in total nonbank assets were required to submit their initial plans by December 31, 2013. In addition, Section 165(d) requires FDIC-insured depository institutions (like Comerica Bank) with assets of $50 billion or more to develop, maintain, and periodically submit plans outlining how the FDIC would resolve it through the FDIC's resolution powers under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The federal banking agencies have issued rules to implement these requirements. In addition, those rules require the filing of annual updates to the plans. Both Comerica and Comerica Bank filed their respective initial and updated resolution plans by the required due dates. The 2015 resolution plan updates are currently under review by the FRB and FDIC. 

Section 611 and Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act . Section 611 of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits a state bank from engaging in derivative transactions unless the lending limit laws of the state in which the bank is chartered take into consideration exposure to derivatives. Section 611 does not provide how state lending limit laws must factor in derivatives. The Texas Finance Commission has adopted an administrative rule meeting the requirements of Section 611. Accordingly, Comerica Bank may engage in derivative transactions, as permitted by applicable law. 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a comprehensive framework for over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC&#8221;) derivatives transactions. The structure for derivatives set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act is intended to promote, among other things, exchange trading and centralized clearing of swaps and security-based swaps, as well as greater transparency in the derivatives markets and enhanced monitoring of the entities that use these markets. In this regard, the CFTC and SEC have issued several regulatory proposals, some of which are now effective or will become effective in 2016. 

The SEC and CFTC have jointly adopted rules further defining the terms &#8220;swap,&#8221; &#8220;security-based swap,&#8221; &#8220;security-based swap agreement,&#8221; and have also adopted final joint rules defining the terms &#8220;swap dealer,&#8221; &#8220;security-based swap dealer,&#8221; &#8220;major swap participant,&#8221; and &#8220;major security-based swap participant.&#8221; Comerica has determined that neither it, nor its subsidiaries, are within the definition of &#8220;swap dealer&#8221; or &#8220;major swap participant,&#8221; but some portions of the Title VII regulations apply nonetheless. One of these regulations centers on limiting certain OTC transactions to &#8220;eligible contract participants.&#8221; This regulation impacts Comerica's small business customers that do not qualify as eligible contract participants by making such customers ineligible for swap derivatives as hedging in their loan agreements. 

Consumer Finance Regulations . The Dodd-Frank Act made several changes to consumer finance laws and regulations. It contained provisions that have weakened the federal preemption rules applicable for national banks and give state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8220;), which has a broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit &#8220;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#8221; acts and practices, and possesses examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. In this regard, the CFPB has commenced issuing several new rules to implement various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that were specifically identified as being enforced by the CFPB, as well as those specified for supervisory and enforcement authority for very large depository institutions and non-depository (nonbank) entities. Comerica is subject to CFPB foreign remittance rules and home mortgage lending rules, in addition to certain other CFPB rules. 

The foreign remittance rules fall under Section 1073 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB issued new regulations amending Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, effective October 28, 2013. The regulations were designed to provide protections to consumers who transfer funds to recipients located in countries outside the United States (customer foreign remittance transfers). In general, the regulation requires remittance transfer providers, such as Comerica, to disclose to a consumer the exchange rate, fees, and amount to be received by the recipient when the consumer sends a remittance transfer. Although Comerica had implemented the model disclosures provided in Appendix A to the final rule, on September 18, 2014, the CFPB extended the compliance exception period for the rule's new disclosure requirements to July 21, 2020. 

On November 13, 2014, the CFPB issued a proposed regulation establishing new consumer protections and disclosure requirements on prepaid accounts, including (i) the provision of either periodic statements or free online account information access; (ii) new account error and unauthorized transaction rights; (iii) new &#8220;Know Before You Owe&#8221; prepaid account disclosures; (iv) public disclosure of account agreements for prepaid accounts and (v) credit protection for linked credit accounts. 

Comerica has implemented these new rules and positioned itself to be in compliance with the new requirements. 

Truth in Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;) and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (&#8220;RESPA&#8221;) . In November 2013, the CFPB issued a rule implementing new TILA RESPA Integrated Disclosures (&#8220;TRID&#8221;) to replace the initial Truth-in-Lending disclosure and Good Faith Estimate for most closed-end consumer mortgage loans. The effective date was October 3, 2015. Significant changes in TRID include: (1) expansion of the scope of loans that require RESPA early disclosures, including bridge loans, vacant land loans, and construction loans; (2) changes and additions to &#8220;waiting period&#8221; requirements to close a loan; (3) reduced tolerances for estimated fees and (4) the lender, rather than the closing agent, is responsible for providing final disclosures. Although Comerica outsources most of its consumer mortgage loans, consumer construction financing has been suspended pending further clarification from the CFPB. This regulation has also resulted in a suspension of consumer bridge loan financing. Such financing has not been a significant business for Comerica. 

The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) requires credit card issuers to post consumer credit card agreements to their websites and submit them quarterly to the CFPB commencing February 5, 2015. The CFPB implemented the rule on April 17, 2015. The CFPB delayed implementation of submissions of the agreements to the CFPB until the first week of April 2016. Comerica outsources its consumer credit cards, and does not anticipate any negative impact. 

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) . In July 2015 the CFPB implemented and expanded new HMDA rules. The final rule adopts a dwelling-secured standard for all loans or lines of credit that are for personal, family, or household purposes. Thus, most consumer-purpose transactions, including closed-end home-equity loans, home-equity lines of credit, and reverse mortgages, are subject to the regulation. Most commercial-purpose transactions (i.e., loans or lines of credit not for personal, family, or household purposes) are subject to the regulation only if they are for the purpose of home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing. The final rule excludes from coverage home improvement loans that are not secured by a dwelling (i.e., home improvement loans that are unsecured or that are secured by some other type of collateral) and all agricultural-purpose loans and lines of credit. Comerica is monitoring and implementing changes as required. 

FDIC Guidance on Brokered Deposits . On January 5, 2015, the FDIC issued guidance in the form of &#8220;Frequently Asked Questions&#8221; to promote consistency by insured depository institutions in identifying, accepting, and reporting brokered deposits. On November 13, 2015, the FDIC issued proposed updates to the FAQs. All insured depository institutions (including those that are well capitalized) must report brokered deposits in their Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Reports). Comerica is currently evaluating the impact of these FAQs, including the proposed updates, to various business units throughout the organization, and believes they will only have a nominal impact. 

Flood Insurance Reform. &#32;&#32;The Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (&#8220;Biggert-Waters Act&#8221;), as amended by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, modified the National Flood Insurance Program by: (i) increasing the maximum civil penalty for Flood Disaster Protection Act violations to $2,000 and eliminating the annual penalty cap; (ii) requiring certain lenders (including Comerica) to escrow premiums and fees for flood insurance on residential improved real estate; (iii) directing lenders to accept private flood insurance and to notify borrowers of its availability; (iv) amending the force placement requirement provisions; and (v) permitting lenders to charge borrowers costs for lapses in or insufficient coverage. These requirements will impact Comerica loans and extensions of credit secured with residential improved real estate. The civil penalty and force placed insurance provisions were effective immediately. 

On July 21, 2015, certain federal agencies issued a joint final rule exempting: (1) detached structures that are not used as a residence from the mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements and (2) HELOCs, business purpose loans, nonperforming loans, loans with terms of less than one year, loans for co-ops and condominiums, and subordinate loans on the same property from the mandatory escrow of flood insurance premium requirements. Additionally, the final rule requires Comerica to escrow flood insurance payments and offer the option to escrow flood insurance premiums on residential improved real estate securing a loan, effective January 1, 2016. The federal agencies will address the private flood insurance provisions of the Biggert-Waters Act in a separate rulemaking. Comerica will continue to monitor the development and implementation of the private flood insurance rules. 

Future Legislation and Regulatory Measures 

The environment in which financial institutions will operate after the recent financial crisis, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, and changes in fiscal policy, may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of financial institutions that cannot be foreseen. Moreover, in light of recent events and current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have continued to increase their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Comerica cannot accurately predict whether legislative changes will occur or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of Comerica. 

UNDERWRITING APPROACH 

The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica's long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles 

and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include: 

&#8226; 

People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers. 

&#8226; 

Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility. 

&#8226; 

Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment. 

&#8226; 

Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained. 

&#8226; 

Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk). 

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while maintaining competitiveness with other financial institutions. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk-adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower's ability to repay the principal and interest based on such rates. 

Credit Administration &#160; 

Comerica maintains a Credit Administration Department (&#8220;Credit Administration&#8221;) which is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of our loan portfolio. Credit Administration assists with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower's business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. Each borrower relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Administration. Further, Credit Administration updates the assigned internal risk rating for every borrower relationship as new information becomes available, either as a result of periodic reviews of the credit quality or as a result of a change in borrower performance. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to improve Comerica's risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk. 

Credit Policy 

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica's credit policies provide individual relationship managers, as well as loan committees, approval authorities based on our internal risk rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica's legal lending limit. Credit Administration, in conjunction with the businesses units, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines require approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica's Chief Credit Officer and comprising senior credit, market and risk management executives. 

Commercial Loan Portfolio 

Commercial loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below: 

&#8226; 

The borrower's business model. 

&#8226; 

Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when appropriate. 

&#8226; 

The pro-forma financial condition including financial projections. 

&#8226; 

The borrower's sources and uses of funds. 

&#8226; 

The borrower's debt service capacity. 

&#8226; 

The guarantor's financial strength. 

&#8226; 

A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates. 

&#8226; 

Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate. 

For additional information specific to our Energy loan portfolio, please see the caption, &#8220;Energy Lending&#8221; on pages F-31 through F-33 of the Financial Section of this report. 

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio 

Comerica's CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes both loans to real estate developers and loans secured by owner-occupied real estate. Comerica's CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators and are influenced by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor. 

Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios 

Comerica's consumer and residential mortgage loans are originated consistent with the underwriting approach described above, but also includes an assessment of each borrower's personal financial condition, including a review of credit reports and related FICO scores (a type of credit score used to assess an applicant's credit risk) and verification of income and assets. Comerica does not originate subprime loan programs. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios and elevated loan-to-value. We generally consider subprime FICO scores to be those below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for unsecured loans. Residential mortgage loans retained in the portfolio are largely relationship based. The remaining loans are typically eligible to be sold on the secondary market. Adjustable rate loans are limited to standard conventional loan programs. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , Comerica and its subsidiaries had 8,533 &#32;full-time and 570 &#32;part-time employees. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Comerica maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com &#32;where the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201. 

In addition, pursuant to regulations adopted by the FRB, Comerica makes additional regulatory capital-related disclosures. Under these regulations, Comerica satisfies a portion of these requirements through postings on its website, and Comerica has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC. 

Where we have included web addresses in this report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this report, information on those websites is not part hereof. 

