 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries (&#8220;Chipotle&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, or &#8220;we&#8221;) operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which serve a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads, made using fresh ingredients. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 1,971 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, as well as 11 in Canada, seven in England, four in France, and one in Germany. Additionally, our restaurants included 13 ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, serving Asian-inspired cuisine, and we are an investor in a consolidated entity that owned and operated three Pizzeria Locale restaurants, a fast casual pizza concept, resulting in a total of 2,010 restaurants as of December 31, 2015. We focus on finding the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on building a special people culture that is centered on creating a team of top performers empowered to achieve high standards; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with the highest regard for the safety of our customers and increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 220 and 235 additional restaurants in 2016, including a small number of Chipotle restaurants outside the U.S. and ShopHouse and Pizzeria Locale restaurants within the U.S. 

Our vision is to change the way people think about and eat fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic approach when creating our restaurant experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people to take care of each customer&#8212;features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach is also guided by our belief in an idea we call &#8220;Food With Integrity.&#8221; Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we can&#8212;ingredients that are grown or raised with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow or raise the food. 

We manage our operations and restaurants based on nine regions that aggregate into one reportable segment. Financial information about our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, and our total assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S. For a discussion of risks related to our international operations, see &#8220; Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy and Future 

&#160;

Expansion &#8211; Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors &#8221; in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Our Menu and Food Preparation 

Quality Assurance and Food Safety. &#160; We are committed to serving safe, high quality food to our customers. Quality and food safety measures are found throughout our supply chain, from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line. We have established close relationships with some of the top suppliers in the industry, and we actively maintain a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs for our supply chain. Our training, operations, and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed to ensure that we comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations. 

While our food safety programs have always been carefully designed and have been in conformance with applicable industry standards, in response to food safety incidents during 2015 that impacted hundreds of customers we have recently undertaken a comprehensive assessment of our food safety programs and practices. Using the assistance of highly respected experts we performed a review of the ingredients we use, with a goal of designing an industry-leading food safety program. Components of the new program include DNA-based testing of many ingredients designed to ensure the quality and safety of ingredients before they are shipped to our restaurants, changes to food preparation and food handling practices, including washing and cutting some produce items (such as tomatoes and romaine lettuce) in central kitchens, blanching of some produce items (including avocados, onions, jalapenos and citrus) in our restaurants before cutting them, and new protocols for marinating meats. We are also working to enhance our internal controls surrounding food safety by utilizing the Food and Drug Administration&#8217;s Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) management system. Additionally, we are focused on internal training programs to ensure that all employees thoroughly understand our high standards for food safety and food handling, and we offer paid sick leave to employees to reduce incentives for employees to work while sick. These and other enhancements underscore our commitment to becoming a leader in food safety while we continue to serve high quality food that our customers love. 

Food With Integrity. Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food. As part of our Food With Integrity philosophy, we believe that purchasing fresh ingredients is not enough, so we spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on the sources of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve our food. 

I n all of our restaurants , we endeavor to serve only meats that were raised without the use of non- therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones, and in accordance with criteria we&#8217;ve established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare. We brand these meats as &#8220;Responsibly Raised TM .&#8221; &#160; One of our primary goals is for all of our restaurants to serve meats raised to meet our standards, but we have and will continue to face challenges in doing so. For example, some of our restaurants did not serve carnitas for a portion of 2015, and some of our restaurants served conventionally raised chicken for periods during 2015, due to supply constraints for our Responsibly Raised meats. More of our restaurants may periodically serve conventionally raised meats or stop serving one or more menu items in the future due to additional supply constraints. When we become aware that one or more of our restaurants will serve conventionally raised meat, we clearly and specifically disclose this temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that customers can avoid those meats if they choose to do so. 

We also seek to use more responsibly grown produce, meaning produce grown by suppliers who we believe respect the environment and their employees. A portion of our beans is organically grown and a portion is grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. A portion of some of the other produce items we serve is organically grown as well. Our commitment to Food With Integrity also extends to the dairy products we serve. The sour cream and cheese we buy is made with milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone). Also, milk used to make much of our cheese and sour cream is sourced from pasture-based dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing outdoor access for their cows. 

In the spring of 2015, we announced we have reached our goal of eliminating (as further described on our website) genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, from the ingredients in our food (not including beverages) in U.S. Chipotle restaurants, as well as ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen. While the meat and poultry we serve is not genetically modified, the animals are likely fed a diet containing GMOs. Due to the prevalence of GMOs in a number of important feed crops, the vast majority of the grains used as animal feed in the U.S. are genetically modified. With respect to beverages, some of the beverages we serve are sweetened with corn-based sweeteners, which are typically made with genetically modified corn. 

&#160;

We do occasionally face challenges associated with pursuing our Food With Integrity mission. In addition to the supply challenges noted above, there can be higher costs and other risks associated with purchasing ingredients grown or raised with an emphasis on quality, environmental sustainability and other responsible practices. Growth rate and weight gain can be lower for chickens, cattle and pigs that are not fed non-therapeutic antibiotics and for cattle that are not given growth hormones. Crops grown organically or using other responsible practices can take longer to grow and crop yields can be lower. It can take longer to identify and secure relationships with suppliers that are able to meet our criteria for meat, dairy and produce ingredients. Given the costs associated with what we believe are responsible farming practices, many large suppliers have not found it economical to pursue business in this area. However, we believe that in addition to seeking great tasting and nutritious food, consumers are increasingly concerned about where their food comes from and how it is raised. And we believe that as consumers become more educated about better animal welfare and farming practices as well as social accountability, they will foster greater demand for responsibly grown foods in the long term. We believe that increased demand over the long term for the types of meat and produce items we strive to serve will continue to attract the interest and capital investment of larger farms and suppliers. We also understand that we&#8217;ll continue to be at the forefront of this trend and must balance our interest in advancing Food With Integrity with our desire to provide great food at reasonable prices. If we are able to continue growing while focusing on Food With Integrity, we believe our sourcing flexibility will improve over time, though we expect that most of these ingredients and other raw materials will remain more expensive than conventionally raised, commodity-priced equivalents. 

A Few Things, Thousands of Ways. Chipotle restaurants serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from four different meats or tofu, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there&#8217;s enough variety to extend our menu to provide thousands of choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we&#8217;ll consider additions that we think make sense. 

In preparing our food, we use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak that is marinated and grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy shredded beef) and vegetarian pinto and black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer&#8217;s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with fresh lime juice and salt. In addition to sodas, fruit drinks and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with some prepared in our restaurants and some prepared with the same fresh ingredients in larger batches in commissaries. 

Food Served Fast &#8230; So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly. Our food is made slowly and carefully, but each customer order can be ready in seconds. Customers select exactly what they want and how they want it by speaking directly to the employees that prepared the food and are assembling the order. While we think our customers return because of the great-tasting food, we also think they like getting food served fast without having a typical &#8220;fast-food&#8221; experience. And while our restaurants often have lines, we try to serve customers as quickly as possible. We do this by focusing on what we call the &#8220;f our p illars &#8221; of t hr oughput: having a dedicated expeditor, who works just before the cashier to get drink and side orders and bag to-go orders; a dedicated linebacker, to make sure the serving line is stocked with all our ingredients so the employees on the line can focus on each customer&#8217;s order; proper mise en p lace , or putting everything in its place before starting food preparation ; and ensuring that we have &#8220; aces in their places ,&#8221; or well-trained employees at each position during all of our peak periods. When we do this well, our customers are served quickly without feeling rushed. We&#8217;ve even been able to serve more than 300 customers an hour at some locations. 

The natural flow of our restaurant layout, including the floor plan and the design of our serving line, are designed to make the food ordering process intuitive and, we believe, more efficient. And we constantly strive to improve the speed of service in all of our restaurants, so that we can accommodate more customers and larger orders without disrupting restaurant traffic. However, we&#8217;ve also introduced a number of additional ways to serve our customers. For instance, our restaurants accept orders online or through an iPhone or Android ordering application to provide a more convenient experience by allowing customers to avoid standing in line. We&#8217;ve also introduced catering in all U.S. Chipotle restaurants except in New York City, and we offer delivery service through a number of third party services with whom we&#8217;ve partnered. By emphasizing speed of service without compromising the genuine interactions between our customers and our crews, and by expanding ways for customers to enjoy Chipotle, we believe that we can provide a high quality experience to more and more customers. 

Restaurant Management and Operations 

Culture of Top Performers. In addition to our focus on the food we serve, we have a similarly focused people culture with an emphasis on identifying, hiring and empowering top-performing employees. We are committed to creating a performance based culture that leads to the best restaurant experience possible for our employees and our customers. The foundation of that culture starts 

&#160;

with hiring the best people in our restaurants. We make an effort to hire employees who share a passion for food and who will operate our restaurants in a way that is consistent with our high standards, yet allows each of their unique personalities and strengths to contribute to our success. We believe we provide attractive career opportunities to crew and managers who are committed to work hard, provide great customer service and have the ability to lead and empower a team of top performers. We provide hands on, shoulder-to-shoulder training, along with career path training materials, to develop the full potential of our restaurant employees. We are committed to developing our people and promoting from within, with about 84% of salaried management and about 97% of hourly management coming from internal promotions. Our best general managers, who run great restaurants and develop strong, empowered restaurant teams, may be promoted to Restaurateur and in that role can earn bonuses for developing people. We have leveraged our outstanding Restaurateurs&#8217; leadership by giving many Restaurateurs responsibility for mentoring one or more nearby restaurants. This provides an opportunity for Restaurateurs to develop into field leadership roles one restaurant at a time. Restaurateurs who have shown they can successfully run four restaurants by developing teams of empowered top performers (including at least one Restaurateur), thereby creating a culture of high standards, constant improvement and empowerment in each of their restaurants, can be promoted to apprentice team leaders. 

Importance of Methods and Culture. Although we have many restaurants, we believe that our departure from the automated cooking techniques and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking methods: they marinate and grill meats, make fresh salsa and guacamole, and cook rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a traditional fast-food place. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, our focused menu creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants. 

The Front Line is Key . Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our focus on service, and our open kitchen design allows customers to see that we prepare our food fresh throughout each and every day. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged to interact with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or serving customers during our busiest periods. We focus on attracting and retaining people who can deliver that experience for each customer. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among general managers, crew members and customers alike. &#160; 

Restaurant Team. Each restaurant typically has a general manager or Restaurateur (a position we&#8217;ve characterized as the most important in the company), an apprentice manager (in most of our restaurants), and we aim to have two or three hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 23 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our busier restaurants. We cross-train our people so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our general managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or area managers, team directors, executive team directors, and restaurant support officers. 

Supply Chain 

Close Relationships with Suppliers. Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 24 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and their understanding of our mission, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with suppliers. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols, and our distribution centers purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers. We&#8217;ve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (beef, pork, chicken, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. For a discussion of risks related to our supply chain, see &#8220; Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry &#8211; &#160; Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations &#8221; and &#8220; Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy &#8211; &#160; Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks&#8221; in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; &#160; 

Marketing 

A great dining experience in our restaurants is our most powerful marketing of all. But there is still a need to introduce our brand to new customers and engage with existing ones in other ways, by helping them understand what makes Chipotle different than 

&#160;

other restaurants. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications, and other design elements all help to communicate something about what differentiates Chipotle from typical fast food. Whether it&#8217;s engaging with Chipotle via our various social media channels, participating in our local events, or simply eating a burrito at one of our restaurants, each customer interaction affords us an important opportunity to build our brand. As Chipotle works to reinvigorate our brand in the wake of the food safety-related incidents that affected us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, our marketing will have a greater emphasis than usual on programs that are specifically designed to drive traffic into our restaurants. An element of our marketing and communications programs will also focus on supply chain transparency, as we work to help customers understand the changes we are making in an effort to establish ourselves as an industry leader in food safety. 

Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit, and radio ads, but we also incorporate digital advertising into the mix, and conduct strategic promotions that demonstrate our Food With Integrity mission while connecting us to like-minded individuals or organizations. Beyond these traditional channels, we continue to pioneer new avenues of branded content aimed at making consumers more curious about some of the issues that are important to us, and explaining why and how we are working to drive positive change in the nation&#8217;s food supply. 

We also recognize the need for our marketing to evolve, much as our unique food and people cultures have evolved in recent years. To this end, we have been developing more &#8220;owned media,&#8221; including new video, music, and content programs, a more visible event strategy that includes our &#8220;Cultivate&#8221; food, music, and ideas festivals, and participation in relevant events in markets around the country. Many of these programs allow us to tell our story with more nuance than is afforded by traditional advertising, and help forge stronger emotional connections with our customers. We have also increased our use of digital, mobile, and social media in our overall marketing mix, giving customers greater opportunity to access Chipotle in ways that are convenient for them and broadening our ability to engage with our customers individually. 

Alongside our excellent restaurant teams, these efforts have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity as our customers learn more about us and share with others. This approach allows us to build awareness and loyalty with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the right thing in every facet of our business. 

Competition 

The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, brand reputation, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out, catering, and delivery services. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. Unlike Chipotle, a number of our competitors grow through franchising. 

Some of our competitors have formats that might resemble ours, and many competitors are moving towards higher quality food to compete with us. A number of these competitors have sought to differentiate themselves with a focus that overlaps with many facets of our Food With Integrity mission. Additionally, several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as lower in fat, carbohydrates, or calories or otherwise better for customers, or targeted at particular dietary preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segment of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, &#8220;value meal&#8221; menu options, a strategy we do not currently pursue. 

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store caf&#233;s of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who seek higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias, and other dining outlets. These competitors may have, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing, and more efficient operations than we do. For more information, see &#8220; Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry&#8212;Competition could adversely affect us &#8221; in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

We believe we are well-positioned versus many of our competitors given current consumer trends, including increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared. We also believe that we&#8217;re known for our focus on having teams of top-performing employees using classic cooking techniques to prepare food made from high-quality ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen&#8212;resulting in delicious food&#8212;as well as our commitment to &#8220;Food With Integrity.&#8221; We think this unique combination adds up to an excellent customer experience in our restaurants, which we believe represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate. However, we will need to re-establish customer trust in light of the food safety incidents that negatively impacted us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, and doing so in the competitive environment in which we operate will be one of our key challenges in 2016 and beyond. 

&#160;

Restaurant Site Selection 

We believe site selection is critical to our success and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential location. Our site selection process is led by our internal team of real estate managers and also includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets. Locations proposed by real estate managers are reviewed by development management as part of a formal site ride, as well as in a written real estate package. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information on competitors and other restaurants. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, food courts, outlet centers, airports, military bases and train stations. 

ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen and Pizzeria Locale 

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based&#8212;finding the very best sustainably raised ingredients, prepared and cooked using classical methods in front of the customer, and served in an interactive format by special people dedicated to providing a great dining experience&#8212;can be adapted to cuisines other than the food we serve at Chipotle. 

In order to see how our model works when we use different ingredients and a different style of food, we opened our first ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen during 2011 and we now have a total of 13 ShopHouse restaurants. ShopHouse serves a menu that, like at Chipotle, is focused; main dishes consist of rice or noodle bowls made with steak, chicken, meatballs made with pork and chicken, or tofu. Further, during 2013, we invested in a consolidated entity that now owns and operates three Pizzeria Locale restaurants , a fast casual pizza concept serving &#160; a menu that includes classic pizzas and salads, from a select ion of high-quality ingredients. 

We expect our openings in 2016 to include a small number of ShopHouse and Pizzeria Locale restaurants, with our immediate restaurant expansion focus remaining on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand. &#160; 

Information Systems 

We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each restaurant, and within our centralized corporate infrastructure. The services available within our systems and applications include restaurant operations, supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. The restaurant structure is based primarily on a point-of-sales system that operates locally at the restaurant and is integrated with other functions necessary to restaurant operations. It records sales transactions, receives out of store orders, and authorizes, batches, and transmits credit card transactions. The system also allows employees to enter time clock information and to produce a variety of &#160; management reports. Select information that is captured from this system at each restaurant is collected in the central corporate infrastructure, which enables management to continually monitor operating results. 

We will continue to invest in our applications and systems to support our continued expansion. See &#8220; General Business Risks &#8212; We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information &#8221; in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; for a discussion of risks associated with our information systems. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had about 59,330 employees, including about 5,100 salaried employees and about 54,230 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Seasonality 

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year. Seasonal factors, however, might be moderated or outweighed by other factors that may influence our quarterly results, such as the adverse publicity that we saw during 2015 around food-borne illness incidents associated with our restaurants, as well as fluctuations in food or packaging costs or the timing of menu price increases. 

&#160;

Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks 

&#8220;Chipotle,&#8221; &#8220;Chipotle Mexican Grill,&#8221; &#8220;Unburritable,&#8221; &#8220;Food With Integrity,&#8221; &#8220;Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,&#8221; &#8220;The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands,&#8221; &#8220;Responsibly Raised,&#8221; &#8220;ShopHouse&#8221; and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for &#8220;Chipotle&#8221; and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for &#8220;Chipotle Mexican Grill,&#8221; &#8220;Chipotle&#8221; and a number of other marks in various countries as well. 

We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be i nactive textual references only. 

&#160;

