 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (&#8220;CPRL&#8221;), together with its subsidiaries (&#8220;CP&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;), operates a transcontinental railway in Canada and the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;). CP's diverse business mix includes bulk commodities, merchandise freight and intermodal traffic over a network of approximately 12,500 &#32;miles, serving the principal business centres of Canada from Montreal, Quebec, to Vancouver, British Columbia, and the U.S. Northeast and Midwest regions. 

CPRL was incorporated on June 22, 2001, under the Canada Business Corporations Act and controls and owns all of the Common Shares of Canadian Pacific Railway Company (&#8220;CPRC&#8221;) which was incorporated by Letters Patent in 1881 pursuant to an Act of the Parliament of Canada. The Company&#8217;s registered, executive and head office is located at 7550 Ogden Dale Road S.E., Calgary, Alberta T2C 4X9. CP's Common Shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (&#8220;TSX&#8221;) and the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;CP&#8221;. 

For purposes of this report, all references herein to &#8220;CP,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; refer to CPRL, CPRL and its subsidiaries, CPRL and one or more of its subsidiaries, or one or more of CPRL's subsidiaries, as the context may require. All references to currency amounts included in this annual report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements, are in Canadian dollars unless specifically noted otherwise. 

For additional information regarding CP's network and geographical locations refer to Item 2. Properties. 

Strategy 

CP is driving change as it moves through its transformational journey to become the best railroad in North America while creating long-term value for shareholders. The Company is focused on providing customers with industry-leading rail service; driving sustainable, profitable growth; optimizing its assets; and reducing costs while remaining a leader in rail safety. Looking forward, CP is executing its strategic plan to become the lowest cost rail carrier centred on five key foundations, which are the Company&#8217;s performance drivers. 

Provide Service: &#32;Providing efficient and consistent transportation solutions for the Company&#8217;s customers. &#8220;Doing what we say we are going to do&#8221; is what drives CP in providing a reliable product with a lower cost operating model. Centralized planning aligned with local execution is bringing the Company closer to the customer and accelerating decision-making. 

Control Costs: &#32;Controlling and removing unnecessary costs from the organization, eliminating bureaucracy and continuing to identify productivity enhancements are the keys to success. 

Optimize Assets: &#32; Through longer sidings, improved asset utilization and increased train lengths, the Company is moving increased volumes with fewer locomotives and cars while unlocking capacity for future growth potential. 

Operate Safely: &#32;Each year, CP safely moves millions of carloads of freight across North America while ensuring the safety of our people and the communities through which we operate. Safety is never to be compromised. Continuous research and development in state-of-the-art safety technology and highly focused employees ensure our trains are built for safe, efficient operations across our network. 

Develop People: &#32;CP recognizes that none of the other foundations can be achieved without its people. Every CP employee is a railroader and the Company is shaping a new culture focused on a passion for service with integrity in everything it does. Coaching and mentoring managers into becoming leaders will help drive CP forward. 

Business Developments 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, CP proposed a business combination with Norfolk Southern Corporation (&#8220;NS&#8221;). While CP is firmly of the view that a business combination would deliver improved levels of service to customers and communities while enhancing competition and creating significant shareholder value, to date, NS has rejected CP&#8217;s proposal. On February 9, 2016, CP notified NS of its intent to submit a resolution to NS shareholders to ask their Board of Directors to engage in good faith discussions with CP regarding a business combination transaction involving CP and NS that would create a true end-to-end transcontinental railroad that would enhance competition, benefit the public and drive economic growth. 

During the third quarter of 2015, the Company completed the sale of approximately 283 miles of the Delaware and Hudson Railway Company, Inc.&#8217;s line between Sunbury, Pennsylvania, and Schenectady, New York (&#8220;D&#38;H South&#8221;) to NS for proceeds of $281 million (U.S. $214 million). 

During the first quarter of 2015, CP entered into an agreement to create a joint venture with Canadian Dream Venture LP called Dream VHP Limited Partnership. The joint venture was created to evaluate the Company&#8217;s real estate and to explore innovative ways to maximize value, including industrial, commercial and residential development. 

During the second quarter of 2014, the Company completed the sale of approximately 660 miles of the Dakota, Minnesota &#38; Eastern (&#8220;DM&#38;E&#8221;) tracks between Tracy, Minnesota; Rapid City, South Dakota; Colony, Wyoming; and Crawford, Nebraska to Genesee &#38; Wyoming Inc. (&#8220;G&#38;W&#8221;) for proceeds of $236 million (U.S. $218 million). 

Change in Executive Officers 

On February 11, 2015, the Company announced that Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer (&#8220;CFO&#8221;), Mr. Bart W. Demosky, had decided to leave the Company. On May 4, 2015, the Company announced Mr. Mark J. Erceg was appointed Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Erceg joined the Company on May 18, 2015. 

On October 27, 2015, the Company announced that Mr. Paul A. Guthrie will retire in the first quarter of 2016. Mr. Guthrie was appointed Special Counsel to the Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;) to support the transition. Mr. Jeffrey J. Ellis was appointed Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary effective November 23, 2015. 

Change in Board of Directors 

Effective May 14, 2015, Mr. Keith E. Creel and the Hon. John R. Baird were elected to the Board of Directors of Canadian Pacific Railway Limited. 

On July 3, 2015, Mr. Stephen C. Tobias resigned as a member of the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors. Mr. Tobias joined the Board on May 17, 2012. 

On July 20, 2015, Mr. Andrew F. Reardon was elected Chairman of the Board. On July 20, 2015, Mr. Gary F. Colter and Ms. Krystyna T. Hoeg resigned as members of the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors. Mr. Colter joined the Board on May 17, 2012 and was the Chairman of the Board from May 1, 2014 until his resignation. Ms. Hoeg joined the Board on May 11, 2007. 

Ms. Linda J. Morgan, who was a director of the Company since 2006 and Chair of the Health, Safety, Security, and Environment Committee and Member of the Audit Committee, passed away on November 4, 2015. 

On January 26, 2016, Mr. Paul C. Hilal resigned from the Board. Mr. Matthew H. Paull was appointed to the Company's Board of Directors on January 26, 2016 and is currently the Chair of the Audit Committee. 

Operations 

The Company operates in only one operating segment: rail transportation. Although the Company provides a breakdown of revenue by business line, the overall financial and operational performance of the Company is analyzed as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network. Additional information regarding the Company's business and operations, including revenue and financial information and information by geographic location, is presented in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 29 Segmented and geographic information. 

Lines of Business 

The Company transports bulk commodities, merchandise freight and intermodal traffic. Bulk commodities include grain, coal, potash, fertilizers and sulphur. Merchandise freight consists of finished vehicles and automotive parts, as well as forest and industrial and consumer products. Intermodal traffic consists largely of retail goods in overseas containers that can be transported by train, ship and truck and in domestic containers and trailers that can be moved by train and truck. 

The Company&#8217;s revenues are primarily derived from transporting freight. In 2015, the Company generated freight revenues totalling $ 6,552 million &#32;($ 6,464 million &#32;in 2014 and $ 5,982 million &#32;in 2013). The following charts compare the percentage of the Company&#8217;s total freight revenues derived from each of the three major business lines in 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

2015 Freight revenues 

2014 Freight revenues 

2013 Freight revenues 

&#160; 

BULK 

CP&#8217;s bulk business represented approximately 44% of total freight revenues in 2015. 

The following charts compare the percentage of the Company's freight revenues derived from bulk commodities transportation, including per commodity business in 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

2015 Bulk revenues 

2014 Bulk revenues 

2013 Bulk revenues 

Canadian Grain 

The Company&#8217;s Canadian grain business represented approximately 37% of bulk revenues, which is 16% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Canadian grain transported by CP consists of both whole grains, such as wheat, corn, soybeans and canola, and processed products such as meals, oils and flour. This business is centred in the Canadian Prairies (Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba), with grain shipped primarily west to the Port Metro Vancouver in British Columbia ("B.C.") and east to the Port of Thunder Bay in Ontario for export. Grain is also shipped to the U.S., Mexico and to Eastern Canada for domestic consumption. 

Canadian grain includes a division of business that is regulated by the Canadian government through the Canada Transportation Act (&#8220;CTA&#8221;). This regulated business is subject to a maximum revenue entitlement (&#8220;MRE&#8221;). Under this regulation, railroads can set their own rates for individual movements. However, the MRE governs aggregate revenue earned by the railroad based on a formula 

that factors in the total volumes, length of haul, average revenue per ton and inflationary adjustments. The regulation applies to Western Canadian export grain shipments to the ports of Vancouver and Thunder Bay. 

U.S. Grain 

CP&#8217;s U.S. grain business represented approximately 18% of bulk revenues, which is 8% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

U.S. grain transported by CP consists of both whole grains, such as wheat, corn and soybeans, and processed products such as meals, oils and flour. This business is centred in the states of North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa and South Dakota. Export grain traffic from this producing region is shipped to ports at Duluth and Superior in Minnesota. In partnership with other railroads, CP also moves grain to export terminals in the U.S. Pacific Northwest and the Gulf of Mexico. Grain destined for domestic consumption moves east via Chicago, Illinois to the U.S. Northeast or is interchanged with other carriers to the U.S. Southeast, Pacific Northwest and Californian markets. 

Coal 

The Company&#8217;s Coal business represented approximately 22% of bulk revenues, which is 10% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

CP handles mostly metallurgical coal destined for export through the Port Metro Vancouver for use in the steelmaking process in the Pacific Rim, Europe and South America. CP&#8217;s Canadian coal traffic originates mainly from Teck Resource Limited&#8217;s mines in southeastern B.C. CP moves coal west from these mines to port terminals for export to world markets, east for the U.S. Midwest markets and for consumption in steelmaking mills along the Great Lakes. 

In the U.S., CP moves primarily thermal coal from connecting railways serving the thermal coal fields in the Powder River Basin in Montana and Wyoming. It is then delivered to power-generating facilities in the U.S. Midwest. CP also serves petroleum coke operations in Canada and the U.S., where the product is used for power generation and aluminum production. 

Potash 

The Company's Potash business represented approximately 13% of bulk revenues, which is 5% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

The Company&#8217;s potash traffic moves mainly from Saskatchewan to offshore markets through the ports of Vancouver, Thunder Bay and Portland, Oregon and to markets in the U.S. All potash shipments for export beyond Canada and the U.S. are marketed by Canpotex Limited, a joint venture among Saskatchewan&#8217;s potash producers. Independently, these producers move domestic potash with CP primarily to the U.S. Midwest for local application. 

Fertilizers and Sulphur 

Fertilizers and sulphur business represented approximately 10% of bulk revenues, which is 4% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Chemical fertilizers are transported to markets in Canada and the U.S. from key production areas in the Canadian Prairies. Phosphate fertilizer is also transported from U.S. and Canadian producers to markets in Canada and the northern U.S. CP provides transportation services from major nitrogen production facilities in Western Canada and has efficient routes to the major U.S. markets. CP also has direct service to key fertilizer distribution terminals, including via facilities on the Mississippi River system at Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota, as well as access to Great Lakes vessels at Thunder Bay. 

Most sulphur is produced in Alberta as a byproduct of processing sour natural gas, refining crude oil and upgrading bitumen produced in the Alberta oil sands. Sulphur is a raw material used primarily in the manufacturing of sulphuric acid, which is used most extensively in the production of phosphate fertilizers. Demand for elemental sulphur rises with demand for fertilizers. Sulphuric acid is also a key ingredient in industrial processes ranging from smelting and nickel leaching to paper production. 

MERCHANDISE 

CP&#8217;s merchandise business represented approximately 36% of total freight revenues in 2015. 

The following charts compare the percentage of the Company's freight revenues derived from merchandise transportation, including per merchandise business in 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

2015 Merchandise revenues 

2014 Merchandise revenues 

2013 Merchandise revenues 

Merchandise products move in trains of mixed freight and in a variety of car types. Service involves delivering products to many different customers and destinations. In addition to traditional rail service, CP moves merchandise traffic through a network of truck-rail transload facilities and provides logistics services. 

Forest Products 

The Company&#8217;s Forest products business represented approximately 11% of merchandise revenues, which is 4% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Forest products traffic includes wood pulp, paper, paperboard, newsprint, lumber, panel and oriented strand board shipped from key producing areas in B.C., northern Alberta, northern Saskatchewan, Ontario and Quebec to destinations throughout North America. 

Chemicals and Plastics 

The Company&#8217;s Chemicals and plastics business represented approximately 30% of merchandise revenues, which is 11% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Petroleum products represent the largest segment of this business, followed by chemicals and plastics. 

Petroleum products consist of commodities such as liquefied petroleum gas (&#8220;LPG&#8221;), gasoline, diesel, condensate, asphalt and lubricant oils. The majority of the Company&#8217;s Western Canadian petroleum products traffic originates in Saskatchewan and in the Alberta Industrial Heartland, Canada&#8217;s largest hydrocarbon processing region. The Bakken formation region in Saskatchewan and North Dakota is another source of condensate, LPG and natural gas liquids. Interchange with several rail interline partners gives the Company access to refineries and export facilities in the Pacific Northwest, Northeast U.S. and Gulf Coast, as well as the Texas and Louisiana petrochemical corridor and port connections. 

The Company&#8217;s chemical traffic includes products such as ethylene glycol, styrene, sulphuric acid, methanol, sodium chlorate, caustic soda and soda ash. These shipments originate from Eastern Canada, Alberta, the U.S. Midwest and the Gulf of Mexico and move to end markets in Canada, the U.S. and overseas. 

The most commonly shipped plastics products are polyethylene and polypropylene. Almost half of the Company&#8217;s plastics originate in central and northern Alberta and move to various North American destinations. 

Crude 

The Company&#8217;s Crude business represented approximately 17% of merchandise revenues, which is 6% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Crude moves from production facilities throughout Alberta, Saskatchewan and North Dakota. CP has connections to these production facilities as well as access to pipeline terminals. Oil sands products originating in northern Alberta are delivered by pipeline systems to hub terminals in Edmonton, Hardisty and the Alberta Industrial Heartland, where rail and pipeline are the options for onward transportation. CP connects to numerous Saskatchewan oil-producing regions, including ones in Shaunavon, Lloydminster, Kerrobert and the Bakken formation, and CP has numerous facilities in the North Dakota Bakken oil-producing region. 

CP&#8217;s main crude unloading destination terminal is located in Albany, New York. This terminal is a rail-to-vessel operation that can reach refineries along the Canadian and U.S. East Coast, and the U.S. Gulf Coast. CP also accesses other refineries and terminals on the U.S. East Coast, Gulf Coast and West Coast through established interline partnerships. 

Metals, Minerals and Consumer Products 

The Company&#8217;s Metals, minerals and consumer products business represented approximately 27% of merchandise revenues, which is 10% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

Metals, minerals and consumer products include a wide array of commodities such as aggregates, steel, consumer products and non-ferrous metals. 

Frac sand and cement are the dominant aggregates. Frac sand originates at mines located along the Company&#8217;s network in Wisconsin and moves to a diverse set of shale formations across North America. The majority of the Company&#8217;s cement traffic is shipped directly from production facilities in Alberta, Iowa and Ontario to energy and construction projects in North Dakota, Alberta, Manitoba and the U.S. Midwest. 

CP transports steel in various forms from mills in Ontario, Saskatchewan and Iowa to a variety of industrial users. The Company carries base metals such as copper, lead, zinc and aluminum. CP also moves ores from mines to smelters and refineries for processing, and the processed metal to automobile and consumer products manufacturers. 

Consumer products traffic consists of a diverse mix of goods, including food products, building materials, packaging products and waste products. 

Automotive 

The Company&#8217;s Automotive business represented approximately 15% of merchandise revenues, which is 5% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

CP&#8217;s automotive portfolio consists of four finished vehicle traffic segments: import vehicles that move through Port Metro Vancouver to Eastern Canadian markets; Canadian-produced vehicles that ship to the U.S. from Ontario production facilities; U.S.-produced vehicles that ship within the U.S. as well as cross-border into Canadian markets; and Mexican-produced vehicles that ship to the U.S. and Canada. In addition to finished vehicles, CP ships automotive parts, machinery and pre-owned vehicles. A comprehensive network of automotive compounds is utilized to facilitate final delivery of vehicles to dealers throughout Canada and in the U.S. 

INTERMODAL 

The Company&#8217;s intermodal business represented approximately 20% of total freight revenues in 2015. 

The following charts compare the percentage of the Company's freight revenues derived from intermodal transportation, including the percentage of revenues generated from domestic and international intermodal transportation in 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

2015 Intermodal revenues 

2014 Intermodal revenues 

2013 Intermodal revenues 

Domestic intermodal freight consists primarily of manufactured consumer products moved in 53-foot containers within North America. International intermodal freight moves in marine containers to and from ports and North American inland markets. 

Domestic Intermodal 

The Company&#8217;s Domestic intermodal business represented approximately 56% of intermodal revenues, which is 12% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

CP&#8217;s Domestic intermodal business moves goods from a broad spectrum of industries including food, retail, less-than truckload, trucking and forest products as well as various other consumer-related products. Key service factors in domestic intermodal include consistent on-time delivery, the ability to provide door-to-door service and the availability of value-added services. The majority of the Company&#8217;s Domestic intermodal business originates in Canada where CP markets its services directly to retailers, providing complete door-to-door service and maintaining direct relationships with its customers. In the U.S., the Company&#8217;s service is delivered mainly through wholesalers. 

International Intermodal 

The Company&#8217;s International intermodal business represented approximately 44% of intermodal revenues, which is 9% &#32;of total freight revenues in 2015. 

CP&#8217;s International intermodal business consists primarily of containerized traffic moving between the ports of Vancouver, Montreal and New York and inland points across Canada and the U.S. Import traffic from the Port Metro Vancouver is mainly long-haul business destined for Eastern Canada and the U.S. Midwest and Northeast. The Company&#8217;s trans-Pacific service offers the shortest route between the Port Metro Vancouver and Chicago. CP works closely with the Port of Montreal, a major year-round East Coast gateway to Europe, to serve markets primarily in Canada and the U.S. Midwest. The Company&#8217;s U.S. Northeast service connects Eastern Canada with the Port of New York, offering a competitive alternative to trucks. 

Fuel Cost Recovery Program 

The short-term volatility in fuel prices may adversely or positively impact revenues. CP employs a fuel cost recovery program designed to automatically respond to fluctuations in fuel prices and help reduce volatility to changing fuel prices. Fuel surcharge revenues are earned on individual shipments primarily based on On Highway Diesel; as such, fuel surcharge revenue is a function of freight volumes. Fuel surcharge revenues accounted for approximately 4% of the Company's total freight revenues in 2015. 

Non-freight Revenues 

Non-freight revenues accounted for approximately 2% of the Company&#8217;s total revenues in 2015. Non-freight revenues are generated from leasing certain assets, switching fees, other arrangements including logistical services and contracts with passenger service operators. 

Significant Customers 

For each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, no customer comprised more than 10% of total revenues or accounts receivable. 

Competition 

The Company is subject to competition from other railways, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Price is only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transportation service provider. Service is another factor and requirements, both in terms of transit time and reliability, vary by shipper and commodity. As a result, the Company&#8217;s primary competition varies by commodity, geographic location and mode of available transportation. CP&#8217;s primary rail competitors are Canadian National Railway Company (&#8220;CN&#8221;), which operates throughout much of the Company&#8217;s territory in Canada and Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (&#8220;BNSF&#8221;), which operates throughout much of the Company&#8217;s territory in the U.S. Midwest. Other railways also operate in parts of the Company&#8217;s territory. Depending on the specific market, competing railroads and deregulated motor carriers may exert pressure on price and service levels. 

Seasonality 

Volumes and revenues from certain goods are stronger during different periods of the year. First-quarter revenues are typically lower mainly due to winter weather conditions, closure of the Great Lakes ports and reduced transportation of retail goods. Second and third-quarter revenues generally improve over the first quarter as fertilizer volumes are typically highest during the second quarter and demand for construction-related goods is generally highest in the third quarter. Revenues are typically strongest in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of the transportation of grain after the harvest, fall fertilizer programs and increased demand for retail goods moved by rail. Operating income is also affected by seasonal fluctuations. Operating income is typically lowest in the first quarter due to lower freight revenue and higher operating costs associated with winter conditions. Net income is also influenced 

by seasonal fluctuations in customer demand and weather-related issues. 

Regulations 

Government Regulation 

The Company&#8217;s railway operations are subject to extensive federal laws, regulations and rules in both Canada and the U.S., which directly affect how operations and business activities are managed. 

Operations are subject to economic and safety regulation in Canada primarily by the Canadian Transportation Agency (&#8220;the Agency&#8221;), Transport Canada, the CTA and the Railway Safety Act (&#8220;RSA&#8221;). The CTA provides shipper rate and service remedies, including final offer arbitration, competitive line rates and compulsory inter-switching in Canada. The Agency regulates the MRE for the movement of export grain, commuter and passenger access, charges for ancillary services and noise-related disputes. Transport Canada regulates safety-related aspects of railway operations in Canada. 

The Company&#8217;s U.S. operations are subject to economic and safety regulation by the Surface Transportation Board (&#8220;STB&#8221;) and the Federal Railroad Administration (&#8220;FRA&#8221;). The STB is an economic regulatory body with jurisdiction over railroad rate and service issues and reviewing proposed railroad mergers and other transactions. The FRA regulates safety-related aspects of the Company&#8217;s railway operations in the U.S. under the Federal Railroad Safety Act, as well as rail portions of other safety statutes. 

Various other regulators directly and indirectly affect the Company&#8217;s operations in areas such as health, safety, security, environmental and other matters. 

Regulatory Change 

On May 29, 2014, the Government of Canada enacted the Fair Rail for Grain Farmers Act (the &#8220;Fair Rail Act&#8221;). This legislation authorizes the federal cabinet to require the Company and CN to move a minimum amount of grain, which amount is determined by and may be adjusted by the federal cabinet. There is currently no minimum grain volume required by the federal cabinet. In addition, the Fair Rail Act expands the terms and conditions associated with the inter-switching provisions of the CTA in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, provides that the Agency make regulations specifying what constitutes operational terms that may be subject to service agreement arbitration, and gives the Agency the power to order a railway to compensate any person who has incurred expenses because of a failure to meet obligations under Sections 113 and 114 of the CTA, or does not meet its obligations under the terms of a confidential contract that includes a compensation clause. Further, the Fair Rail Act amends the Canada Grain Act to permit the regulation of contracts relating to grain and the arbitration of disputes respecting the provisions of those contracts. 

After the tragic accident in Lac-M&#233;gantic, Quebec in July of 2013 involving a non-related short-line railroad, the Government of Canada implemented several measures pursuant to the Rail Safety Act (Canada) and the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act (Canada). These modifications implemented changes with respect to rules associated with securing unattended trains, the classification of crude being imported, handled, offered for transport or transported, and the provision of information to municipalities through which dangerous goods are transported by rail. The U.S. federal government has taken similar actions. These changes did not have a material impact on CP&#8217;s operating practices. 

On February 20, 2015, the Government of Canada introduced Bill C-52 &#8220;An Act to amend the CTA and the RSA&#8221;, which received Royal Assent on June 18, 2015 to come into force upon a date set by Order of Council. Bill C-52 sets out new minimum insurance requirements for federally regulated railways based on: amounts of crude and toxic inhalation hazards/poisonous inhalation hazards moved; imposes strict liability; limits railway liability to the minimum insurance level; mandates the creation of a fund of $250 million paid for by crude shippers, to be utilized for damages beyond $1 billion (in respect of CP); allows railways and insurers to have existing rights to pursue other parties (subrogation); and prevents shifting liability to shippers from railways except through written agreement. It is too soon for the Company to determine the impact that these amendments to the CTA and the RSA will have on the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results from operations. 

On May 1, 2015, the U.S. Transportation Secretary announced the final rule for new rail tank car standard for flammable liquids and the retrofitting schedule for older tank cars used to transport flammable liquids. The development of the new tank car standard was done in coordination between Transport Canada, the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (&#8220;PHMSA&#8221;) and the FRA. This announcement was followed by publishing the new tank car standard in Canada on May 20, 2015. The new tank car standards require new tanks used to move flammable liquids to have: top-fitting protection; thermal protection including a jacket; the use of 9/16 inch normalized steel for the tank car; full head shield; and improved bottom outlet valves. In the U.S. the new standards also included new operational protocols for trains transporting large volumes of flammable liquids such as the use of electronically controlled pneumatic (&#8220;ECP&#8221;) brakes for trains carrying 70 or more cars of flammable liquids, routing requirements, speed restrictions, and information for local government agencies. The U.S. rule also provides new sampling and testing requirements for the classification of energy products placed into transport. In Canada, operational protocols such as speed restrictions to 40 miles per hour in census metropolitan areas, crude sampling and testing requirements, and sharing information with municipal first responders, had previously been implemented. CP does not own any tank cars used for commercial transportation of hazardous commodities. 

On October 29, 2015, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 was signed into law. The law extends, by three years, the deadline for the U.S. rail industry to implement Positive Train Control (&#8220;PTC&#8221;), a set of highly advanced technologies designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, speed-related derailments, and other accidents caused by human error by determining the precise location, direction and speed of trains, warning train operators of potential problems, and taking immediate action if an operator does not respond. Legislation passed by the U.S. Congress in 2008 mandated that PTC systems be put into service by the end of 2015 on rail lines used to transport passengers or toxic-by-inhalation materials. The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 extended the deadline to install and activate PTC to December 31, 2018, allowing the Company additional time to ensure safe and effective implementation of PTC on its rail network. 

For further details on the capital expenditures associated with compliance with the PTC regulatory mandate, refer to Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

On December 4, 2015 the Fixing America&#8217;s Surface Transportation (&#8220;FAST&#8221;) Act was signed into law, representing the first long-term transportation legislation enacted in the U.S. in over a decade. The FAST Act contains key provisions on safety enhancements for tank cars moving flammable liquids in the U.S. and ECP train braking. Among those key provisions, the FAST Act requires new tank cars to be equipped with thermal blankets, requires all legacy DOT-111 tank cars moving flammable liquids to be upgraded to new retrofit standards(regardless of how many cars may be in a train), and sets minimum requirements for protection of certain valves. While the law preserves PHMSA&#8217;s May 2015 final rule mandating ECP brakes on certain trains, it requires an independent evaluation of this braking technology and a real-world derailment test. The FAST Act further calls for the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to re-evaluate its ECP final rule within the next two years using the results of this evaluation to determine whether ECP braking system requirements are justified. 

Finally, the STB Reauthorization Act of 2015 was signed into law on December 18, 2015. The law requires numerous changes to the structure and composition of the STB, removing it from under the Department of Transportation and establishing the STB as an independent U.S. agency, as well as increasing STB Board membership from three to five members. Notably, the law vests in the STB certain limited enforcement powers, by authorizing it to investigate rail carrier violations on the STB Board&#8217;s own initiative. The law also requires the STB to establish a voluntary binding arbitration process to resolve rail rate and practice disputes. It is too soon for the Company to anticipate the impact that these changes and new investigative authorities might have on CP, since the STB has yet to develop and propose rules implementing these laws. 

Environmental Laws and Regulations 

The Company&#8217;s operations and real estate assets are subject to extensive federal, provincial, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. If the Company is found to have violated such laws or regulations it could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business or operating results. In addition, in operating a railway, it is possible that releases of hazardous materials during derailments or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to human health or to the environment. Costs of remediation, damages and changes in regulations could materially affect the Company&#8217;s operating results and reputation. 

The Company has implemented a comprehensive Environmental Management System to facilitate the reduction of environmental risk. CP's Annual Corporate Operations Environmental Plan states the current environmental goals, objectives and strategies. 

Specific environmental programs are in place to address areas such as air emissions, wastewater, management of vegetation, chemicals and waste, storage tanks and fueling facilities. CP has also undertaken environmental impact assessments and risk assessments to identify, prevent and mitigate environmental risks. There is continued focus on preventing spills and other incidents that have a negative impact on the environment. There is an established Strategic Emergency Response Contractor network and spill equipment kits are located across Canada and the U.S. to ensure a rapid and efficient response in the event of an environmental incident. In addition, emergency preparedness and response plans are regularly updated and tested. 

The Company has developed an environmental audit program that comprehensively, systematically and regularly assesses the Company&#8217;s facilities for compliance with legal requirements and the Company&#8217;s policies for conformance to accepted industry standards. Included in this is a corrective action follow-up process and semi-annual review by senior management. 

CP focuses on key strategies, identifying tactics and actions to support commitments to the community. The Company&#8217;s strategies include: 

&#8226; 

protecting the environment; 

&#8226; 

ensuring compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations; 

&#8226; 

promoting awareness and training; 

&#8226; 

managing emergencies through preparedness; and 

&#8226; 

encouraging involvement, consultation and dialogue with communities along the Company&#8217;s lines. 

Security 

CP is subject to statutory and regulatory directives in Canada and the U.S. that address security concerns. CP plays a critical role in the North American transportation system. Rail lines, facilities and equipment, including railcars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Regulations by the Department of Transportation and the Department of Homeland Security in the U.S. include speed restrictions, chain of custody and security measures, which can impact service and increase costs for the transportation of hazardous materials, especially toxic inhalation hazard (&#8220;TIH&#8221;) materials. Legislative changes in Canada to the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act are expected to add new security regulatory requirements similar to those in the U.S. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of the Company&#8217;s current coverage could increase significantly, or certain coverage may not be available to the Company in the future. While CP will continue to work closely with Canadian and U.S. government agencies, future decisions by these agencies on security matters or decisions by the industry in response to security threats to the North American rail network could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or operating results. 

&#160; 

CP takes the following security measures: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

CP employs its own police service that works closely with communities, other law enforcement and government agencies to promote railway safety and infrastructure security. As a railway law enforcement agency, CP Police Services are headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, with police officers assigned to over 25 field offices responsible for railway police operations in six Canadian provinces and 14 U.S. states. CP Police Services operate on the CP rail network as well as in areas where CP has non-railway operations. 

&#8226; 

CP&#8217;s Police Communication Centre (&#8220;PCC&#8221;) operates 24 hours a day. The PCC receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, and law enforcement and other government officials, and ensures that proper emergency responders are notified as well as governing bodies. 

&#8226; 

CP&#8217;s Security Management Plan is a comprehensive, risk-based plan modelled on and developed in conjunction with the security plan prepared by the Association of American Railroads post-September 11, 2001. Under this plan, CP routinely examines and prioritizes railroad assets, physical and cyber vulnerabilities, and threats, as well as tests and revises measures to provide essential railroad security. To address cyber security risks, CP implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. The Company has also worked diligently to establish backup sites to ensure a seamless transition in the event that the Company's operating systems are the target of a cyber-attack. By doing so, CP is able maintain network fluidity. 

&#8226; 

CP security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures including employee training, engagement with our customers and training of emergency responders. 

Available Information 

CP makes available on or through its website www.cpr.ca &#32;free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Also, filings made pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and other reporting persons with respect to the Company's Common Shares are made available free of charge, through our website. Our website also contains charters for each of the committees of our Board of Directors, our corporate governance guidelines and our Code of Business Ethics. This Form 10-K and other SEC filings made by CP are also accessible through the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

The Company has included the CEO and CFO certifications regarding the Company's public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as an Exhibit to this report. 

