 Item 1. Business 

The Company 

Unless otherwise stated, the terms "we," "us," "our" and the "company" refer to Campbell Soup Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

We are a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded food and beverage products. We organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, we trace our heritage in the food business back to 1869. Our principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799. 

Background 

Our long-term goal is to build shareholder value by driving sustainable, profitable net sales growth. Guided by our purpose - Real food that matters for life&#8217;s moments , we are pursuing a dual strategy of strengthening our core businesses while expanding into faster-growing spaces. We have made a number of enterprise design and portfolio changes over the past several years in support of this strategy, including the following: 

&#8226; 

In 2016, we implemented a new enterprise design focused mainly on product categories. Under the new structure, our divisions are organized in the following segments: Americas Simple Meals and Beverages; Global Biscuits and Snacks; and Campbell Fresh; 

&#8226; 

In support of the new structure, we designed and implemented a new Integrated Global Services (IGS) organization to deliver shared services and cost savings across the company. IGS became effective at the beginning of 2016. We are also pursuing other initiatives to reduce costs and increase effectiveness, such as adopting zero-based budgeting over time. See "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information on these initiatives; and 

&#8226; 

In 2013, we acquired Bolthouse Farms and Plum. In 2014, we acquired Kelsen and divested our European simple meals business. In 2015, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Garden Fresh Gourmet. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our recent acquisitions, and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our divestiture of the European simple meals business. 

For additional information on our dual strategy of strengthening our core businesses while expanding into faster-growing spaces, see "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Reportable Segments 

We manage our businesses in three segments focused mainly on product categories. The segments are: 

&#8226; 

The Americas Simple Meals and Beverages segment includes the retail and food service businesses in the U.S., Canada and Latin America. The segment includes the following products: Campbell&#8217;s condensed and ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broth and stocks; Prego &#32;pasta sauces; Pace &#32;Mexican sauces; Campbell&#8217;s &#32;gravies, pasta, beans and dinner sauces; Swanson &#32;canned poultry; Plum food and snacks; V8 &#32;juices and beverages; and Campbell&#8217; s tomato juice; 

&#8226; 

The Global Biscuits and Snacks segment includes Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail, Arnott&#8217;s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and Kelsen cookies globally. The segment also includes the simple meals and shelf-stable beverages business in Australia and Asia Pacific; and 

&#8226; 

The Campbell Fresh segment includes Bolthouse Farms fresh carrots, carrot ingredients, refrigerated beverages and refrigerated salad dressings, Garden Fresh Gourmet salsa, hummus, dips and tortilla chips, and the U.S. refrigerated soup business. 

See also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our reportable segments. 

3 &#32; 

Ingredients and Packaging 

The ingredients and packaging materials required for the manufacture of our food products are purchased from various suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, disease and/or pests, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements, drought, water scarcity, temperature extremes, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, scarcity of organic ingredients and other factors that may be beyond our control (including natural disasters) during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, we use a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts, inventory management practices and various commodity risk management tools for most of our ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only during certain seasons, we make commitments for the purchase of such ingredients in their respective seasons. At this time, we do not anticipate any material restrictions on the availability of ingredients or packaging that would have a significant impact on our businesses. For information on the impact of inflation, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Customers 

In most of our markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through our own sales force and/or third-party brokers and distribution partners. In the U.S., Canada and Latin America, our products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. Pepperidge Farm also has a direct-store-delivery distribution model that uses independent contractor distributors. In the Asia Pacific region, our products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. We make shipments promptly after acceptance of orders. 

Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40% &#32;of our consolidated net sales in 2016, 38% &#32;in 2015 and 35% &#32;in 2014. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% &#32;of our consolidated net sales in 2016 and 2015, and 19% &#32;in 2014. All of our reportable segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. 

Trademarks and Technology 

As of September 14, 2016, we owned over 3,650 trademark registrations and applications in over 160 countries. We believe our trademarks are of material importance to our business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We believe that our principal brands, including Arnott's, Bolthouse Farms, Campbell's, Garden Fresh Gourmet, Goldfish, Kjeldsens, Pace, Pepperidge Farm, Plum, Prego, Swanson, and &#32;V8, are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. 

Although we own a number of valuable patents, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own copyrights, both registered and unregistered, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. 

Competition 

We experience worldwide competition in all of our principal products. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of generic and private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service. 

Working Capital 

For information relating to our cash flows from operations and working capital items, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Capital Expenditures 

During 2016, our aggregate capital expenditures were $341 million . We expect to spend approximately $350 million &#32;for capital projects in 2017. Major capital projects based on planned spend in 2017 include an ongoing Australian multi-pack biscuit capacity expansion project and Pepperidge Farm refrigeration system replacement projects. 

Research and Development 

During the last three fiscal years, our expenditures on research and development activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products were $124 million &#32;in 2016, $117 million &#32;in 2015, and $122 million &#32;in 2014. 

4 &#32; 

The increase from 2015 to 2016 was primarily due to increased losses on pension and postretirement benefit mark-to-market adjustments and increased costs to support long-term innovation, partially offset by benefits from cost savings initiatives. The decrease from 2014 to 2015 was primarily due to benefits from cost savings initiatives, partially offset by increased losses on pension and postretirement benefit mark-to-market adjustments. 

Regulation 

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the U.S., our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the U.S. 

Environmental Matters 

We have requirements for the operation and design of our facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of our $341 million &#32;in capital expenditures made during 2016, approximately $7 million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. We further estimate that approximately $18 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2017 will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. We believe that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. In addition, we continue to monitor existing and pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. 

Seasonality 

Demand for soup products is seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume. Sales of Kelsen products are also highest in the fall and winter months due primarily to holiday gift giving, including the Chinese New Year. Demand for our other products is generally evenly distributed throughout the year. 

Employees 

On July 31, 2016 , we had approximately 16,500 employees. 

Financial Information 

Financial information for our reportable segments and geographic areas is found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For risks attendant to our foreign operations, see &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Websites 

Our primary corporate website can be found at www.campbellsoupcompany.com . We make available free of charge at this website (under the &#8220;Investor Center &#8212; Financial Information &#8212; SEC Filings&#8221; caption) all of our reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

All websites appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only, and the information in, or accessible through, such websites is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

