 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

We are a biotechnology company seeking to develop and commercialize innovative drug candidates for the treatment of human cancers. Our most advanced drug candidate is CUDC-907, an orally-available, small molecule inhibitor of histone deacetylase, or HDAC, and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase, or PI3K enzymes. Based on findings of an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial of this molecule in patients with relapsed or refractory lymphomas or multiple myeloma, we recently initiated an open-label Phase 2 clinical trial of CUDC-907 in patients with MYC-altered relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or RR-DLBCL. We are also conducting a Phase 1 study in patients with solid tumors, including patients with nuclear protein in testis (NUT) midline carcinoma, or NMC. 

In addition, we are party to an exclusive collaboration agreement focused on immuno-oncology and selected precision oncology targets with Aurigene Discovery Technologies Limited, or Aurigene, a specialized, discovery-stage biotechnology company and wholly-owned subsidiary of Dr. Reddy&#146;s Laboratories. In October 2015, we exercised options to license the first two programs under this collaboration. The first licensed program is focused on the development of orally-available small molecule antagonists of PD-1 and VISTA pathways in the immuno-oncology field, including the development candidate designated CA-170, which is a PD-L1/VISTA 

&#160; 

antagonist. The second licensed program is focused on orally-available small molecule inhibitors of Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) in the precision oncology field, with the lead development candidate designated CA-4948. We expect to file an investigational new drug, or IND, application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and initiate Phase 1 clinical testing of CA-170 during the first half of 2016, and we expect to file an IND and initiate Phase 1 clinical testing of CA-4948 during the second half of 2016. In addition, in October 2015, we selected a third program for potential development under the collaboration, the second preclinical program within the immuno-oncology field, which is focused on evaluating small molecule antagonists with PD-1 and TIM-3 immune checkpoint pathway-targeting properties, including compounds that target PD-L1 and TIM-3. We have not yet exercised our option to license this third program. 

Our other collaborators, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, or Roche, and Genentech Inc., or Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, are commercializing Erivedge &#174; (vismodegib), a first-in-class orally-administered small molecule Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitor, in advanced basal cell carcinoma, or BCC. Roche and Genentech are also continuing Erivedge&#146;s clinical development in less severe forms of BCC, and have recently initiated clinical studies of Erivedge in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, and myelofibrosis, or MF. 

Our proprietary pipeline also includes CUDC-427, an orally-available, small molecule antagonist of inhibitor of apoptosis, or IAP proteins. In 2015, we completed the dose escalation stage in the Phase 1 clinical trial of CUDC-427 in patients with solid tumors or lymphoma. We also regained rights to our Heat Shock Protein 90, or HSP90, inhibitor CUDC-305 from Debiopharm International S.A., or Debiopharm in 2015. 

Based on our clinical development plans for our pipeline, in the near term we intend to predominantly focus our available resources on the continued development of CUDC-907, CA-170 and CA-4948. We continue to seek to collaborate with third parties for further development of our pipeline. 

Product Development Programs 

We are seeking to develop and commercialize innovative drug candidates to treat cancer. Our product development initiatives, described in the table below, are being pursued using our internal resources or through our collaborations. 

&#160;

Drug Candidate 

&#160; Primary Disease 

&#160; Collaborator/Licensee 

&#160; Current Status 

CUDC-907 &#160; Relapsed, refractory DLBCL with MYC alterations &#160; Internal development &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Solid tumors including NUT midline carcinoma &#160; Internal development &#160; Phase 1 CA-170 &#160; Cancers &#160; Aurigene &#160; Pre-IND CA-4948 &#160; Hematologic cancers &#160; Aurigene &#160; Pre-IND Erivedge &#160; Advanced BCC &#160; Genentech (Roche) &#160; Approved in US, Australia and other countries and conditional approval in the EU &#160; Preceding excision and multiple BCC &#160; Roche &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis &#160; Roche &#160; Phase 1b &#160; Myelofibrosis &#160; Roche &#160; Phase 1b CUDC-427 &#160; Advanced solid tumor &#38; lymphomas &#160; Internal development; Seeking collaborator &#160; Completed Phase 1 CUDC-305 &#160; Cancers &#160; Internal development; Seeking collaborator &#160; Completed Phase 1 &#160; 

Since our inception in 2000, substantially all of our revenues have been derived from collaborations and other agreements with third parties. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, milestone and royalty payments from Genentech accounted for $8,031,000, or 100%, $9,796,000, or 100%, and $14,233,000, or 95%, respectively, of our revenue, all of which was related to the development and commercialization of Erivedge. 

CUDC-907 

CUDC-907 was invented by Curis scientists and is an oral, dual inhibitor of Class I and II HDAC, as well as Class I PI3K enzymes. Specifically, CUDC-907 is designed to inhibit HDACs 1, 2, 3, 6 and 10 and PI3K-alpha, delta and beta isoforms. Inhibitors of HDAC enzymes can affect a number of cell functions and cancer cell viability by regulating the acetylation of both histone and non-histone substrates. Multiple inhibitors of HDACs have been approved by the U.S. FDA for treatment of hematologic malignancies. PI3 kinases are frequently activated through mutations or by receptor tyrosine kinases in many cancer types. Idelalisib, a PI3K delta inhibitor, is approved by the U.S. FDA for treatment of patients with follicular lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Concurrent inhibition of HDAC and PI3K has demonstrated synergistic effect in certain preclinical cancer models in hematological and other cancers. We have shown in preclinical models that CUDC-907 is a potent inhibitor of three isoforms of PI3K enzymes: alpha, delta and beta. Additionally, we have shown in preclinical models that CUDC-907 inhibits HDAC enzymes, resulting in significant increase in acetylation of histone and tubulin proteins. In addition to its in vitro effects, CUDC-907 has shown potent antitumor activity in a variety of hematologic tumor models such as non-Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma (including some with alterations in MYC oncogene) and multiple myeloma. 

In light of substantial unmet need for more effective therapies, in April 2015 the FDA granted CUDC-907 orphan drug designation for the treatment of relapsed, refractory DLBCL. 

In December 2015, we presented data from the completed dose escalation and ongoing expansion stages of the Phase 1 trial of CUDC-907 at the American Society of Hematology&#146;s (ASH) Annual Meeting in Orlando, FL. The Phase 1 dose escalation and expansion trial was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) and preliminary anti-cancer activity of oral CUDC-907 in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma or multiple myeloma (MM). At the time of data cut-off for the ASH presentation, a total of 72 patients had been enrolled in the trial, including 25 with RR-DLBCL. In the completed dose escalation phase, patients received CUDC-907 daily (QD, doses: 30 or 60 mg), or intermittently on twice weekly (BIW) or thrice weekly (TIW) schedules (doses: 60, 90, 120 or 150 mg) or on a 5 days on, 2 days off (5/2) schedule (dose: 60 mg). CUDC-907 dosed at 60 mg on the 5/2 schedule was determined to be the RP2D. The expansion phase of the trial is ongoing to assess the safety and tolerability of CUDC-907 at the RP2D in combination with the standard dose of rituximab. 

The data reported at ASH demonstrated that treatment with CUDC-907 resulted in complete responses, or CRs, and partial responses, or PRs, in heavily pretreated patients with RR-DLBCL, including those harboring alterations of the MYC oncogene, a poor performing sub-group for which there are no approved targeted therapies. No objective responses were observed in patients with multiple myeloma treated with single agent CUDC-907 in the Phase 1 trial. 

Out of the 25 patients with RR-DLBCL included in the ASH presentation, 18 were evaluable for response assessment per protocol at the time of data cut-off. The best responses observed in patients with RR-DLBCL were CR (3 patients), PR (5 patients) stable disease or SD (4 patients) and progressive disease or PD (6 patients). These results include 1 CR among 2 response-evaluable patients out of a total of 3 patients treated with CUDC-907 in combination with the standard dose of rituximab. The remaining 16 evaluable patients were treated with CUDC-907 monotherapy. A post hoc analysis of pathology reports and/or available tumor samples collected showed that 5 of the 8 patients with objective responses had tumors with alterations in MYC oncogene (defined as either chromosome translocations involving MYC gene locus, or gain in MYC gene copy number, or MYC 

&#160; 

protein over-expression in &#179; 40% tumor cells). MYC alterations in the tumor tissue were determined by established criteria used to identify either MYC gene aberrations (copy number gains or translocations) by fluorescent in situ hybridization, or FISH, or MYC protein expression by immunohistochemistry, or IHC. 

The most common drug related adverse events (AEs) reported in the study have been low grade (Grade 1 and 2) diarrhea, fatigue and nausea. Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) have consisted of diarrhea and hyperglycemia, and occurred on the QD, BIW and TIW schedules. No DLT occurred at the RP2D of 60 mg 5/2. Other drug-related Grade 3 or 4 AEs reported in 3 or more patients included thrombocytopenia and neutrophil decrease (hematologic AEs) as well as diarrhea, hyperglycemia and fatigue (non-hematologic AEs). 

In preclinical studies, CUDC-907 treatment of DLBCL cell lines was shown to result in complete suppression of MYC protein levels in a rapid and dose dependent manner. Additionally, anti-tumor activity was observed in multiple in vivo MYC-altered DLBCL tumor models. 

Based on the results of a Phase 1 clinical trial of CUDC-907 as discussed above, in January 2016 we initiated an open-label Phase 2 clinical trial of CUDC-907 to treat patients with RR-DLBCL whose tumor harbors alterations of the MYC oncogene. The study is designed to enroll up to 120 patients and will evaluate the safety and efficacy of CUDC-907 administered either as a monotherapy (n=60) or in combination with rituximab (n=60). Study objectives include measurement of objective response rate, progression-free survival, overall survival, duration of response, incidence and severity of adverse events and other safety parameters, and to characterize the pharmacokinetics of CUDC-907 alone and when administered in combination with rituximab. 

CUDC-907 is also being examined in a second, ongoing Phase 1 trial that is designed to investigate its activity in patients with advanced solid tumors. We have recently directed our efforts in this study to enroll patients with solid tumors with MYC involvement, including patients with NMC. 

In August 2015, we entered into an amendment of an existing agreement with The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, or LLS, dated November 2011, pursuant to which LLS agreed to provide payments supporting our ongoing development of CUDC-907, subject to the achievement of specified milestones, in amounts up to $4,000,000. Under the amendment, LLS agreed to provide advisory services regarding both the CUDC-907 and IRAK4 programs, and LLS is no longer obligated to make milestone payments related to ongoing clinical development of CUDC-907. We agreed to make up to $1,650,000 in future payments to LLS, which figure equals the aggregate payments previously received from LLS under the November 2011 agreement, pursuant to the achievement of certain objectives, including a licensing, sale, or other similar transaction, as well as regulatory and commercial objectives, in each case related to the CUDC-907 program in hematological malignancies. However, if CUDC-907 does not continue to meet its clinical safety endpoints in future clinical trials in the defined field, or fails to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, all funding provided to us by LLS will be considered a non-refundable grant. 

CA-170 

CA-170 is an oral small molecule drug candidate that is designed to selectively target PD-L1 and VISTA checkpoint proteins, both of which independently function as negative regulators of immune activation. CA-170 is being developed in collaboration with Aurigene, and in October 2015, we exercised our option to license this drug candidate and the associated program under the collaboration agreement with Aurigene. 

In November 2015, Aurigene presented preclinical data from the CA-170 program at the AACR-NCI-EORTC International Conference on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics. The data demonstrated that in in vitro studies, CA-170 potently rescued effector functions of T cells (such as cytokine secretion and proliferation) that are inhibited in the presence of PD-L1/L2 and VISTA checkpoint proteins. CA-170 demonstrated high selectivity, and was unable to rescue T cells functions in the presence of other checkpoint inhibitors such as TIM-3, CTLA4, LAG-3 and BTLA. Additionally, in multiple syngeneic mouse tumor models 

&#160; 

(such as melanoma and colon cancer), oral administration of CA-170 resulted in anti-tumor activity but no such activity was observed in immune deficient mice, suggesting that the in vivo anti-cancer effects of CA-170 require an intact immune system. 

Based on these results, and the results of extensive preclinical safety studies in mouse and monkey models, we expect to file the investigational new drug or IND application and initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial with CA-170 in patients with advanced cancers within the first half of 2016. 

CA-4948 

CA-4948 is an oral small molecule drug candidate that is designed to inhibit the IRAK4 kinase, which is an important transducer of toll-like receptor or certain interleukin receptor signaling pathways. These signaling pathways are shown to be involved in certain human cancers and inflammatory diseases. In October 2015, we exercised the option to license this program under the collaboration agreement with Aurigene. 

In November 2015, Aurigene presented preclinical data at the AACR-NCI-EORTC International Conference on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics that demonstrated potent IRAK4 inhibitory activity of CA-4948 and other molecules within this program in various biochemical assays. Additionally, anti-tumor activity of lead compounds, including CA-4948 was demonstrated in an in vivo tumor model of diffuse large B cell lymphoma that harbors mutation in the IRAK4 pathway. Lead compounds from this program were also shown to be effective in an in vivo preclinical model of acute inflammation, suggesting that CA-4948 and other program compounds have the potential for use in the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases. 

We expect to complete preclinical and toxicology studies to file an IND application for CA-4948 in the second half of 2016. 

For a further discussion of our collaboration agreement with Aurigene, see &#147;Business&#151;Our Collaborations and License Agreements&#151;Aurigene Agreement.&#148; 

Erivedge 

Erivedge &#174; is an orally bioavailable small molecule which is designed to selectively inhibit the Hedgehog signaling pathway by targeting a protein called Smoothened. The Hedgehog signaling pathway is normally active during embryonic development and unregulated activation of the pathway is believed to play a central role in allowing the proliferation and survival of cancer cells and leading to formation and maintenance of certain cancers. Genetic mutations that lead to unregulated activation of Hedgehog signaling are found in BCC and medulloblastoma. Aberrant signaling in the Hedgehog signaling pathway is implicated in over 90% of BCC cases. 

Erivedge is FDA-approved for adults with advanced forms of BCC and is being developed under a collaboration agreement with Genentech. Genentech and Roche are responsible for the clinical development and commercialization of Erivedge and it is currently marketed and sold in the U.S. Erivedge is also approved for use in the European Union, Australia and several other countries, and Roche is selling Erivedge in territories outside of the U.S. 

In January 2012, Erivedge became the first FDA-approved medicine for adults with advanced forms of BCC. In May 2013, Australia&#146;s TGA approved Erivedge for the treatment of advanced BCC. In July 2013, the European Commission granted conditional approval for the marketing of Erivedge as the first licensed treatment for patients with advanced BCC in all 28 European Union member states. This conditional approval makes Erivedge the first licensed treatment in Europe for advanced BCC. A conditional marketing authorization is granted to medicinal products with a positive benefit/risk assessment that satisfy an unmet medical need and whose availability results in a significant public health benefit. Under the provisions of the conditional approval, Roche is expected to provide additional data on Erivedge in advanced BCC from the ongoing global safety study, known as STEVIE. An interim analysis from STEVIE confirmed a similar safety and activity profile to that observed in the pivotal ERIVANCE BCC study. 

&#160; 

In addition to the regulatory and commercialization efforts in advanced BCC, Roche and Genentech are also continuing Erivedge&#146;s clinical development in less severe forms of BCC and have recently initiated clinical studies of Erivedge in other indications including in IPF and MF. 

For a further discussion of our Hedgehog collaboration agreement with Genentech, see &#147;Business&#151;Our Collaborations and License Agreements &#151;Genentech Hedgehog Signaling Pathway Collaboration Agreement.&#148; 

CUDC-427 

CUDC-427 is an oral, small molecule Smac mimetic that is designed to promote cancer cell death by antagonizing IAP proteins. In 2012, we licensed from Genentech the exclusive, worldwide rights for the development and commercialization of CUDC-427. Under the terms of the license agreement, we have the sole right and responsibility for all research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities related to CUDC-427. Genentech will be entitled to receive milestone payments upon the first commercial sale of CUDC-427 in certain territories and a tiered single digit royalty on net sales of CUDC-427, if any. 

We have completed a Phase 1 trial of CUDC-427 in which consecutive cohorts of patients according to the standard 3+3 design were treated with CUDC-427 at dose levels of 100, 200 and 300 mg daily on a 14 days on, 7 days off schedule. No dose limiting toxicities occurred on this dose and schedule. There are currently no clinical trials planned with CUDC-427. 

We currently intend to utilize our available resources for the continued development of CUDC-907 and drug candidates under our collaboration with Aurigene, including CA-170 and CA-4948. As such, we do not anticipate initiating any new clinical trials testing CUDC-427 and we are currently seeking to collaborate with third parties for further development of this molecule. 

For a further discussion of our CUDC-427 license agreement with Genentech, see &#147;Business&#151;Our Collaborations and License Agreements&#151;Genentech IAP License Agreement.&#148; 

CUDC-305 

CUDC-305 is an oral HSP90 inhibitor we discovered and previously licensed to Debiopharm for development in advanced lung cancer, designated Debio 0932. In August 2009, we granted a worldwide, exclusive, royalty-bearing license to Debiopharm to develop, manufacture, market and sell our HSP90 inhibitor technology, including Debio 0932. Debiopharm completed Phase 1 testing, as well as the Phase 1 portion of Phase 1/2 clinical trial of Debio 0932, in combination with various chemotherapy regimens in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Debiopharm reviewed data from the Phase 1 portion of this study and determined that the results were inconclusive, although safety observations were generally consistent with the previously observed side effects of Debio 0932 and/or the respective chemotherapeutic regimens administered in the trial. 

In February 2015, as amended in August 2015, we entered into a termination and transition agreement with Debiopharm, which we refer to as the transition agreement, to terminate our August 2009 license agreement. The termination of the August 2009 agreement was effective in February 2015. We have re-designated the molecule CUDC-305. There are currently no planned clinical studies with CUDC-305. 

We currently intend to utilize our available resources for the continued development of CUDC-907 and drug candidates under our collaboration with Aurigene, including CA-170 and CA-4948. As such, we do not anticipate initiating any new clinical trials testing CUDC-305 on our own and we are currently seeking to collaborate with third parties for further development of CUDC-305. 

For a further discussion of our license and termination and transition agreements with Debiopharm, see &#147;Business&#151;Our Collaborations and License Agreements&#151;Debiopharm Agreement.&#148; 

&#160; 

Our Collaborations and License Agreements 

Aurigene Collaboration Agreement 

Collaboration Overview. On January 18, 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Aurigene for the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule compounds in the areas of immuno-oncology and precision oncology, which we refer to as the Aurigene agreement. Under the Aurigene agreement, Aurigene has granted us an exclusive option to obtain an exclusive, royalty-bearing license to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds from such program, including the development candidate and products containing such compounds, anywhere in the world with the exception of India and Russia. Upon our exercise of the option for a particular program, Aurigene will grant us the royalty-bearing license described above for each licensed program, and we will grant Aurigene an exclusive, royalty-free, fully paid license under our relevant technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds from such program and products containing such compounds in India and Russia. 

There are currently three programs under this collaboration, including two programs targeting immune checkpoint regulators and one program targeting the IRAK4 kinase. In October 2015, we exercised options to license the first two programs under this collaboration. The first licensed program is focused on the development of orally-available small molecule antagonists of the PD-1 and VISTA pathways in the immuno-oncology field, with the development candidate designated CA-170, which targets PD-L1 and VISTA. The second licensed program is focused on orally-available small molecule inhibitors of IRAK4 in the precision oncology field, with the development candidate designated CA-4948. The third program in the collaboration, for which we have not yet exercised our option, is focused on evaluating small molecule antagonists of the PD-1 and TIM-3 immune checkpoint pathways, including compounds that target PD-L1 and TIM-3. We expect to file an IND and initiate Phase 1 clinical testing of CA-170 during the first half of 2016 and to file an IND and initiate Phase 1 clinical testing of CA-4948 inhibitor during the second half of 2016. 

For each program with respect to which we exercise the option to license, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize at least one product in each of the U.S., specified countries in the European Union, and Japan, and Aurigene is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to perform its obligations under the development plan for such licensed program in an expeditious manner. 

Subject to specified exceptions, we and Aurigene have agreed to work exclusively with each other on the discovery, research, development and commercialization of programs and compounds within immuno-oncology for approximately two years from the effective date of the collaboration agreement. At our option, and subject to specified conditions, we may extend such exclusivity for up to three additional one-year periods by paying to Aurigene exclusivity option fees on an annual basis. 

In addition, beyond the up-to five years of exclusivity described above, and subject to specified exceptions, we and Aurigene have agreed to work exclusively with each other on each program for which there are ongoing activities in research or development, or for which we have exercised our option to exclusively license (as described above) and we or our affiliates or sublicensees are actively developing or commercializing a compound or product from such program in a major market, subject to our payment of an annual exclusivity fee on a program-by-program basis. 

For each product that may be commercialized, we have granted Aurigene the right, subject to certain conditions, to nominate one global supplier of drug substance or drug product to provide up to 50% of the total requirements in our territory. 

Up-front Equity Issuance . In connection with the collaboration agreement, we issued to Aurigene 17,120,131 shares of our common stock valued at $23,968,000 in partial consideration for the rights granted to us under the collaboration agreement, which we recognized as expense during the year ended December 31, 2015. The shares were issued pursuant to a stock purchase agreement with Aurigene dated January 18, 2015. 

&#160; 

Research Payments, Option Exercise Fees and Milestone Payments . We have agreed to make the following research payments, option exercise fees and milestone payments to Aurigene: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; for each of the first two programs: up to $52,500,000 per program, comprised of: $3,000,000 for each option exercise, which we incurred and paid during the fourth quarter of 2015, $3,000,000 upon acceptance of each IND filing, and $4,000,000 upon dosing of the fifth patient in our first Phase 1 clinical trial for each program; as well as specified approval and commercial milestones, plus specified additional payments for approvals for additional indications, if any. Effective October 2015, we agreed to make additional payments to Aurigene totaling up to $2,000,000 for supplemental research, development and/or manufacturing activities in support of these two programs, of which we paid $1,000,000 in February 2016 related to expenses Aurigene incurred in 2015; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; for the third and fourth programs: up to $50,000,000 per program, comprised of: $2,000,000 for a program selection fee that we paid in May 2015 for the third program, $3,000,000 for an option exercise fee if we license the program, and $2,500,000 upon acceptance of an IND filing, as well as specified approval and commercial milestones, plus specified additional payments for approvals for additional indications, if any; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; for any program thereafter: up to $140,500,000 per program, comprised of: up to a total of $53,000,000 for research fees, an option exercise fee, a preclinical milestone and development milestones, as well as specified filing, approval and commercial milestones, plus specified additional payments for approvals for additional indications, if any. 

Royalties on Net Sales by Curis . We have agreed to pay Aurigene tiered royalties on our and our affiliates&#146; annual net sales of products at percentage rates ranging from the high single digits up to 10%, subject to specified reductions. 

Amounts that we receive from Sublicensees . We have agreed to make the following payments to Aurigene upon our entry into sublicense agreements on any program(s): 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; with respect to amounts that we and our affiliates receive from sublicensees under a licensed program in the U.S. or the European Union, a declining percentage of non-royalty sublicense revenues which is dependent on the stage of the most advanced product for such licensed program at the time the sublicense is granted, including, for example 25% of such amounts following our initiation of a Phase 2 clinical study and 15% of such amounts after initiation of the first pivotal study. This sharing will also extend to royalties that we receive from sublicensees, subject to minimum royalty percentage rates that we are obligated to pay to Aurigene, which generally range from mid-to-high single-digit royalty percentage rates up to 10%; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; with respect to sublicensing revenues we and our affiliates receive from sublicensees under a licensed program in Asia, 50% of such sublicensing revenues, including both non-royalty sublicensee revenues and royalties that we receive from sublicensees; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; with respect to non-royalty sublicensing revenues we and our affiliates receive from sublicensees under a licensed program outside of the U.S., the European Union and Asia, a percentage of such non-royalty sublicense revenues ranging from 30% to 50%. We are also obligated to share 50% of royalties that we receive from sublicensees that we receive in these territories. 

Our royalty payment obligations (including those on sales by sublicensees) under the collaboration agreement with respect to a product in a country will expire on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis on the later of: (i) expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of the Aurigene patents covering the manufacture, use or sale of such product in such country; and (ii) 10 years from the first commercial sale of such product in such country. 

Term and Termination. The term of the collaboration agreement begins upon signing and, unless earlier terminated, will expire upon either: (i) 90 days after the completion by Aurigene of its obligations under all 

&#160; 

research plans if we have not exercised the option with respect to at least one program by such time; or (ii) expiration of the last-to-expire royalty term for any and all products. Upon expiration (but not on earlier termination) of the collaboration agreement, all licenses granted by Aurigene to us that were in effect immediately prior to such expiration shall survive on a non-exclusive, royalty-free, fully paid, irrevocable, perpetual basis. 

The collaboration agreement may be terminated, either in its entirety or with respect to a particular program, by either Aurigene or us for uncured material breach by the other party, other than an uncured material breach by the other party of its diligence obligations with respect to a program or licensed program. If an uncured material breach other than a diligence breach relates to a particular program or licensed program, the non-breaching party may terminate the collaboration agreement only with respect to that program or licensed program. However, after initiation of the first pivotal clinical trial of a product for a licensed program, Aurigene may not terminate the collaboration agreement with respect to such licensed program for an uncured non diligence breach by us, except in the case of our uncured material breach of our payment obligations with respect to such licensed program, but Aurigene may pursue any and all remedies that may be available to it at law or in equity as a result of such breach. Similarly, after initiation of the first pivotal clinical trial of a product for a licensed program, we may not terminate the collaboration agreement with respect to the license we have granted Aurigene for the its territory or India and Russia for such licensed program for an uncured non diligence breach by Aurigene, but we may pursue any and all remedies that may be available to us at law or in equity as a result of such breach. 

On a program-by-program basis, we may terminate the collaboration agreement as it relates to a program or licensed program for an uncured breach by Aurigene with respect to such program or licensed program, and Aurigene may terminate the collaboration agreement as it relates to a licensed program for an uncured breach by us with respect to such licensed program. 

In addition, we may terminate the collaboration agreement in its entirety or as it relates to a particular program or licensed program or on a country-by-country basis, for any reason or for no reason at any time upon 60 days&#146; prior written notice to Aurigene. 

In the event of termination of the collaboration agreement in its entirety before we have exercised the option for any program, or termination of the collaboration agreement as it relates to any program prior to exercise of the option for such program, all rights and licenses granted by either Aurigene or us to the other party with respect to such program under the collaboration agreement (including the option for such program) will automatically terminate. 

If the royalty term with respect to a product for any licensed program in any country has expired on or before any termination of the collaboration agreement in its entirety or as to such licensed program, the license granted by Aurigene to us with respect to such product in such country, as well as the corresponding license granted to Aurigene in its territory, shall survive such termination of the Collaboration Agreement. 

Solely in the event of termination of the collaboration agreement by Aurigene for our uncured breach, or our termination of the collaboration agreement for convenience, the following will apply to any program that was a licensed program immediately prior to such termination: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our license with respect to any licensed program that is not a terminated program (defined below), either in our entire territory or in countries within our territory outside of the terminated region (defined below), as applicable, shall continue in full force and effect, subject to all terms and conditions of the collaboration agreement, including our payment obligations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our license with respect to any terminated program, either in our entire territory or in the terminated region, as applicable, shall terminate and revert to Aurigene; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we will grant Aurigene a perpetual, royalty-free (except for pass-through royalties and milestone payments payable by us under licenses to third party patent rights with respect to products developed or 

&#160; 

&#160; commercialized by or on behalf of Aurigene) license, with the right to sublicense, under our relevant patent rights and other technology solely to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds and products for any terminated program, either in our entire territory or in the terminated region, as applicable. The foregoing license will be non-exclusive with respect to our patent rights and exclusive with respect to our other technology; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we will grant to Aurigene a right of first negotiation, exercisable within 90 days after termination, to obtain an exclusive, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, under our relevant patent rights solely to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds and products for any terminated program, either in our entire territory or in the terminated region, as applicable, upon commercially reasonable terms and conditions to be negotiated in good faith by the parties; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we will perform other specified activities and actions reasonably necessary for Aurigene to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds and products for any terminated program, either in our entire territory or in the terminated region, as applicable; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the applicable license to Aurigene will survive termination. 

For purposes of the foregoing, &#147;terminated program&#148; means: (i) in the case of termination of the collaboration agreement in its entirety by Aurigene for our uncured non diligence breach, any program that was a licensed program immediately prior to such termination, but excluding, except in the case of our uncured material breach of our payment obligations with respect to such licensed program, any such licensed program for which initiation of the first pivotal clinical trial of a product has occurred prior to such termination; (ii) in the case of any termination of the collaboration agreement as to a particular licensed program by Aurigene either for our uncured non diligence breach (to the extent termination as to such licensed program is permitted) or our uncured diligence breach, such licensed program; (iii) in the case of our termination of the collaboration agreement in its entirety for convenience, any program that was a licensed program immediately prior to such termination; or (iv) in the case of our termination of the collaboration agreement as to a particular licensed program for convenience, such licensed program; provided, however, that, in the case of the preceding clauses (iii) and (iv), if our termination of the collaboration agreement in its entirety or as to a particular licensed program for convenience was with respect only to a particular country or subset of countries within the entire territory (as applicable, a &#147;terminated region&#148;), the applicable licensed program(s) shall be considered &#147;terminated program(s)&#148; only in the terminated region but shall remain licensed program(s) in the rest of our territory. 

Genentech Hedgehog Signaling Pathway Collaboration Agreement 

In 2003, we entered into a collaborative research, development and license agreement with Genentech, which we refer to as the collaboration agreement. 

Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Genentech, we granted Genentech an exclusive, global, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, to make, use, sell and import molecules capable of inhibiting the Hedgehog signaling pathway (including small molecules, proteins and antibodies) for human therapeutic applications, including cancer therapy. Genentech subsequently granted a sublicense to Roche for non-U.S. rights to Erivedge. In February 2010, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Chugai, exercised its right of first refusal for the development and commercialization of Erivedge in Japan pursuant to an existing agreement between Roche and Chugai. 

Genentech and Roche have primary responsibility for worldwide clinical development, regulatory affairs, manufacturing and supply, formulation and sales and marketing. We are eligible to receive up to $115,000,000 in contingent cash payments for the development of Erivedge or another small molecule, assuming the successful achievement by Genentech and Roche of specified clinical development and regulatory objectives, of which we have received $59,000,000 to date. We are also eligible to receive royalties on sales of any Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitor products that are successfully commercialized by Genentech and Roche. Future royalty 

&#160; 

payments related to Erivedge will service the outstanding debt and accrued interest owed by Curis Royalty to BioPharma-II, up to the quarterly caps for 2015, and until the debt is fully repaid thereafter. 

Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement, our subsidiary Curis Royalty is entitled to receive royalties on net sales of Erivedge that range from 5% to 7.5% based upon global Erivedge sales by Roche and Genentech, subject to reduction under specified circumstances, including when a competing product that binds to the same molecular target as Erivedge is approved by the applicable regulatory authority and is being sold in such country by a third party for use in the same indication as Erivedge or when there is no issued intellectual property covering Erivedge in a territory in which sales are recorded. During 2015, the FDA and CHMP approved an additional Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitor sonidegib, developed by Novartis for the treatment of adults with locally advanced BCC. Genentech has advised us that Novartis recorded sales of sonidegib in the United States during the fourth quarter of 2015 and, accordingly, Genentech reduced royalties to Curis Royalty on its net sales in the United States of Erivedge by 2% during the fourth quarter of 2015. 

In November 2012, in connection with a $30,000,000 loan made by BioPharma-II, a Luxembourg limited liability company managed by Pharmakon Advisors, to our subsidiary Curis Royalty, we transferred to Curis Royalty our rights to receive (i) royalty payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge owed by Genentech under our collaboration agreement, (ii) certain other royalty-related payments, if any, including amounts owed by Genentech with respect to the underpayment of royalties and accrued interest on payments which are not timely made by Genentech pursuant to the collaboration agreement and (iii) any payments made by Genentech to Curis pursuant to Genentech&#146;s indemnification obligations under the collaboration agreement. 

The loan from BioPharma-II, which bears interest at an annual rate of 12.25%, will be repaid by Curis Royalty from the proceeds of the royalty and royalty-related payments that it receives from time to time from Genentech. Quarterly royalty and royalty-related payments from Genentech will first be applied to pay (i) escrow fees payable by Curis pursuant to an escrow agreement between Curis, Curis Royalty, BioPharma-II and Boston Private Bank and Trust Company, (ii) Curis&#146; royalty obligations to university licensors, as described below, (iii) certain expenses incurred by BioPharma-II in connection with the credit agreement and related transaction documents, including enforcement of its rights in the case of an event of default under the credit agreement and (iv) expenses incurred by Curis enforcing its right to indemnification under the collaboration agreement with Genentech. Remaining amounts will be applied first, to pay interest and second, principal on the loan. In addition, if Erivedge royalties are insufficient to pay the accrued interest on the outstanding loan, the unpaid interest outstanding will be added to the principal on a quarterly basis. As a result, we will continue to record royalty revenue from Genentech but expect such revenues will be used to pay down the loan received from BioPharma-II until it is repaid in full. As of December 31, 2015, the balance of principal plus accrued interest on the loan to Curis Royalty, including issuance costs, was $24,502,000. We currently estimate that the loan will be repaid in 2019; however, this estimate is impacted by numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our estimate may not be indicative of when this loan would actually be repaid. The repayment term may be shortened or extended depending on the actual level of Erivedge royalties. In addition, if Erivedge royalties are insufficient to pay the accrued interest on the outstanding loan, the unpaid interest outstanding will be added to the principal on a quarterly basis. The length of the actual repayment period could vary materially to the extent that royalty payments Curis Royalty receives are lower than our current estimates, which could arise due to factors beyond our control, such as the sale of competing products that result in a lowering of the royalty rates that Curis Royalty is entitled to receive, decreased market acceptance or a failure by Genentech and/or Roche to successfully commercialize Erivedge in territories where it has received regulatory approval, and other factors described under &#147;Part I, Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors.&#148; 

We are also obligated to make payments to university licensors on royalties that we earn in all territories (except Australia) in an amount that is equal to 5% of the royalty payments that we receive from Genentech for a period of 10 years from the first commercial sale of Erivedge, which occurred in February 2012. For royalties that we earn from Roche&#146;s sales of Erivedge in Australia, we will be obligated to make payments to university licensors of 2% of Roche&#146;s direct net sales in Australia until expiration of the patent in April 2019, after which 

&#160; 

the amount will decrease to 5% of the royalty payments that we receive from Genentech for the remainder of the period ending 10 years from the first commercial sale of Erivedge, or February 2022. 

Unless terminated earlier, the collaboration agreement will expire six months after the later of the expiration of Genentech&#146;s obligation to pay royalties to us under the agreement or such time as no activities have occurred under the agreement for a period of twelve months. The collaboration agreement may be terminated earlier by either party for cause upon sixty days prior written notice. In addition, Genentech may terminate the agreement, either in whole or in part, without cause, upon six months prior written notice. In the event of any termination where specific license grants survive, we will continue to have the right to receive clinical development and regulatory approval milestones and royalties on product sales for such licensed compound, if any. If we terminate the agreement for cause or Genentech terminates the agreement without cause, all licenses granted to Genentech automatically terminate and revert to us. In addition, Genentech has agreed that it will no longer conduct any development or commercialization activities on any compounds identified in the course of conducting activities under the research plan for the agreement for so long as such compounds continue to be covered by valid patent claims. 

In addition to the regulatory and commercialization efforts in advanced BCC, Roche and Genentech are also continuing Erivedge&#146;s clinical development in less severe forms of BCC and have recently initiated clinical studies of Erivedge in other diseases including in IPF and MF. The details of these studies can be found at www.clinicaltrials.gov. 

Genentech IAP License Agreement 

In 2012, we licensed from Genentech the exclusive, worldwide rights for the development and commercialization of CUDC-427, an oral, small molecule Smac mimetic that is designed to promote cancer cell death by antagonizing IAP proteins. Under the terms of the license agreement, we have the sole right and responsibility for all research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities related to CUDC-427. Genentech will be entitled to receive milestone payments upon the first commercial sale of CUDC-427 in certain territories and a tiered single digit royalty on net sales of CUDC-427, if any. The license agreement will continue to be in effect until expiration of all royalty payment obligations with respect to any product, unless earlier terminated by either party as described below. Upon satisfaction of all such royalty payment obligations, the Company&#146;s license would become royalty-free, fully paid-up, irrevocable and perpetual. 

We have completed a Phase 1 trial of CUDC-427 in which consecutive cohorts of patients according to the standard 3+3 design were treated with CUDC-427 at dose levels of 100, 200 and 300 mg daily on a 14 days on, 7 days off schedule. No dose limiting toxicities occurred on this dose and schedule. 

We currently intend to utilize our available resources for the continued development of CUDC-907 and drug candidates under our collaboration with Aurigene, including CA-170 and CA-4948. As such, we do not anticipate initiating any new clinical trials testing CUDC-427 and we are currently seeking to collaborate with third parties for further development of this molecule. 

Both Curis and Genentech may terminate the license agreement prior to expiration in the event of the uncured material breach of the agreement by the other party. In addition, we may terminate the license agreement prior to expiration for any reason upon 90 days&#146; prior written notice to Genentech. Upon any termination of the license agreement, the license granted to us will terminate and revert to Genentech. If Genentech terminates the license agreement for an uncured material breach by us, or if we terminate the agreement for any reason other than uncured material breach by Genentech, Genentech will be entitled to certain licenses and other rights with respect to products existing as of the date of termination, and we may, under specified circumstances, be obligated to supply products to Genentech for a limited period after termination. 

Debiopharm Agreement 

CUDC-305 is an oral HSP90 inhibitor we discovered and previously licensed to Debiopharm for development in advanced lung cancer, designated Debio 0932. In August 2009, we granted a worldwide, 

&#160; 

exclusive, royalty-bearing license to Debiopharm to develop, manufacture, market and sell our HSP90 inhibitor technology, including Debio 0932. Debiopharm completed Phase 1 testing, as well as the Phase 1 portion of Phase 1/2 clinical trial of Debio 0932, in combination with various chemotherapy regimens in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Debiopharm reviewed data from the Phase 1 portion of this study and determined that the results were inconclusive, although safety observations were generally consistent with the previously observed side effects of Debio 0932 and/or the respective chemotherapeutic regimens administered in the trial. 

In February 2015, as amended in August 2015, we entered into a termination and transition agreement with Debiopharm, which we refer to as the transition agreement, to terminate our August 2009 license agreement. The termination of the August 2009 agreement was effective as of February 2015. We have re-designated the molecule CUDC-305. 

Under the terms of the transition agreement, the licenses and all other rights related to CUDC-305 have been terminated and reverted to Curis effective as of the termination date. Debiopharm ceased enrollment in all clinical trials as of the termination date. In addition, we exercised our right, pursuant to the license agreement, to obtain a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, under other intellectual property rights of Debiopharm to develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, have sold and import CUDC-305, and Debiopharm will transfer to us the IND application related to CUDC-305. Debiopharm also assigned to us its sole patent application related to CUDC-305. 

Further under the terms of the transition agreement, Debiopharm will transition ongoing CUDC-305 development and manufacturing activities to us and will make available all necessary information generated by or on behalf of Debiopharm for us to pursue the manufacturing of CUDC-305. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we paid $750,000 to Debiopharm, primarily in consideration for Debiopharm providing drug product. 

We have agreed to pay to Debiopharm royalties at a rate of 3% of net sales by us (excluding sales by our third party sublicensees) of products containing CUDC-305, and the following percentages of amounts that we receive from third party sublicensees: (i) 10% of any royalties that we receive from third party sublicensees based on such sublicensees&#146; net sales of products containing CUDC-305; and (ii) 20% of any non-royalty sublicense payments that we receive from third party sublicensees, provided that the maximum aggregate amount payable by us to Debiopharm with respect to non-royalty sublicense payments is $30,000,000. 

We currently intend to utilize our available resources for the continued development of CUDC-907 and drug candidates under our collaboration with Aurigene, including CA-170 and CA-4948. As such, we do not anticipate initiating any new clinical trials testing CUDC-305 on our own and we are currently seeking to collaborate with third parties for further development of CUDC-305. 

Corporate Information 

We were organized as a Delaware corporation in February 2000. We began our operations in July 2000 upon the completion of the merger of Creative BioMolecules, Inc., Ontogeny, Inc. and Reprogenesis, Inc. Our principal executive office is located at 4 Maguire Road, Lexington, MA 02421 and our telephone number is (617) 503-6500. 

Curis&#153; is our trademark and Erivedge &#174; is a trademark of Genentech. This annual report on Form 10-K may also contain trademarks and trade names of others. 

Website Access to Reports 

We maintain a website with the address www.curis.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. Our website address 

&#160; 

is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any such amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, we provide paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request. We also make available on our website our corporate governance guidelines, the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee, and our code of business conduct and ethics, and such information is available in print to any stockholder of Curis who requests it. 

Intellectual Property 

Our policy is to obtain and enforce the patents and proprietary technology rights that are key to our business. We intend to continue to file U.S. and foreign patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements that are considered important to the development of our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. 

In the U.S., as of December 31, 2015, we have 93 issued or allowed patents expiring on various dates between 2016 and 2033 as well as numerous pending patent applications. We have foreign counterpart patent filings for most of our U.S. issued patents and patent applications. These patents and patent applications are directed to various inventions including compositions of matter, methods of making and using these compositions for multiple applications, methods for drug screening and discovery, developmental biological processes, and patents which relate to our proprietary technologies. 

CUDC-907 and other Targeted Drug Candidates. As of December 31, 2015, we have 27 issued or allowed U.S. patents that expire on various dates between 2027 and 2032, including patents covering the composition of matter for CUDC-907, which expires in 2032. We also have several U.S. and foreign utility patent applications directed to our novel small molecules. Our patents and patent applications cover compositions of matter, methods of manufacturing these molecules, formulations, and methods of using these molecules to treat a variety of therapeutic indications. We intend to continue to file additional U.S. and foreign applications as the programs progress. We have also exclusively licensed worldwide rights from Genentech covering CUDC-427, which includes 5 issued U.S. patents or allowed U.S. applications expiring on various dates e between 2025 and 2033. The portfolio consists of a broad filing which cover a genus of compounds which embrace CUDC-427 and their methods of use thereof, as well as a narrow filing which specifically covers CUDC-427, as well as pharmaceutical compositions and methods of use thereof. The exclusively licensed portfolio also includes rights to foreign filings corresponding to the aforementioned U.S. filings. 

CA-170, CA-4948 and Aurigene Collaboration Programs. In conjunction with the October 2015 exercise of options to license the PD-L1/VISTA and IRAK-4 programs under this collaboration, we obtained world-wide (except for India and Russia) exclusive licenses to the Aurigene intellectual property relevant to the program. The portfolio consists of filings which cover various genera of compounds from each program and methods of use thereof. As of December 31, 2015, there is one allowed U.S. patent application included in such filings. 

Erivedge and the Hedgehog Signaling Pathway . As of December 31, 2015, we have 57 issued U.S. patents or allowed U.S. applications expiring on various dates between 2016 and 2031, which relate to the Hedgehog signaling pathway, including patents covering Erivedge&#146;s composition of matter, which expires in 2028. Our patents and patent applications cover proteins, nucleic acids, antibodies, and certain small molecule agonists and 

&#160; 

inhibitors of the Hedgehog signaling pathway, drug screening and discovery methods, methods of protein manufacturing, as well as methods of using the aforementioned proteins, nucleic acids, antibodies or small molecules to activate or inhibit the Hedgehog signaling pathway for a variety of therapeutic indications or diagnostic uses. In addition, we have filed foreign patent applications corresponding to many of the aforementioned U.S. filings that could provide additional patent protection for products that activate or inhibit the Hedgehog signaling pathway. 

Our academic and research institution collaborators have certain rights to publish data and information regarding their discoveries to which we have rights. While we believe that the prepublication access to the data developed by our collaborators pursuant to our collaboration agreements will be sufficient to permit us to apply for patent protection in the areas in which we are interested in pursuing further research, there is considerable pressure on such institutions to rapidly publish discoveries arising from their efforts. This may affect our ability to obtain patent protection in the areas in which we may have an interest. In addition, these collaboration agreements typically contain provisions that provide us with, at a minimum, an option to license the institution&#146;s rights to intellectual property arising from the collaboration. 

We are party to various license agreements that give us rights to commercialize various technologies, particularly our Hedgehog signaling pathway technologies, and to use technologies in our research and development processes. The consideration payable in exchange for these licenses includes up-front fees, issuances of shares of common stock, annual royalties, milestone payments and royalties on net sales by our sub-licensees and us. The licensors may terminate these agreements if we fail to meet certain diligence requirements, fail to make payments or otherwise commit a material breach that is not cured after notice. 

In addition, we depend upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators, upon commencement of a relationship with us, to execute confidentiality agreements and, in the case of parties other than our research and development collaborators, to agree to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed in connection with their relationship to us. 

Research and Development Program 

As of December 31, 2015, our research and development group consisted of 31 employees, including oncologists, molecular biologists, cell biologists, chemists, pharmacologists and other clinical or scientific disciplines who seek to identify and develop new applications for our existing proprietary portfolio. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred expenses of $26,699,000, $13,659,000 and $12,927,000, respectively on company-sponsored research and development activities. We also recorded in-process research and development expenses of $24,348,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, which represents the partial consideration for the rights granted to us under the collaboration agreement with Aurigene in January 2015. We had no collaborator-sponsored research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 

Government Regulation and Product Approvals 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. The processes for obtaining marketing approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

&#160; 

Review and Approval of Drugs in the United States 

In the United States, the FDA approves and regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The failure to comply with requirements under the FDCA and other applicable laws at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant and/or sponsor to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, including refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and other types of letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal investigations and penalties brought by the FDA and the Department of Justice or other governmental entities. 

Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the new drug application, or NDA. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preparation and submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, requesting marketing for one or more proposed indications; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; review by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of the clinical data; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including the potential requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, and the potential requirement to conduct post-approval studies. 

Preclinical Studies 

Before an applicant begins testing a compound with potential therapeutic value in humans, the drug candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, and the purity and stability of the drug substance, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the drug for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. Some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

&#160; 

Applicants usually must complete some long-term nonclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the drug in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Human Clinical Trials in Support of an NDA 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed clinical trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. 

An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed clinical trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. Following commencement of a clinical trial under an IND, the FDA may place a clinical hold on that trial. A clinical hold is an order issued by the FDA to the sponsor to delay a proposed clinical investigation or to suspend an ongoing investigation. A partial clinical hold is a delay or suspension of only part of the clinical work requested under the IND. For example, a specific protocol or part of a protocol is not allowed to proceed, while other protocols may do so. No more than 30 days after imposition of a clinical hold or partial clinical hold, the FDA will provide the sponsor a written explanation of the basis for the hold. Following issuance of a clinical hold or partial clinical hold, an investigation may only resume after the FDA has notified the sponsor that the investigation may proceed. The FDA will base that determination on information provided by the sponsor correcting the deficiencies previously cited or otherwise satisfying the FDA that the investigation can proceed. 

In addition, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct a continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1. The drug is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or, in certain indications such as cancer, patients with the target disease or condition (e.g., cancer) and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness and to determine optimal dosage. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2. The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3. These clinical trials are commonly referred to as &#147;pivotal&#148; studies, which denotes a study which presents the data that the FDA or other relevant regulatory agency will use to determine whether or not to approve a drug. The drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 4 . Post-approval studies may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The FDA or the sponsor or the data monitoring committee may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

A sponsor may choose, but is not required, to conduct a foreign clinical study under an IND. When a foreign clinical study is conducted under an IND, all FDA IND requirements must be met unless waived. When the foreign clinical study is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor must ensure that the study complies with FDA certain regulatory requirements in order to use the study as support for an IND or application for marketing approval. Specifically, on April 28, 2008, the FDA amended its regulations governing the acceptance of foreign clinical studies not conducted under an investigational new drug application as support for an IND or a new drug application. The final rule provides that such studies must be conducted in accordance with good clinical practice, or GCP, including review and approval by an independent ethics committee, or IEC, and informed consent from subjects. The GCP requirements in the final rule encompass both ethical and data integrity standards for clinical studies. The FDA&#146;s regulations are intended to help ensure the protection of human subjects enrolled in non-IND foreign clinical studies, as well as the quality and integrity of the resulting data. They further help ensure that non-IND foreign studies are conducted in a manner comparable to that required for IND studies. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies often complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality, purity, and potency of the final drug. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Review of an NDA by the FDA 

Assuming successful completion of required clinical testing and other requirements, the results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. Certain exceptions and waivers are available for some of these fees, such as an exception from the application fee for drugs with orphan 

&#160; 

designation and a waiver for certain small businesses, an exception from the establishment fee when the establishment does not engage in manufacturing the drug during a particular fiscal year, and an exception from the product fee for a drug that is the same as another drug approved under an abbreviated pathway. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of an NDA generally within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74th day after the FDA&#146;s receipt of the submission to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs. Under that agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for &#147;priority review&#148; are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of drugs that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that FDA receives the application. The review process and the Prescription Drug User Fee Act goal date may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections may cover all facilities associated with an NDA submission, including drug component manufacturing (e.g., active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU may include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The FDA may require a REMS before approval or post-approval if it becomes aware of a serious risk associated with use of the product. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of a product. 

The FDA is required to refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy and Priority Review Designations 

The FDA is authorized to designate certain products for expedited review if they are intended to address an unmet medical need in the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. These programs are fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review designation. 

Specifically, the FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other products, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or 

&#160; 

condition, and it demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for such a disease or condition. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA and the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#146;s application before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if the FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and the FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. However, the FDA&#146;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the application is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Second, in 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Product Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated &#147;breakthrough therapies.&#148; A product may be designated a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other products, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. 

Third, the FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a product that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The FDA determines, on a case- by-case basis, whether the proposed product represents a significant improvement when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting product reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and to shorten the FDA&#146;s goal for taking action on a marketing application from ten months to six months. 

Accelerated Approval Pathway 

The FDA may grant accelerated approval to a product for a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage to patients over existing treatments based upon a determination that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA may also grant accelerated approval for such a condition when the product has an effect on an intermediate clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, and that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Products granted accelerated approval must meet the same statutory standards for safety and effectiveness as those granted traditional approval. 

For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endpoint is a marker, such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a measurement of a therapeutic effect that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a product, such as an effect on IMM. The FDA has limited experience with accelerated approvals based on intermediate clinical endpoints, but has indicated that such endpoints generally may support accelerated approval where the therapeutic effect measured by the endpoint is not itself a clinical benefit and basis for traditional approval, if there is a basis for concluding that the therapeutic effect is reasonably likely to predict the ultimate clinical benefit of a product. 

&#160; 

The accelerated approval pathway is most often used in settings in which the course of a disease is long and an extended period of time is required to measure the intended clinical benefit of a product, even if the effect on the surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint occurs rapidly. Thus, accelerated approval has been used extensively in the development and approval of products for treatment of a variety of cancers in which the goal of therapy is generally to improve survival or decrease morbidity and the duration of the typical disease course requires lengthy and sometimes large trials to demonstrate a clinical or survival benefit. 

The accelerated approval pathway is usually contingent on a sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct, in a diligent manner, additional post-approval confirmatory studies to verify and describe the product&#146;s clinical benefit. As a result, a product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the product from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for product candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. 

The FDA&#146;s Decision on an NDA 

On the basis of the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the NDA and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and 

&#160; 

impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, or complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, and its implementing regulations, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the regulation of drug distributors by the states. The PDMA, its implementing regulations and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples, and the DSCA imposes requirements to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Abbreviated New Drug Applications for Generic Drugs 

In 1984, with passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FDCA, Congress established an abbreviated regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve generic drugs that are shown to contain the same active ingredients as, and to be bioequivalent to, drugs previously approved by the FDA pursuant to NDAs. To obtain approval of a generic drug, an applicant must submit an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the agency. An ANDA is a comprehensive submission that contains, among other things, data and information pertaining to the active pharmaceutical ingredient, bioequivalence, drug product formulation, specifications and stability of the generic drug, as well as analytical methods, manufacturing process validation data and quality control procedures. ANDAs are &#147;abbreviated&#148; because they generally do not include preclinical and clinical data to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Instead, in support of such applications, a generic manufacturer may rely on the preclinical and clinical testing previously conducted for a drug product previously approved under an NDA, known as the reference-listed drug, or RLD. 

Specifically, in order for an ANDA to be approved, the FDA must find that the generic version is identical to the RLD with respect to the active ingredients, the route of administration, the dosage form, the strength of the drug and the conditions of use of the drug. At the same time, the FDA must also determine that the generic drug 

&#160; 

is &#147;bioequivalent&#148; to the innovator drug. Under the statute, a generic drug is bioequivalent to a RLD if &#147;the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug...&#148; 

Upon approval of an ANDA, the FDA indicates whether the generic product is &#147;therapeutically equivalent&#148; to the RLD in its publication &#147;Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,&#148; also referred to as the &#147;Orange Book.&#148; Physicians and pharmacists consider a therapeutic equivalent generic drug to be fully substitutable for the RLD. In addition, by operation of certain state laws and numerous health insurance programs, the FDA&#146;s designation of therapeutic equivalence often results in substitution of the generic drug without the knowledge or consent of either the prescribing physician or patient. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the FDA may not approve an ANDA until any applicable period of non-patent exclusivity for the RLD has expired. The FDCA provides a period of five years of non-patent data exclusivity for a new drug containing a new chemical entity. For the purposes of this provision, a new chemical entity, or NCE, is a drug that contains no active moiety that has previously been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. An active moiety is the molecule or ion responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. In cases where such NCE exclusivity has been granted, an ANDA may not be filed with the FDA until the expiration of five years unless the submission is accompanied by a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the applicant may submit its application four years following the original product approval. 

The FDCA also provides for a period of three years of exclusivity if the NDA includes reports of one or more new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, that were conducted by or for the applicant and are essential to the approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity period often protects changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form, route of administration, combination or indication. Three-year exclusivity would be available for a drug product that contains a previously approved active moiety, provided the statutory requirement for a new clinical investigation is satisfied. Unlike five-year NCE exclusivity, an award of three-year exclusivity does not block the FDA from accepting ANDAs seeking approval for generic versions of the drug as of the date of approval of the original drug product. The FDA typically makes decisions about awards of data exclusivity shortly before a product is approved. 

505(b)(2) NDAs 

As an alternative path to FDA approval for modifications to formulations or uses of products previously approved by the FDA pursuant to an NDA, an applicant may submit an NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) was enacted as part of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on FDA&#146;s previous findings of safety and effectiveness is scientifically and legally appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements, including clinical trials, to support the change from the previously approved reference drug. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the reference drug has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Certification and the 30-Month Stay 

Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or an approved method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the Orange Book. When an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant files its application with the FDA, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the reference product in the Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. 

A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicates that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired (other than method of use patents involving indications for which the applicant is not seeking approval). 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA or the 505(b)(2) application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of 30 months after the receipt of the Paragraph IV notice, expiration of the patent, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. The ANDA or 505(b)(2) application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the branded reference drug has expired. 

Pediatric Studies and Exclusivity 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, an NDA or supplement thereto must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. With enactment of the Food and Drug Safety and Innovation Act, or the FDASIA, in 2012, sponsors must also submit pediatric study plans prior to the assessment data. Those plans must contain an outline of the proposed pediatric study or studies the applicant plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, any deferral or waiver requests, and any other information required by regulation. The applicant, the FDA, and the FDA&#146;s internal review committee must then review the information submitted, consult with each other, and agree upon a final plan. The FDA or the applicant may request an amendment to the plan at any time. 

The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Additional requirements and procedures relating to deferral requests and requests for extension of deferrals are contained in FDASIA. Unless and until FDA promulgates a regulation stating otherwise, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent and orphan exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#146;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product, are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. With regard to patents, the six-month pediatric exclusivity period will not attach to any patents for which an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant submitted a paragraph IV patent certification, unless the NDA sponsor or patent owner first obtains a court determination that the patent if valid and infringed by the proposed product. 

&#160; 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a drug product as an &#147;orphan drug&#148; if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, generally meaning that it affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. A company must request orphan drug designation before submitting an NDA for the drug and rare disease or condition. If the request is granted, the FDA will disclose the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential use. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the PDUFA goal dates for the regulatory review and approval process, although it does convey certain advantages such as tax benefits and exemption from the PDUFA application fee. 

If a product with orphan designation receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation or for a select indication or use within the rare disease or condition for which it was designated, the product generally will receive orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that the FDA may not approve another sponsor&#146;s marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in certain limited circumstances. Orphan exclusivity does not block the approval of a different drug for the same rare disease or condition, nor does it block the approval of the same drug for different indications. If a drug designated an orphan drug ultimately receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what was designated in its orphan drug application, it may not be entitled to exclusivity. Orphan exclusivity will not bar approval of another product under certain circumstances, including if a subsequent product with the same drug for the same indication is shown to be clinically superior to the approved product on the basis of greater efficacy or safety, or providing a major contribution to patient care, or if the company with orphan drug exclusivity is not able to meet market demand. 

Patent Term Restoration and Extension 

A patent claiming a new drug product or its method of use may be eligible for a limited patent term extension, also known as patent term restoration, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. Patent term extension is generally available only for drug products whose active ingredient has not previously been approved by the FDA. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term extension cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The United States PTO reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension in consultation with the FDA. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in Europe and other Foreign Jurisdictions 

In addition to regulations in the United States, a manufacturer is subject to a variety of regulations in foreign jurisdictions to the extent they choose to sell any drug products in those foreign countries. Even if a manufacturer obtains FDA approval of a product, it must still obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug or biological product in the European Union (EU), a manufacturer must submit a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency or EMA. For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, clinical trials are to be conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

&#160; 

Clinical Trial Approval in the EU 

Pursuant to the currently applicable Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC and the Directive 2005/28/EC on Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, an applicant must obtain the approval from the competent national authority of the EU Member State in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. If the clinical trial is conducted in different EU Member States, the competent authorities in each of these EU Member States must provide their approval for the conduct of the clinical trial. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial at a specific study site after the competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. 

In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable in and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation. The new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. It will overhaul the current system of approvals for clinical trials in the EU. Specifically, the new legislation aims at simplifying and streamlining the approval of clinical trials in the EU. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Marketing Authorization 

In the EU, marketing authorizations for medicinal products can be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process. 

The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU Member States. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products produced by certain biotechnological processes, products designated orphan medicinal products, and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases,. It is optional for those products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. Under the centralized procedure in the EU, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days, excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use or CHMP. Accelerated evaluation may be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases. These are defined as circumstances in which a medicinal product is expected to be of a &#147;major public health interest.&#148; Three cumulative criteria must be fulfilled in such circumstances: the seriousness of the disease, such as heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases, to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In these circumstances, the EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other concerned EU Member States of an assessment of an application for marketing authorization conducted by one EU Member State, known as the reference EU Member State. In accordance with this procedure, an applicant submits an application for marketing authorization to the reference EU Member State and the concerned EU Member States. This application is identical to the application that would be submitted to the EMA for authorization through the centralized procedure. The reference EU Member State prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. The resulting assessment report is submitted to the concerned EU Member States who, within 90 days of receipt must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a concerned EU Member State cannot approve the assessment report and related materials due to concerns relating to a potential serious risk to public health, disputed elements may be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all EU Member States. In accordance with the mutual recognition procedure, the sponsor applies for national marketing authorization in one EU Member State. Upon 

&#160; 

receipt of this authorization the sponsor can then seek the recognition of this authorization by other EU Member States. Authorization in accordance with either of these procedures will result in authorization of the medicinal product only in the reference EU Member State and in the other concerned EU Member States. 

A marketing authorization may be granted only to an applicant established in the EU. Regulation No. 1901/2006 provides that prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the EU, an applicant must demonstrate compliance with all measures included in a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA, covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP. Regulatory Data Exclusivity in the European Union 

In the European Union, innovative medicinal products authorized in the EU on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data available in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved, medicinal product) are entitled to eight years of data exclusivity . During this period, applicants for authorization of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. Innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years&#146; market exclusivity. During this ten year period no generic of this medicinal product can be placed on the EU market. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to authorization, is held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity so that the innovator gains the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company may market another version of the product if such company obtained marketing authorization based on an MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical tests, preclinical tests and clinical trials. 

Periods of Authorization and Renewals in the EU 

A marketing authorization is valid for five years, in principle, and it may be renewed after five years on the basis of a reevaluation of the risk-benefit balance by the EMA or by the competent authority of the relevant EU Member State. To that end, the marketing authorization holder must provide the EMA or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State with a consolidated version of the file in respect of quality, safety and efficacy, including all variations introduced since the marketing authorization was granted, at least six months before the marketing authorization ceases to be valid. Once renewed, the marketing authorization is valid for an unlimited period, unless the European Commission or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal period. Any marketing authorization that is not followed by the marketing of the medicinal product on the EU market (in the case of the centralized procedure) or on the market of the EU Member State which delivered the marketing authorization within three years after authorization ceases to be valid. 

Regulatory Requirements after Marketing Authorization 

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual EU Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. 

The holder of an EU marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with EU pharmacovigilance legislation and its related regulations and guidelines which entail many requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. These rules can impose on central marketing authorization holders for medicinal products the obligation to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies. 

&#160; 

The manufacturing process for medicinal products in the EU is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. Manufacturing requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidance, including Directive 2001/83/EC, Directive 2003/94/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the European Commission Guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practice. These requirements include compliance with EU cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the EU with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the EU. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the EU is subject to compliance with the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the EU Member States. 

In the EU, the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to EU Member States&#146; laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU Member States may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product&#146;s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. The applicable laws at EU level and in the individual EU Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals. 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity in the EU 

Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and Regulation (EC) No. 847/2000 provide that a product can be designated an orphan medicinal product by the European Commission if its sponsor can establish: that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of (1) a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the EU when the application is made, or (2) a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the EU and that without incentives the medicinal product is unlikely to be developed. For either of these conditions, the applicant must demonstrate that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the EU or, if such method exists, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity in all EU Member States and in addition a range of other benefits during the development and regulatory review process including scientific assistance for study protocols, authorization through the centralized marketing authorization procedure covering all member countries and a reduction or elimination of registration and marketing authorization fees. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and markets in other countries, patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided 

&#160; 

and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Even if our product candidate is approved, sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations, provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for, such products. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and imposing controls to manage costs. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable marketing approvals. Nonetheless, product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover our product candidate could reduce physician utilization of our products once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage and reimbursement for the product, and the level of coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

The containment of healthcare costs also has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit a company&#146;s revenue generated from the sale of any approved products. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which a company or its collaborators receive marketing approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Outside the United States, ensuring adequate coverage and payment for our product candidate will face challenges. Pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in many countries. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require us to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidate or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in our commercialization efforts. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies or so called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. 

&#160; 

Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states, and parallel trade, i.e., arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products, if approved in those countries. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims laws, reporting of payments to physicians and teaching physicians and patient privacy laws and regulations and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain our business and/or financial arrangements. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the United States federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false, fictitious or fraudulent or knowingly making, using or causing to made or used a false record or statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, which impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing &#183;or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal transparency requirements known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services, information related to payments and other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to healthcare items or services that are reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. 

Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Healthcare Reform 

A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, limiting coverage and reimbursement for drugs and other medical products, government control and other changes to the healthcare system in the United States. 

By way of example, the United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act, which, among other things, includes changes to the coverage and payment for products under government health care programs. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to our potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded manufacturers&#146; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of &#147;average manufacturer price,&#148; or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#146; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. 

Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. 

There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the foreign, federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain marketing approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop product candidates. 

Competition 

Our drug candidates, if approved, will compete with existing and new products being developed by others for treatment of the same indications. Competition in the development of human therapeutics and, in particular, human therapeutics that target signaling pathways to treat cancers, is intense. Our competitors include large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, as well as specialized biotechnology firms, that are developing cancer therapies in the same indications as we are. 

There are several companies developing drug candidates that target the same molecular targets and signaling pathways, and in some cases the same cancer indications, that are being pursued by us and our collaborators. We believe our primary competitors by molecular target as are as follows: 

CUDC-907 : We are not aware of other molecules in clinical testing that are designed as one chemical entity to target both HDAC and PI3K. However, there are commercially-available drugs that individually target HDAC. For example, commercially available HDAC inhibitors include Farydaq TM (panobinostat) which is produced by Novartis International AG, Zolinza TM (vorinostat), which is produced by Merck &#38; Company, Istodax TM (romidepsin), which is produced by Celgene Corporation and Beleodaq TM (belinostat) which is produced by Spectrum Pharmaceuticals. In addition, there are several companies testing novel HDAC inhibitors in clinical trials, including among others, Mirati Therapeutics (mocetinostat), Syndax Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (entinostat), MEI Pharma, Inc. (pracinostat), 4SC AG (resminostat and 4SC-202), Acetylon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ricolinostat), Italfarmaco S.p.A. (givinostat), and Celleron Therapeutics (CXD101). There are multiple companies testing various PI3K inhibitors, both isoform specific and pan-PI3K inhibitors, which are in various stages of clinical development. There is currently only one approved isoform specific PI3K inhibitor on the market, Zydelig TM (idelalisib), which is marketed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. Some of the other companies developing PI3K inhibitors include Novartis (BKM120/ buparlisib, BYL719), Bayer AG (copanlisib/ BAY 80-6946), Genentech/ Roche (pictilisib, GDC-0941), Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (duvelisib, IPI-145), Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (TAK-117, previously MLN1117), GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK2636771), Pfizer Inc. (PF-05212384), Sanofi (SAR245409), TG Therapeutics, Inc. (TGR-1202), Incyte Corporation (INCB40093), Zenyaku Kogyo Co., Ltd (ZSTK474) and Verastem, Inc. (VS-5584). 

&#160; 

Licensed Programs Under Aurigene Collaboration . We are aware of at least three other companies that are developing IRAK4 inhibitors for oncology indications: Pfizer, Nimbus Discovery and TG Therapeutics. In addition, there are two approved drugs on the market that target PD-1/ PD-L1 interactions (Bristol-Myers Squibb&#146;s Opdivo&#153; and Merck &#38; Co.&#146;s Keytruda&#153;) and a number of drug candidates in various stages of development that target similar interactions such as Roche&#146;s atezolizumab/ MPDL3280A, Merck KGaA&#146;s avelumab/ MSB0010718C (collaborator: Pfizer), AstraZeneca/ MedImmune&#146;s durvalumab/ MEDI4736 and MEDI0680, and others. 

Erivedge . We are aware of several other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have drug development programs relating to compounds that modulate the Hedgehog signaling pathway. We believe that there are currently at least four other companies that have advanced Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitors into clinical development: Eli Lilly and Company (LY2940680), Exelixis, Inc./Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS-833923 or XL139), and Pfizer Inc. (PF-04449913 ). Other Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitors are in earlier stages of clinical development. In 2015, Novartis&#146; sonidegib (Odomzo TM ), a Hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced BCC that has recurred following surgery or radiation, or those who are not candidates for surgery or radiation, received regulatory approvals in the United States and European Union. 

CUDC-427 : We are aware of several other companies developing antagonists of IAP proteins including, among others, Debiopharm SA (Debio 1143), Novartis AG (LCL161) and TetraLogic Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (birinapant). 

CUDC-305 : Several companies are investigating HSP90 inhibitors in clinical testing, including, among others, Astex Therapeutics Ltd. (onalespib/ AT13387), Vernalis (AUY922), and Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp (ganetespib). 

Many competing companies have financial, marketing and human resource capacities that are substantially greater than our own, which may provide these competitors with significant advantages over us. Others have extensive experience in undertaking clinical trials, in obtaining regulatory approval to market products, in manufacturing products on a large scale and in effectively promoting products to healthcare providers, health plans and consumers which may enhance their competitive position relative to ours. In addition to competing with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, the products that we are developing would also compete with those being developed by academic and research institutions, government agencies and other public organizations. Any of these organizations may discover new therapies, seek patent protection or establish collaborative arrangements for products and technologies that are competitive with our products and technologies. 

The technologies underlying the development of human therapeutic products are expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant advancement and unpredictable changes. Accordingly, our technological and commercial success will be based, among other things, on our ability to develop proprietary positions in key scientific areas and efficiently evaluate potential product opportunities. 

The timing of a product&#146;s introduction may be a major factor in determining eventual commercial success and profitability. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, we believe the relative speed with which we or any current or future collaborator(s) can complete preclinical and clinical testing, obtain regulatory approvals, and supply commercial quantities of a product will have an important impact on our competitive position, both in the U.S. and abroad. Other companies may succeed in developing similar products that are introduced earlier, are more effective, or are produced and marketed more effectively, or at a minimum obtain a portion of the market share. For example, our competitors may discover, characterize and develop important targeted cancer molecules before we do, which could have a material adverse effect on any of our related research programs. If research and development by others renders any of our products obsolete or noncompetitive, then our potential for success and profitability may be adversely affected. 

&#160; 

For certain of our programs, we rely on, or intend to rely on, strategic collaborators for support in our research programs and for preclinical evaluation and clinical development of our potential products and manufacturing and marketing of any products. Our strategic collaborators may conduct multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of our strategic collaboration with them. Our strategic collaboration agreements may not restrict the strategic collaborator from pursuing competing internal development efforts. Any of our drug candidates, therefore, may be subject to competition with a drug candidate under development by a strategic collaborator. 

Manufacturing and Supply 

We have no internal experience or capabilities in manufacturing. We currently rely on collaborators or subcontractors, and we have no plans to develop our own manufacturing capability. Instead, we plan to continue to rely on corporate collaborators or subcontractors to manufacture products. If any of our current or planned collaborators or subcontractors encounters regulatory compliance problems or enforcement actions for their own or a collaborative product, it could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. 

We employ a material sourcing strategy that complies with regulatory requirements for building increasing amounts of quality into the product, beginning with raw materials and following through to packaged drug product for clinical use. Starting materials for the drug substance are typically sourced from China or India, and the chemical synthesis to make the regulatory starting materials for the API (those materials that are listed in the IND as the starting point for GMP synthesis) is conducted under our supervision in the same countries. Regulatory starting materials are then shipped to the U.S. for the CUDC-907 program, or remain in India for the CA-170 and CA-4948 programs, where the raw materials are converted into the drug substance under GMP controls. All reagents and raw materials used in the synthesis are pharmaceutical grade, and are release tested prior to use in the drug substance synthesis. 

Drug product production for all of our development candidates is conducted in the U.S. or Canada, and all under GMP controls. All excipients are compendial grade, and are compliant with U.S. and EU regulations. Final packaging and labelling of the drug product has typically been carried out in the U.S. or Canada, and will also be conducted in the EU (specifically the United Kingdom), starting in 2016, to support international trials. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience or infrastructure and we have no current plans to develop such capabilities. We currently plan to rely on corporate collaborators for product sales, marketing and distribution. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 44 full-time employees, of whom 15 hold a Ph.D. or other advanced scientific or medical degree. Of our employees, 31 are currently involved in research and development. None of our employees is a party to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Segment Reporting 

We are engaged solely in the discovery and development of innovative drug candidates for the treatment of human cancers. Accordingly, we have determined that we operate in one operating segment. 

&#160; 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Our executive officers as of February 29, 2016 are as follows: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age 

&#160; Position 

Ali Fattaey, Ph.D. 

&#160; 51 &#160; President and Chief Executive Officer Michael P. Gray(1) 

&#160; 45 &#160; Chief Financial and Business Officer Mani Mohindru, Ph.D. 

&#160; 44 &#160; Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations David Tuck, M.D. 

&#160; 64 &#160; Senior Vice President, Clinical and Translational Sciences &#160;

(1) On January 18, 2016, Mr. Gray provided to the Company notice of his intention to resign from the Company, effective as of February 29, 2016. 

Ali Fattaey, Ph.D. 

&#160; Dr. Fattaey has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since June 2014. From February 2013 to June 2014, Dr. Fattaey served as our President and Chief Operating Officer. From 2011 until February 2013, Dr. Fattaey served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of ACT Biotech, Inc., a biotechnology company. Dr. Fattaey served as ACT Biotech&#146;s Chief Operating and Scientific Officer from 2008 until 2010. From June 2006 until January 2008, Dr. Fattaey served the Director of Science and Technology at the Melanoma Therapeutics Foundation, a non-profit organization. From January 2005 until June 2006, Dr. Fattaey was a strategic consultant for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Dr. Fattaey was previously employed at Sagres Discovery, Inc., a biotechnology company, as its Chief Scientific Officer from November 2001 until April 2004 and subsequently as the Senior Vice President of Discovery Research at Chiron Corporation following Chiron&#146;s acquisition of Sagres Discovery. Dr. Fattaey was employed by Onyx Pharmaceuticals from January 1994 until June 2001, most recently as its Vice President of Discovery Research. Dr. Fattaey received his Ph.D. in microbiology from Kansas State University in 1989 and was a Research Fellow in Medicine at Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center. Michael P. Gray 

&#160; Mr. Gray served as our Chief Financial Officer from December 2006 and as our Chief Business Officer from February 2014. Mr. Gray served as our Chief Operating Officer from December 2006 to February 2013. From December 2003 until December 2006, Mr. Gray served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and from August 2000 until December 2003, served as our Senior Director of Finance and Controller. From January 1998 to July 2000, Mr. Gray was Controller at Reprogenesis, Inc., a predecessor biotechnology company. Mr. Gray previously served as an audit professional for the accounting and consulting firm of Ernst &#38; Young, LLP. Mr. Gray is a certified public accountant, holds an M.B.A. from the F.W. Olin Graduate School of Business at Babson College, and has a B.S. in accounting from Bryant College. Mani Mohindru, Ph.D. 

&#160; Dr. Mohindru has served as our Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations since April 2015. From June 2013 to March 2015, Dr. Mohindru served as our Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations. From October 2012 to May 2013, Dr. Mohindru was involved in co-founding ImmTox, Inc., a privately-held biotechnology company. From June 2011 to September 2012, Dr. Mohindru was a Senior Biotechnology Analyst at ThinkEquity, LLC, a research and investment &#160; 

&#160; banking firm. Previously, from June 2009 to May 2011, Dr. Mohindru was a Partner at Axon Healthcare Company, a strategic pharmaceutical and biotechnology consultancy firm that she co-founded. Dr. Mohindru was also a Managing Director at Capstone Investments in its investment banking division, a Vice President and Senior Research Analyst at Credit Suisse, and an Associate Research Analyst at global financial services firm UBS. Dr. Mohindru completed her Ph.D. in Neurosciences at Northwestern University and she received both her B.S. (Hons) in Human Biology and Masters in Biotechnology from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. David Tuck, M.D. 

&#160; Dr. Tuck previously served as our Vice President of Clinical and Translational Sciences from May 2015 through January 2016. He joined us from EMD Serono, the biopharmaceutical division of Merck KGaA, where he was Senior Medical Director in the Oncology Translational Innovation Program from 2013 until May 2015, overseeing activities ranging from early clinical development of small molecule and biologic targeted therapeutics, to novel target and biomarker identification focused on bioinformatics and genomics analysis. Prior to that, Dr. Tuck was employed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology Research from December 2010 until May 2013, where he served in the roles of Translational Physician for ipilimumab, and external development leader in solid tumors and hematological malignancies for immune checkpoint inhibitors. Between 2000 and 2010, Dr. Tuck was an Associate Professor at Yale University. While at Yale, he led a research lab in genomics and bioinformatics of cancer, stem cells and molecular hematology. He also served as Associate Director of the Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center from 2000 to 2006. Dr. Tuck earned his B.A. at Harvard University and medical degree at the University of Vermont School of Medicine, and received board certification in internal medicine, medical oncology and hematology. &#160; 

