 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Salesforce is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings with new editions, solutions, features and platform capabilities. 

Our mission is to help our customers transform themselves into customer-centric companies by empowering them to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. Our Customer Success Platform, including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, community management, analytics, application development, Internet of Things integration and our professional cloud services, provide the next-generation platform of enterprise applications, or apps, and services to enable customer success. 

Our service offerings are intuitive and easy-to-use, can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise apps. We deliver our solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on leading mobile devices. We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and new apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our services. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California, and our principal website address is www.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105. 

The Age of the Customer 

We believe that the convergence of cloud, social, mobile, data science and Internet of Things technologies is fundamentally transforming how companies sell, service, market and innovate to connect with their customers. 

Cloud computing has changed the way enterprise business apps are developed and deployed. Organizations no longer need to buy and maintain their own infrastructure of servers, storage and development tools in order to create and run business apps. Instead, companies can gain access to a variety of business apps via an Internet browser or mobile device on an as-needed basis, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house. 

Social networking has transformed the way people engage and collaborate and is accelerating the adoption of technologies that connect people, products and brands. In addition, the proliferation of mobile phones worldwide continues, and enterprise mobile apps are making it possible for people to conduct business from their phones anytime and anywhere. 

Progress in data science and machine learning is moving companies beyond just automating business processes to more data-driven, predictive computing solutions. As more people and devices become connected via the Internet of Things, mobile devices and apps, companies are unlocking insights and turning data into meaningful actions to help them to proactively engage one-to-one with customers in real time. 

By bringing together the power of cloud, social, mobile, data science and Internet of Things technologies in our Customer Success Platform, we believe Salesforce is at the forefront of enabling companies to digitally transform into customer-centric companies. 

Our Cloud Service Offerings 

We provide enterprise cloud computing solutions that include apps and platform services, as well as professional services to facilitate the adoption of our solutions. Our service offerings empower companies to grow sales faster; deliver customer service on multiple devices and channels; enable marketers to create one-to-one customer journeys; build branded communities for customers, partners and employees; deliver analytics for every business user; turn data generated by the Internet of Things, or IoT, into meaningful actions; and develop modern mobile and desktop apps quickly and easily. 

Our service offerings are as follows: 

Sales Cloud. The Sales Cloud enables companies to store data, monitor leads and progress, forecast opportunities, gain insights through relationship intelligence and collaborate around any sale on desktop and mobile devices. Our customers use the Sales Cloud to grow their sales pipelines, improve sales productivity, simplify complex business processes and close more deals. The Sales Cloud also offers solutions for partner relationship management (including channel management and partner communities) and complete, accurate customer and contact information. 

Service Cloud. The Service Cloud enables companies to deliver smarter, faster and more personalized customer service and support. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their service agents with customers at any time and anywhere, on popular devices and across multiple channels &#8212; phone, email, chat, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and mobile apps. 

Marketing Cloud. &#32;The Marketing Cloud enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer interactions. Our customers use the Marketing Cloud to map customer journeys to digital marketing interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. With the Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be integrated with the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers. 

Community Cloud. The Community Cloud enables companies to engage directly with groups of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts, creating trusted, branded destinations for customers, partners and employees to collaborate. 

Analytics Cloud. The Analytics Cloud is an app for business intelligence powered by our Wave platform. It enables companies to quickly deploy sales, service, marketing and custom analytics apps using any data source. Our customers use the Analytics Cloud to enable any employee to quickly and easily explore business data, uncover new insights, make smarter decisions and take action from anywhere on popular mobile devices. 

IoT Cloud. The IoT Cloud, which we announced in September 2015, connects billions of events from devices, sensors, apps and more from the Internet of Things to Salesforce &#8212; enabling companies to take action in a connected world. Our customers use the IoT Cloud to process massive quantities of data, build smarter, more personalized actions and engage proactively with customers in real time. We are currently piloting this new offering with several enterprises. 

App Cloud. The App Cloud is an app development platform that includes Force, Heroku, Enterprise and Lightning &#8212; along with shared identity, data and network services to empower companies to deliver connected apps for any business need. In addition, the App Cloud's platform services include Trailhead, an interactive learning environment for all Salesforce developers, and the AppExchange, Salesforce's enterprise app marketplace. The App Cloud empowers companies with 

everything they need to build apps quickly, in any language, for any device, and manage them in a single enterprise cloud environment. 

Professional Cloud Services 

We offer professional cloud services including consulting, deployment, training, user-centric design and integration to our customers to facilitate faster adoption of our cloud solutions and enable customer success. We also offer architects and innovation program teams that act as advisors to plan and execute digital transformations for our customers, mission critical support, cloud specialists and admin and configuration services that allow our customers to make the best use of our technology. 

We offer several education service offerings to our customers and partners, ranging from introductory online courses to advanced architecture certifications. With the Trailhead learning platform, our customers and partners have free online access to courses that address topics such as using and administering our services and developing on our platform. For more advanced education, we offer instructor-led and online courses to certify our customers and partners on architecting, administering, deploying and developing our services. In addition, there is a selection of online educational classes available at no charge to customers that subscribe to our customer service plans. 

Business Benefits of Using Our Solution 

The key advantages of our solution include: 

Secure, private, scalable and reliable. &#32;Our service has been designed to provide our customers with privacy and high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously. 

Rapid deployment and lower total cost of ownership. Our services can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security products or other hardware and software. We enable customers to achieve up-front savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. 

Ease of integration and configuration. IT professionals are able to integrate and configure our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application programming interfaces (&#8220;APIs&#8221;) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our solution with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our App Cloud API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged applications into our service on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities. 

High levels of user adoption. We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many tools and features recognizable to users of popular consumer web services, so users have a more familiar user experience than typical enterprise applications. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training. We have also designed our solutions to be used on popular mobile devices, making it possible for people to conduct business from their phones. 

Rapid development of apps and increased innovation. Our customers and third-party developers can create apps rapidly because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also support a variety of programming languages so developers can code complex apps spanning multiple business processes and deliver them via multiple mobile devices. By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware. Developers with ideas for a new app can create, test and support their solutions on the App Cloud and make the app accessible for a subscription fee to customers. 

Continuous innovation. We release hundreds of new features to all of our customers three times a year. Our metadata-driven, multitenant cloud runs on a single code base, which enables every customer to run their business on the latest release without disruption. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date and therefore benefit all of our customers immediately. 

Positive environmental impact. Our multi-tenant cloud platform makes it possible to use a remarkably small number of servers as efficiently as possible. When organizations move business applications to Salesforce, they can significantly reduce their energy use and carbon footprints compared to traditional on-premises solutions. 

Our Strategy 

Our objective is to deliver solutions that transform how companies sell, service, market and innovate to connect with their customers in a whole new way. Not only do we provide enterprise cloud apps, we also provide an enterprise cloud computing platform upon which our customers and partners build and customize their own apps. 

Key elements of our strategy include: 

Strengthening our market-leading solutions. We offer multiple editions of our solutions at different price points to meet the needs of customers of different sizes and we have designed our solutions to easily accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to extend all editions of our solutions with new features, functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. We also provide solutions for certain vertical industries. 

Expanding strategic relationships with customers. &#32;We see significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our services, we aim to upgrade the customer to premium editions and sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units, ultimately becoming our customers' trusted advisors, inspiring enterprise-wide transformation and accelerating strategic engagements, including through direct engagement with the highest levels of our customers' executive management. 

Extending distribution into new and high-growth product categories. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, communities and the Internet of Things. We drive innovation both organically and through acquisitions, such as our February 2016 acquisition of a company that has a next generation quote-to-cash solution delivered 100 percent natively on our platform. 

Expanding our world-class sales organization. &#32;We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in top industries and major regions, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our service. 

Reducing customer attrition. Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions prior to the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers. 

Building our business in top software markets globally, which includes building partnerships that help add customers. We believe that there is a substantial market opportunity for our solutions globally. We plan to continue to aggressively market and sell to customers worldwide via local sales and support professionals with deep expertise in target industries and through partnerships with other enterprise software vendors, ISVs and system integrators. Additionally, we plan to increase the capacity that we are able to offer globally through data centers and third party infrastructure providers. 

Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. The App Cloud enables existing customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud-based apps. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our online marketplace for business apps, or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors will address the business requirements of both current and future customers. 

Technology, Development and Operations 

We deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. 

Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. Customers can use and customize an application as though they each have a separate instance, yet their data and customizations remain secure and insulated from the activities of all other tenants. Our multi-tenant services run on a single stack of hardware and software, which is comprised of commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and commercially available software. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct applications. 

Multi-tenancy also allows for faster bug and security fixes, automatic software updates and the ability to deploy major releases and frequent, incremental improvements to our services, benefiting the entire user community. 

Our services are optimized to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than on-premise software that must be written to the different hardware, operating systems and database platforms existing within a customer&#8217;s unique systems environment. Our developers build and support solutions and features on a single code base on our chosen technology platform. 

Our efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new features, functionality and services. From time to time, we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside development resources and acquired technology. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies or technologies, and we incorporate the acquired technologies into our solutions. Performance, functional depth, security and the usability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction. 

Our customers access our services from any geography over the Internet via all of the major Internet browsers and on most major mobile device operating systems. 

We provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure operated by us but secured within third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries. These third-party data center providers provide space, physical security, continuous power and cooling. The remainder of our services operate from cloud computing platform providers who offer Infrastructure as a Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking. 

Sources of Revenue 

We derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees for our service. We also derive revenues from premier support, which provides customers with additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee. 

We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. The majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and materials basis, for which we generally recognize revenue as the services are rendered. 

Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual installments. Deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity within the quarter. 

Customers 

We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;or 2014 . 

Digital Transactions 

Our digital transaction volume, representing transactions processed through our solutions and platform, excluding Marketing Cloud and one of our platform service offerings, Heroku, was 976 billion &#32;for fiscal 2016, an increase of 67 percent &#32;as compared to fiscal 2015. A transaction is a retrieval or update within the Salesforce database, which can be a page load, an information query or an API call, among other things. 

Our transaction metrics are used to illustrate the growing usage of our service by our customers and to highlight the scalability of our service. We do not believe such transaction metrics are key performance indicators of our financial condition. Specifically, there is no direct correlation between the transaction activity and our financial results, such as our revenue or expense growth and changes in our operating cash flow balances and deferred revenue balances. Additionally, such transaction activity cannot be relied upon as an indicator of future financial performance. 

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support 

We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, including the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 26 &#32;percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of the Americas. 

Strategic Investments 

Since 2009, we have been investing in early-to-late stage technology and professional cloud service companies across the globe to support our key business initiatives, which include, among other things, extending the capabilities of our platform and CRM offerings, increasing the ecosystem of enterprise cloud companies and partners, accelerating the adoption of cloud technologies and creating the next-generation of mobile applications and connected products. Our minority investments in over 150 companies as of January 31, 2016 also help us stay connected with the pace of innovation that is currently occurring within the technology industry. In some cases, we have acquired companies in which we have previously invested. 

Because of the inherent risk in investing in early-to-late stage technology companies, our individual investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital. 

Direct Sales 

We sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. 

Referral and Indirect Sales 

We have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects. 

This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and regional partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. Also included in this network are ISVs, whom we typically pay a percentage of the subscription revenue generated by their referrals. 

We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service. 

Marketing 

Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners, and developers. 

Our primary marketing activities include: 

&#8226; 

Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition; 

&#8226; 

User conferences and events, such as Dreamforce, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer and prospect awareness; 

&#8226; 

Content marketing and engagement on social channels like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube; 

&#8226; 

Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties; 

&#8226; 

Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies, white papers, and marketing collateral; 

&#8226; 

Multi-channel marketing campaigns; 

&#8226; 

Customer testimonials; and 

&#8226; 

Sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers. 

Customer Service and Support 

Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support that is either included in a premium offering or sold for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support, and system administration. In addition, we offer a mission critical support add-on that is 

designed to provide customers with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, and which offers instruction to optimize their usage of our products. 

Seasonality 

Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. For a more detailed discussion, see the &#8220;Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable&#8221; discussion in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis. 

Competition 

The market for our service offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology and frequent introductions of new products and services. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud computing application service. Additionally, third-party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms. 

We compete primarily with generalized platforms and vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps, including CRM, collaboration and business intelligence software. We also compete with internally developed apps. We may encounter competition from established enterprise software vendors, as well as start-up and midsized companies focused on disruption, who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers&#8217; current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current principal competitors include: 

&#8226; 

On-premises offerings from enterprise software application vendors; 

&#8226; 

Cloud computing application service providers; 

&#8226; 

Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality; 

&#8226; 

Social media companies; 

&#8226; 

Traditional platform development environment companies; 

&#8226; 

Cloud computing development platform companies; 

&#8226; 

Internally developed applications (by our potential customers&#8217; information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) departments); and 

&#8226; 

Internet of Things platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies. 

We believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they may become a greater competitive threat. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brands and maintain programs to protect and grow our rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, fostering open source software or attracting and enabling our external development community. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had more than 19,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, workers&#8217; councils represent our employees. 

Available Information 

You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/ as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company&#8217;s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

