 Item 1. Business. INTRODUCTION 

CorVel is a national provider of workers&#146; compensation solutions for employers, third party administrators, insurance companies, and government agencies seeking to control costs and promote positive outcomes. The Company applies technology, intelligence, and a human touch to the challenges of risk management so that their clients can intervene early and often while being connected to the critical intelligence they need to proactively manage risk. CorVel specializes in applying advanced communication and information technology to improve healthcare management for workers&#146; compensation, group health, auto and liability claims management. With a technology platform at its core, the Company&#146;s connected solution is delivered by a national team of associates who are committed to helping clients deliver programs that meet their organization&#146;s performance goals. 

The Company&#146;s services include claims management, bill review, preferred provider networks, utilization management, case management, pharmacy services, directed care and Medicare services. CorVel offers its services as a bundled solution (i.e. claims management), as a standalone service, or as add-on services to existing customers. Customers of the Company that do not purchase a bundled solution generally use another provider, use an in-house solution, or choose not to utilize such a service to manage their workers&#146; compensation costs. When customers purchase several products from CorVel, the pricing of the products sold is generally the same as if the product were sold on an individual basis. Bundled products are generally delivered in the same accounting period. 

The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1987, and its principal executive offices are located at 2010 Main Street, Suite 600, Irvine, California, 92614. The Company&#146;s telephone number is 949-851-1473. 

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 

Workers&#146; compensation is a federally mandated, state-legislated insurance program that requires employers to fund medical expenses, lost wages and other costs resulting from work-related injuries and illnesses. Workers&#146; compensation benefits and arrangements vary extensively on a state-by-state basis and are often highly complex. State statutes and court decisions control many aspects of the compensation process, including claims handling, impairment or disability evaluation, dispute settlement, benefit amount guidelines and cost-control strategies. 

In addition to the compensation process, cost containment and claims management continue to be significant employer concerns and many look to managed care vendors and third party administrators for cost savings solutions. The Company believes that cost drivers in workers&#146; compensation include: implementing effective return to work and transitional duty programs, coordinating medical care, medical cost management, recognizing fraud and abuse, and improving communications with injured workers. CorVel provides solutions using a holistic approach to cost containment and by looking at a complete savings solution. Often one of the biggest cost drivers is not recognizing a complex claim at the onset of an injury often resulting in claims being open longer and resulting in a delayed return to work. CorVel uses an integrated claims model that controls claims costs by advocating medical management at the onset of the injury to decrease administrative costs and to shorten the length of the disability. 

Some states have adopted legislation for managed care organizations (MCO) in an effort to allow employers to control their worker&#146;s compensation costs. A managed care plan is organized to serve the medical needs of injured workers in an efficient and cost-effective manner by managing the delivery of medical services through appropriate health care professionals. CorVel is registered wherever legislation mandates, where it is beneficial for the Company to obtain a license, or where the MCO is an effective utilized mandate. Since MCO legislation varies by state, CorVel&#146;s state offerings vary as well. CorVel continually evaluates new legislation to ensure it is in compliance and can offer services to its customers and prospects. 

&#160;

FISCAL 2016 DEVELOPMENTS 

Company Stock Repurchase Program 

During fiscal 2016, the Company continued to repurchase shares of its common stock under a plan originally approved by the Company&#146;s Board of Directors in 1996. In November 2015, the Company&#146;s Board of Directors increased the number of shares of common stock authorized to be repurchased over the life of the plan by 1,000,000 shares of common stock to 35,000,000 shares of common stock. During fiscal 2016, the Company spent $31.5 million to repurchase 893,771 shares of its common stock. Since commencing this program in the fall of 1996, the Company has repurchased 33,886,259 shares of its common stock through March 31, 2016, at a cost of $392 million. These repurchases were funded primarily from the Company&#146;s operating cash flows. 

BUSINESS &#151; SERVICES 

The Company offers services in two general categories, network solutions and patient management, to assist its customers in managing the increasing medical costs of workers&#146; compensation, group health and auto insurance, and monitoring the quality of care provided to claimants. CorVel reduces claims costs by advocating medical management at the onset of an injury to decrease administrative costs and to shorten the length of the disability. These solutions offer personalized treatment programs that use precise treatment protocols to advocate timely, quality care for injured workers. 

Network Solutions 

CorVel offers a complete medical savings solution for all in-network and out-of-network medical bills including PPO management, specialty networks, medical bill repricing, true line item review, expert fee negotiations, professional nurse review, automated adjudication and electronic reimbursement. Each feature focuses on increasing processing efficiencies and maximizing savings opportunities. 

Bill Review 

Many states have adopted fee schedules, which regulate the maximum allowable fees payable under workers&#146; compensation, for procedures performed by a variety of health treatment providers. Developed in 1989, CorVel&#146;s proprietary bill review and claims management technology automates the review process to provide customers with a faster turnaround time, more efficient bill review and a higher total savings. CorVel&#146;s artificial intelligence engine includes over sixty million individual rules, which creates a comprehensive review process that is more efficient than traditional manual bill review processes. 

Payors are able to review and approve bills online as well as access savings reports through an online portal, CareMC. The process is paperless, through scanning and electronic data interface (&#147;EDI&#148;), while proving to be cost effective and efficient. CorVel&#146;s solutions are fully customizable and can be tailored to meet unique payor requirements. 

Bill Review Services include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Coding review and re-bundling &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Reasonable and customary review &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fee schedule analysis &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Out-of-network bill review &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pharmacy review &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PPO management &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Repricing &#160;

PPO Management 

PPOs are groups of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers that offer services at pre-negotiated rates to employee groups. The Company believes that PPO networks offer the employer an additional means of managing healthcare costs by reducing the per-unit price of medical services provided to employees. CorVel began offering a proprietary national PPO network in 1992 and today it is comprised of over 750,000 board-certified providers. The Company provides the convenience of a PPO Provider look-up mobile application for use with iPhone, iPad and Android. The application is available to the public and makes it convenient to locate a provider in the CorVel network. Users can search providers based on quality, range of services and location. 

CorVel has a long-term strategy of network development, providing comprehensive networks to our customers and customization of networks to meet the specific needs of our customers. The Company believes that the combination of its national PPO strength and presence and the local PPO developers&#146; commitment and community involvement enables CorVel to build, support and strengthen its PPO in size, quality, depth of discount, and commitment to service. 

The Company has a team of national, regional and local personnel supporting the CorVel network. This team of PPO developers are responsible for local recruitment, contract negotiations, credentialing and re-credentialing of providers, and working with customers to develop customer specific provider networks. Each bill review operation has provider relations support staff to address provider grievances and other billing issues. 

Providers are selected from criteria based on quality, range of services, price and location. Each provider is thoroughly evaluated and credentialed, then re-credentialed every three years. Through this extensive evaluation process, we are able to provide significant hospital, physician and ancillary medical savings, while maintaining high quality care. Provider network services include a national network for all medical coverages, board-certified physicians, provider credentialing, patient channeling, online PPO look-up, printable directories and driving directions, and Managed Care Organizations (MCO). 

CERiS SM 

CERiS, CorVel&#146;s enhanced bill review program, allows claim payors to adjust individual line item charges on all bills to reasonable and customary levels while removing all error and billing discrepancies with professional review. The enhanced bill review program scrutinizes each hospital line description and charge as a separate and distinct claim for reimbursement. CorVel&#146;s proprietary Universal Chargemaster defines each code and description, enabling its registered nurses to identify errors, duplicate charges, re-bundle exploded charges, correct quantity discrepancies and remove unused supplies. 

Professional Review 

CorVel&#146;s services offer a complete audit and validation of facility bill accuracy. This solution also includes review of in-network facility bills. The Company&#146;s experienced nurse auditors have clinical backgrounds in all areas of medicine, medical billing and coding to ensure an accurate, consistent and thorough review. If a bill is identified for professional review, the bill image and its associated medical reports are routed within the system to an experienced medical nurse for review and auditing. 

Provider Reimbursement 

One of the interfaces of CorVel&#146;s bill review service is the automated issuance of provider reimbursements. CorVel&#146;s provider reimbursement service allows the ability to determine dollars spent and bills reviewed and to assist in setting reserves through charts available online. Through the bill review system, CorVel has the capability to provide check writing or provider reimbursement services for its customers. The provider payment check can be added to the bill analysis to produce one combined document. 

&#160;

Pharmacy Services 

CorVel provides patients with a full-feature pharmacy program that offers formulary management, discounted prescriptions, drug interaction monitoring, utilization management and eligibility confirmation. Our pharmacy network of nationally recognized pharmacies provides savings off the retail price of prescriptions associated with a workers&#146; compensation claim. The Company&#146;s pharmacy services program includes preferred access to a national pharmacy network, streamlined processing for pharmacies at point of sale, first fill and next fill programs, mail order and 90-day retail options, out-of-network management, medication review services and clinical modeling. 

Directed Care Services 

CorVel offers a national directed care network that provides access to specialty medical services which may be required to support an injured worker&#146;s medical treatment plan. CorVel has contracted with medical imaging, physical therapy, diagnostics and ancillary service networks to offer convenient access, timely appointments and preferred rates for these services. The Company manages the entire coordination of care from appointment scheduling through reimbursement, working to achieve timely recovery and increased savings. The Company has directed care networks for CT and bone scans, diagnostic imaging, physical and occupational therapy, independent medical evaluations, durable medical equipment and transportation and translation. 

Medicare Solutions 

The Company offers solutions to help manage the requirements mandated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Services include Medicare Set Asides and Agent Reporting Services to help employers comply with new CMS reporting legislation. As an assigned agent, CorVel can provide services for Responsible Reporting Entities (RRE) such as insurers and employers. As an experienced information-processing provider, CorVel is able to electronically submit files to the CMS in compliance with timelines and reporting requirements. 

Clearinghouse Services 

CorVel&#146;s proprietary medical review software and claims management technology interfaces with multiple clearinghouses. The Company&#146;s clearinghouse services provide for medical review, conversion of electronic forms to appropriate payment formats, seamless submittal of bills for payments and rules engines used to help ensure jurisdictional compliance. 

Patient Management 

CorVel offers a unique approach to claims administration and patient management. This integrated service model controls claims by advocating medical management at the onset of the injury to decrease administrative costs and to shorten the length of the disability. This automated solution offers a personalized treatment program for each injured worker, using precise treatment protocols to meet the changing needs of patients on a frequent basis. The Company offers these services on a stand-alone basis or as an integrated component of its medical cost containment services. 

Claims Management 

CorVel has been a third party administrator (&#147;TPA&#148;) offering claims management services since January 2007. The Company serves customers in the self-insured or commercially-insured markets. Incidents and injuries are reported through a variety of intake methods that include a 24/7 nurse triage call center, website, mobile applications, toll-free call centers and traditional methods of paper and fax reporting. They are immediately processed by CorVel&#146;s proprietary rules engine, which provides alerts and recommendations throughout the life of a claim. This technology instantly assigns an expert claims professional, while simultaneously determining if a claim requires any immediate attention for triage. 

&#160;

Through this service, the Company serves clients in the self-insured or commercially-insured market through alternative loss funding methods, and provides them with a complete range of services, including claims administration, case management, and medical bill review. In addition to the field investigation and evaluation of claims, the Company also may provide initial loss reporting services for claims, loss mitigation services such as medical bill review and vocational rehabilitation, administration of trust funds established to pay claims and risk management information services. 

Some of the features of claims management services include: automated first notice of loss, three-point contact within 24 hours, prompt claims investigations, detailed diary notes for each step of the claim, graphical dashboards and claim history scorecards, and litigation management and expert testimony. 

Case Management 

CorVel&#146;s case management and utilization review services address all aspects of disability management and recovery including utilization review (pre-certification, concurrent review and discharge planning), early intervention, telephonic, field and catastrophic case management as well as vocational rehabilitation. 

The medical management components of CorVel&#146;s program focus on medical intervention, management and appropriateness. In these cases, the Company&#146;s case managers confer with the attending physician, other providers, the patient and the patient&#146;s family to identify the appropriate rehabilitative treatment and most cost-effective healthcare alternatives. The program is designed to offer the injured party prompt access to appropriate medical providers who will provide quality cost-effective medical care. Case managers may coordinate the services or care required and may arrange for special pricing of the required services. 

The Telephonic Case Manager (TCM) continues to impact the direction of the case, focusing on early return to work, maximum medical improvement (MMI) and appropriate duration of disability. Facilitation of appropriate treatment, assertive negotiation with medical providers and directing the care of the injured worker continues to be the Case Manager&#146;s role until the closure criteria is met. Utilization review of provider treatment remains ongoing until discharge from treatment. 

In the event that a claim may require an onsite referral, a Field Case Manager (FCM) will be assigned to the claim. Cases can be referred to CorVel based on geographic location and injury type to the most appropriate FCM. Specialized case management services include catastrophic management, life care planning, and vocational rehabilitation services. All FCMs have iPads that provide access to the Company&#146;s proprietary mobile applications that provide instant access to detailed case information and the ability to enter case notes. An additional feature of our iPad applications is the ability to electronically approve and email signed case management forms and documentation. 

24/7 Nurse Triage 

Injured workers can call at the time of injury or incident and speak with a registered nurse who specializes in occupational injuries. An assessment is immediately made to recommend self-care, or referral for further medical care if needed. CorVel is able to provide quick and accurate care intervention, often preventing a minor injury from becoming an expensive claim. The 24/7 nurse triage services provide channeling to a preferred network of providers, allows employer access to online case information, comprehensive incident gathering, and healthcare advocacy for injured workers. 

Utilization Management 

Utilization Management programs review proposed care to determine appropriateness, frequency, duration and setting. These programs utilize experienced registered nurses, proprietary medical treatment protocols and systems technology to avoid unnecessary treatments and associated costs. Processes in Utilization Management include: injury review, diagnosis and treatment planning; contacting and negotiating provider treatment 

&#160;

requirements; certifying appropriateness of treatment parameters, and responding to provider requests for additional treatment. Utilization management services include: prospective review, retrospective review, concurrent review, professional nurse review, second opinion, peer review, precertifications and independent medical evaluation. 

Vocational Rehabilitation 

CorVel&#146;s Vocational Rehabilitation program is designed for injured workers needing assistance returning to work or retaining employment. This comprehensive suite of services helps employees who are unable to perform previous work functions and who face the possibility of joining the open labor market to seek re-employment. These services are available unbundled, on an integrated basis as dictated by the requirement of each case and client preference, or by individual statutory requirements. Vocational rehabilitation services include ergonomic assessments, rehabilitation plans, transferable skills analysis, labor market services, job seeking skills, resum&#233; development, job analysis and development, job placement, career counseling and expert testimony. 

Life Care Planning 

Life Care Planning is used to project long-term future needs, services and related costs associated with a catastrophic injury. CorVel&#146;s Life Care Plans summarize extensive amounts of medical data and compile it into a comprehensive report for future care requirements, aiding improved outcomes and timely resolution of claims. The Life Care Plans also provide working guidelines and points of reference for the family of a disabled person. Some of the features of the Company&#146;s Life Care Planning services include: comprehensive documentation, projecting future care requirements, customized reporting, certified documentation and costs specific to local areas. 

Disability Management 

CorVel&#146;s disability management programs offer a continuum of services for short and long-term disability coverages that advocate an employee&#146;s early return to work. Disability management services include absence reporting, disability evaluations, national preferred provider organizations, independent medical examinations, utilization review, medical case management, return to work coordination and integrated reporting. 

Liability Claims Management 

CorVel also offers liability claims management services that can be sold as a stand-alone service or part of patient management. The Company&#146;s services include auto liability, general liability, product liability, personal injury, professional liability and property damage, accidents and weather-related damage. This service includes claims management, adjusting services, litigation management, claims subrogation, and investigations. 

Auto Claims Management 

Injury claims are one of the largest components of auto indemnity costs. Effective management of these claims and their associated costs, combined with an optimal healthcare management program, helps CorVel&#146;s customers reduce claim costs. The Company&#146;s auto claims services include national preferred provider organizations, medical bill review, first and third party bill review, first notice of loss, demand packet reviews and reporting and analytics. 

SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY 

Infrastructure and Data Center 

The Company utilizes a Tier III-rated data center as its primary processing site. Redundancy is provided at many levels in power, cooling, and computing resources, with the goal of ensuring maximum uptime and system availability for the Company&#146;s production systems. The Company has fully embraced server virtualization and consolidation techniques to push the fault-tolerance of systems even further. These technologies bring increased availability, speed-to-production and scalability. 

&#160;

Adoption of Imaging Technologies and Paperless Workflow 

Utilizing scanning and automated data capture processes allows the Company to process incoming paper and electronic claims documents, including medical bills, with less manual handling and which has improved the Company&#146;s workflow processes. This has benefited both the Company, in terms of cost-savings, and the Company&#146;s customers, in improved savings results. Through the Company&#146;s internet portal, www.caremc.com, customers can review the bills as soon as they are processed and approve a bill for payment, streamlining the customer&#146;s own workflows and expediting the payment process. 

Redundancy Center 

The Company&#146;s national data center is located near Portland, Oregon. The Company has migrated its redundancy center from Fort Worth, Texas to Las Vegas, Nevada. The redundancy center is the Company&#146;s backup processing site in the event that the Portland data center suffers catastrophic loss. Currently, the Company&#146;s data is continually replicated to Las Vegas in near-real time, so that in the event the Portland data center is offline, the redundancy center can be activated with current information quickly. The Las Vegas data center also hosts duplicates of the Company&#146;s websites. The Las Vegas systems are maintained and exercised on a continuous basis as they host demonstration and pilot environments that mirror production, with the goal of ensuring their ongoing readiness. 

CareMC SM 

CareMC (www.caremc.com) has become the application platform for all of the Company&#146;s primary service lines and delivers immediate access to customers. CareMC offers customers direct access to the Company&#146;s primary services. CareMC allows for electronic communication and reporting between providers, payers, employers and patients. Features of the website include: report an incident/injury, request for service, appointment scheduling, online bill review, claims information management, treatment calendar, medical bill adjudication and automated provider reimbursement. 

Through the CareMC Website, users can: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Request services online; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Manage files throughout the life of the claim; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Receive and relay case notes from case managers; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Integrate information from multiple claims management sources into one database. The CareMC website facilitates healthcare transaction processing. Using artificial intelligence techniques, the website provides situation alerts and event triggers, to facilitate prompt and effective decisions. Users of CareMC can quickly see where event outliers are occurring within the claims management process. If costs exceed pre-determined thresholds or activities fall outside expected timelines, decision-makers can be quickly notified. Large amounts of information are consolidated and summarized to help customers focus on the critical issues. 

Scanning Services 

We continue to leverage our scanning technologies which include scanning, optical character recognition and document management services. We continue to expand our existing office automation service line and all offices are selling scanning and document management. We have added scanning operations to most of the Company&#146;s larger offices around the country, designating them &#147;Capture Centers.&#148; Our scanning service also offers a web interface (www.onlinedocumentcenter.com) providing immediate access to documents and data called the Online Document Center (ODC). Secure document review, approval, transaction workflow and archival storage are available at subscription-based pricing. 

&#160;

Claims Processing 

We continue to develop our claims system capabilities which fit well with the Company&#146;s preference for owning and maintaining our own software assets. Integration projects, some already completed, are underway to present more of this claims-centric information available through the CareMC web portal. The Company&#146;s goal is to continue to modernize user interfaces, and to streamline the delivery of this information to our customers, giving more rapid feedback and putting real-time information in the hands of our customers. 

INDUSTRY, CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING 

CorVel serves a diverse group of customers that include insurers, third party administrators, self-administered employers, government agencies, municipalities, state funds, and numerous other industries. CorVel is able to provide workers&#146; compensation services to virtually any size employer and in any state or region of the United States. No single customer of the Company represented more than 10% of revenues in fiscal 2014, 2015 and 2016. Many claims management decisions in workers&#146; compensation are the responsibility of the local claims office of national or regional insurers. The Company&#146;s national branch office network enables the Company to market and offer its services at both a local and national account level. The Company is placing increasing emphasis on national account marketing. The sales and marketing activities of the Company are conducted primarily by account executives located in key geographic areas. 

COMPETITION AND MARKET CONDITIONS 

The healthcare cost containment industry is competitive and is subject to economic pressures for cost savings and legislative reforms. CorVel&#146;s primary competitors in the workers&#146; compensation market include third party administrators, managed care companies, large insurance carriers and numerous independent companies. Many of the Company&#146;s competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than the 

Company. Moreover, the Company&#146;s customers may establish the in-house capability of performing services offered by the Company. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult to add and retain customers, and the Company&#146;s business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 

The past few years have seen acceleration in the technology world, and advancements seem to be progressing at a pace that few, if any, have ever witnessed. The proliferation of smart phones and tablet computers allows the Company&#146;s clients to stay connected at any time, from anywhere. This capability provides immediate access and begins to present business opportunities that were previously predicated on a less connected environment. The Company continues to leverage the new wave of technology in order to connect all of the parties involved in the workers&#146; compensation process in ways that were unimaginable in the past. As with general health, the workers compensation line continues to migrate to being a medical management business, with policymakers, employers, and carriers struggling to manage and control the costs of medical care (Source &#147;National Council on Compensation Insurance&#148;). The Company will continue to focus the execution of its strategy to provide industry leading claims management and cost containment solutions to the market. 

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most jurisdictions require individuals who engage in claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities to be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, licensing laws and regulations generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS 

General 

Managed healthcare programs for workers&#146; compensation are subject to various laws and regulations. Both the nature and degree of applicable government regulation vary greatly depending upon the specific activities involved. Generally, parties that actually provide or arrange for the provision of healthcare services, assume 

&#160;

financial risk related to the provision of those services or undertake direct responsibility for making payment or payment decisions for those services. These parties are subject to a number of complex regulatory requirements that govern many aspects of their conduct and operations. 

In contrast, the management and information services provided by the Company to its customers typically have not been the subject of regulation by the federal government or the states. Since the managed healthcare field is a rapidly expanding and changing industry and the cost of providing healthcare continues to increase, it is possible that the applicable state and federal regulatory frameworks will expand to have a greater impact upon the conduct and operation of the Company&#146;s business. 

Under the current workers&#146; compensation system, employer insurance or self-funded coverage is governed by individual laws in each of the 50 states and by certain federal laws. The management and information services that make up the Company&#146;s managed care program serve markets that have developed largely in response to needs of insurers, employers and large TPAs, and generally have not been mandated by legislation or other government action. On the other hand, the vocational rehabilitation case management marketplace within the workers&#146; compensation system has been dependent upon the laws and regulations within those states that require the availability of specified rehabilitation services for injured workers. Similarly, the Company&#146;s fee schedule auditing services address market needs created by certain states&#146; enactment of maximum permissible fee schedules for workers&#146; compensation services. Changes in individual state regulation of workers&#146; compensation may create a greater or lesser demand for some or all of the Company&#146;s services or require the Company to develop new or modified services in order to meet the needs of the marketplace and compete effectively in that marketplace. 

Medical Cost Containment Legislation 

Historically, governmental strategies to contain medical costs in the workers&#146; compensation field have been generally limited to legislation on a state-by-state basis. For example, many states have implemented fee schedules that list maximum reimbursement levels for healthcare procedures. In certain states that have not authorized the use of a fee schedule, the Company adjusts bills to the usual and customary levels authorized by the payor. Opportunities for the Company&#146;s services could increase if more states legislate additional cost containment strategies. Conversely, the Company would be materially and adversely affected if states elect to reduce the extent of medical cost containment strategies available to insurance carriers and other payors, or adopt other strategies for cost containment that would not support a demand for the Company&#146;s services. 

SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN 

During fiscal 1997, the Company&#146;s Board of Directors approved the adoption of a Shareholder Rights Plan. The Shareholder Rights Plan provides for a dividend distribution to CorVel stockholders of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of CorVel&#146;s common stock under certain circumstances. In April 2002, the Board of Directors of CorVel approved an amendment to the Shareholder Rights Plan to extend the expiration date of the rights to February 10, 2012, set the exercise price of each right at $118, and enable Fidelity Management &#38; Research Company and its affiliates to purchase up to 18% of the shares of common stock of the Company without triggering the stockholder rights, with the limitations under the Shareholder Rights Plan remaining in effect for all other stockholders of the Company. In November 2008, the Company&#146;s Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Shareholder Rights Plan to extend the expiration date of the rights to February 10, 2022, remove the ability of Fidelity Management &#38; Research Company and its affiliates to purchase up to 18% of the shares of common stock of the Company without triggering the stockholder rights, substitute Computershare Trust Company, N.A. as the rights agent and effect certain technical changes to the Shareholder Rights Plan. 

The rights are designed to assure that all shareholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of the Company and to encourage a potential acquirer to negotiate with the Board of Directors prior to attempting a takeover. The rights have an exercise price of $118 per right, subject to subsequent adjustment. The rights trade with the Company&#146;s common stock and will not be exercisable until the occurrence of certain takeover-related events. 

&#160;

Generally, the Shareholder Rights Plan provides that if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company&#146;s common stock without the approval of the Board, subject to certain exception, the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, would, under certain circumstances, have the right to purchase additional shares of the Company&#146;s common stock having a market value equal to two times the then-current exercise price of the right. 

In addition, if the Company is thereafter merged into another entity, or if 50% or more of the Company&#146;s consolidated assets or earning power are sold, then the right will entitle its holder to buy common shares of the acquiring entity having a market value equal to two times the then-current exercise price of the right. The Company&#146;s Board of Directors may exchange or redeem the rights under certain conditions. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of March 31, 2016, CorVel had 3,508 employees, including nurses, therapists, counselors and other employees. No employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit. Management believes the Company&#146;s relationship with its employees to be good. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission, are available free of charge through our Web site (http://www.corvel.com, under the Investor section) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The inclusion of our Web site address and the address of any of our portals, such as www.caremc.com and www.onlinedocumentcenter.com, in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information contained on, or accessible through, such Web sites. 

&#160;

