 Item 1. Business 

ORGANIZATION

Capital Southwest Corporation (&#8220;CSWC&#8221;) is an investment company that specializes in providing customized financing to middle market companies in a broad range of industry segments located primarily in the United States. Our common stock currently trades on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol &#8220;CSWC.&#8221;

CSWC was organized as a Texas corporation on April 19, 1961. Until September 1969, we operated as a small business investment company (&#8220;SBIC&#8221;) licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958. At that time, CSWC transferred to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Capital Southwest Venture Corporation (&#8220;CSVC&#8221;), certain assets including our license as a "SBIC&#8221;. CSVC is a closed-end, non-diversified investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;1940 Act&#8221;). Prior to March 30, 1988, CSWC was registered as a closed-end, non-diversified investment company under the 1940 Act. On that date, we elected to be treated as a business development company (&#8220;BDC&#8221;) subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act, as amended by the Small Business Incentive Act of 1980. In order to remain a BDC, we must meet certain specified requirements under the 1940 Act, including investing at least 70% of our assets in eligible portfolio companies and limiting the amount of leverage we incur.

We are also a regulated investment company (&#8220;RIC&#8221;) under Subchapter M of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the &#8220;Code&#8221;). As such, we are not required to pay corporate-level income tax on our investment income. We intend to maintain our RIC status, which requires that we qualify annually as a RIC by meeting certain specified requirements. Because CSWC wholly owns CSVC, the portfolios of CSWC and CSVC are referred to collectively as "our," "we" and "us."

On September 30, 2015, we completed the spin-off of CSW Industrials, Inc. (&#8220;CSWI&#8221;). CSWI is now an independent publicly traded company. CSWI&#8217;s common stock trades on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol &#8220;CSWI.&#8221; CSWI&#8217;s assets and businesses consist of the Company&#8217;s former industrial products, coatings, sealants &#38; adhesives and specialty chemicals businesses and also include all the equity interest of The RectorSeal Corporation, The Whitmore Manufacturing Company, Balco, Inc., and CapStar Holdings Corporation.

Capital Southwest Management Corporation (&#8220;CSMC&#8221;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSWC, is the management company for CSWC and CSVC. CSMC generally incurs all normal operating and administrative expenses, including, but not limited to, salaries and related benefits, rent, equipment and other administrative costs required for day-to-day operations.

CSWC also has a direct wholly owned subsidiary that has been elected to be a taxable entity (the &#8220;Taxable Subsidiary&#8221;). The primary purpose of the Taxable Subsidiary is to permit CSWC to hold equity investments in portfolio companies which are &#8220;pass-through&#8221; entities for tax purposes. The Taxable Subsidiary is taxed at normal corporate tax rates based on its taxable income.

The following diagram depicts CSWC&#8217;s organizational structure:

&#160;

&#160;

Employees

As of March 31, 2016, we had fifteen employees, each of whom was employed by our management company, CSMC. These employees include our corporate officers, investment and portfolio management professionals and administrative staff. All of our employees are located in our principal executive offices in Dallas, Texas.

Corporate Information

Our principal executive offices are located at 5400 Lyndon B. Johnson Freeway, Suite 1300, Dallas, Texas 75240. We maintain a website at www.capitalsouthwest.com . You can review the filings we have made with the Securities Exchange Commission, the SEC, free of charge on EDGAR, the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System of the SEC, accessible at sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports and any other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and you should not consider that information to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The public may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains the reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov .

The charters adopted by the committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider that information to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS

We are a specialty lending company that provides customized financing to middle market companies located primarily in the United States. Our principal investment objective is to produce attractive risk-adjusted returns by generating current income from our debt investments and capital appreciation from our equity and equity related investments. Our investment strategy is to partner with business owners, management teams and financial sponsors to provide flexible financing solutions to fund growth, changes of control, or other corporate events. In allocating future investments, we plan to continue investing primarily in senior and subordinated debt securities secured by security interests in portfolio company assets, coupled with equity interests.

We focus on investing in companies with histories of generating revenues and positive cash flow, established market positions and proven management teams with strong operating discipline. We target senior and subordinated investments in the lower middle market and private loan transactions (club deals), as well as first and second lien syndicated loans in larger middle market companies. Our target lower middle market companies typically have annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (&#8220;EBITDA&#8221;) between $3.0 million and $15.0 million. Our target club deal companies typically have annual EBITDA between $15.0 million and $50.0 million. We believe that these middle market companies have less access to capital and that the market for such capital is underserved relative to larger companies. Companies of this size are generally privately held and are less well known to traditional capital sources such as commercial and investment banks. Our target companies for syndicated first and second lien loan investments are in large middle market companies that typically have annual EBITDA that is greater than $50 million. We make available significant managerial assistance to the companies in which we invest when we believe that providing managerial assistance to an investee company is critical to its business development activities.

Because we are internally managed, we do not pay external investment advisory fees, but instead directly incur the operating costs associated with employing investment and portfolio management professionals. We believe that our internally managed structure provides us with a beneficial operating expense structure when compared to other publicly traded and privately held investment firms which are externally managed, and our internally managed structure allows us the opportunity to leverage our non-interest operating expenses as we grow our investment portfolio.

&#160;

Recent Developments

In April 2016, we exited our investment in Freedom Truck Finance and received principal and accrued interest payments totaling $6.0 million. On June 7, 2016, we announced our Board of Directors had declared a $0.06 dividend per share for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The record date for the dividend is June 20, 2016. The payment date for the dividend is July 1, 2016.

Our Business Strategy

Our principal investment objective is to produce attractive risk-adjusted returns by generating current income from our debt investments and realizing capital appreciation from our equity and equity-related investments. We have adopted the following business strategies to achieve our investment objective:

&#183; Leveraging the Experience of Our Management Team . Our senior management team has extensive experience advising, investing in and lending to middle market companies across changing market cycles. The members of our management team have diverse investment backgrounds, with prior experience at investment banks, commercial banks, and business development companies in the capacity of senior officers. We believe this diverse experience provides us with an in-depth understanding of the strategic, financial and operational challenges and opportunities of the middle market companies in which we invest. We believe this understanding allows us to select and structure better investments and to efficiently monitor and provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. 

&#183; Applying Rigorous Underwriting Policies and Active Portfolio Management . &#160; Our senior management team has implemented rigorous underwriting policies that are followed in each transaction. These policies include a thorough analysis of each potential portfolio company&#8217;s competitive position, financial performance, management team operating discipline, growth potential and industry attractiveness, which we believe allows us to better assess the company&#8217;s prospects. After investing in a company, we monitor the investment closely, typically receiving monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements. As a team, we analyze and discuss in detail the company&#8217;s financial performance and industry trends monthly. We believe that our initial and ongoing portfolio review process allows us to monitor effectively the performance and prospects of our portfolio companies. 

&#183; Invest Across Multiple Companies, Industries, Regions and End Markets . &#160; We seek to maintain a portfolio of investments that is appropriately diverse among various companies, industries, geographic regions and end markets. This portfolio balance is intended to mitigate the potential effects of negative economic events for particular companies, regions, industries and end markets. However, we may from time to time hold securities of a single portfolio company that comprise more than 5% of our total assets and/or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the portfolio company. For that reason, we are classified as a non-diversified management investment company under the 1940 Act. 

&#183; Utilizing Long-Standing Relationships to Source Deals . &#160; Our senior management team and investment professionals maintain extensive relationships with entrepreneurs, financial sponsors, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, commercial bankers and other non-bank providers of capital who refer prospective portfolio companies to us. These relationships historically have generated significant investment opportunities. We believe that our network of relationships will continue to produce attractive investment opportunities. 

&#183; Focusing on Underserved Markets . &#160; The middle market has traditionally been underserved. We believe that operating margin and growth pressures, as well as regulatory concerns, have caused many financial institutions to de-emphasize services to middle market companies in favor of larger corporate clients and more liquid capital market transactions. We also invest in securities that would be rated below investment grade if they were rated. We believe these dynamics have resulted in the financing market for middle market companies being underserved, providing us with greater investment opportunities. 

&#160;

&#183; Focus on Established Companies . &#160; We generally invest in companies with established market positions, experienced management teams and recurring cash flow streams. We believe that those companies generally possess better risk adjusted return profiles than earlier stage companies that are building their management teams and establishing their revenue base. We also believe that established companies in our target size range generally provide opportunities for capital appreciation. 

&#183; Providing Customized Financing Solutions . &#160; We offer a variety of financing structures and have the flexibility to structure our investments to meet the needs of our portfolio companies. Often we invest in senior and subordinated debt securities, coupled with equity interests. We believe our ability to customize financing structures makes us an attractive partner to middle market companies. 

INVESTMENT CRITERIA AND OBJECTIVES

Our investment team has identified the following investment criteria that we believe are important in evaluating prospective investment opportunities. However, not all of these criteria have been or will be met in connection with each of our investments:

&#183; Companies with Positive and Sustainable Cash Flow : We generally seek to invest in established companies with sound historical financial performance. 

&#183; Excellent Management : Management teams with a proven record of achievement, exceptional ability, unyielding determination and unquestionable integrity. We believe management teams with these attributes are more likely to manage the companies in a manner that protects and enhances value. 

&#183; Industry : We primarily focus on companies having competitive advantages in their respective markets and/or operating in industries with barriers to entry, which may help protect their market position. 

&#183; Strong Private Equity Sponsors: We focus on developing relationships with leading private equity firms in order to partner with these firms and provide them capital to support the acquisition and growth of their portfolio companies. 

&#183; Appropriate Risk-Adjusted Returns: We focus on and price opportunities to generate returns that are attractive on a risk-adjusted basis, taking into consideration factors, in addition to the ones depicted above, including credit structure, leverage levels and the general volatility of cash flows. 

&#183; Location: We primarily focus on companies located in the United States. Each new investment is evaluated for its appropriateness within our existing portfolio. Acquisition candidates for our existing portfolio companies may be located worldwide. 

&#160;

Investment Process

We have an investment committee that is responsible for all aspects of our investment process relating to investments made by CSWC. The members of the investment committee are Bowen Diehl, Michael Sarner, Douglas Kelley and Joseph Armes.

Our investment strategy involves a team approach, whereby our investment team screens potential transactions before they are presented to the investment committee for approval. Transactions that are either over a certain hold size or outside our general investment policy will also be reviewed and approved by the board of directors of CSWC (the &#8220;Board of Directors&#8221;). Our investment team generally categorizes the investment process into six distinctive stages:

&#160;

&#183; Deal Generation/Origination : Deal generation and origination is maximized through long-standing and extensive relationships with private equity firms, leveraged loan syndication desks, brokers, commercial and investment bankers, entrepreneurs, service providers such as lawyers and accountants, and current and former portfolio companies and investors. 

&#160;

&#183; Screening : Once it is determined that a potential investment has met our investment criteria, we will screen the investment by performing preliminary due diligence, which could include discussions with the private equity firm, management team, loan syndication desk, etc. Upon successful screening of the proposed investment, the investment team makes a recommendation to move forward and prepares an initial screening memo for the CSWC investment committee. We then issue either a non-binding term sheet (in the case of a directly originated transaction), or submit an order to the loan syndication desk (in the case of a large-market syndicated loan transaction). 

&#160;

&#183; Term Sheet : In a directly originated transaction, the non-binding term sheet will typically include the key economic terms of our investment proposal, along with exclusivity, confidentiality, and expense reimbursement provisions, among other terms relevant to the particular investment. Upon acceptance of the term sheet, we will begin our formal due diligence process. In a syndicated loan transaction, rather than a formal term sheet, we will submit an order for an allocation to the syndicated loan desk. 

&#160;

&#183; Due Diligence : Due diligence is performed under the direction of our senior investment professionals, involving the entire investment team as well as certain external resources, who together perform due diligence to understand the relationships among the prospective portfolio company&#8217;s business plan, operations, financial performance, and legal risks. On our directly originated transactions, our due diligence will often include (1) conducting site visits with management and key personnel; (2) performing a detailed review of historical and projected financial statements, often with a third-party accounting firm, to evaluate the target company&#8217;s normalized cash flow; (3) interviewing key customers and suppliers; (4) evaluating company management, including a formal background check; (5) reviewing material contracts; (6) conducting an industry, market and strategy analysis; and (7) obtaining a review by legal, environmental or other consultants. In instances where a financial sponsor is investing in the equity in a transaction, we will leverage work done by the financial sponsor for purposes of our due diligence. In syndicated loan transactions, our due diligence may exclude direct customer and supplier interviews, and be limited to review of reports from the financial sponsor or syndication agent for industry and market analysis, and legal and environmental diligence. 

&#160;

&#183; Document and Close : Upon completion of a satisfactory due diligence review, our investment team presents its written findings to the investment committee. For transactions that are either over a certain hold size, or outside our general investment policy, the investment team will present the transaction to our Board of Directors for approval. Upon approval for the investment, we re-confirm our regulatory company compliance, process and finalize all required legal documents and fund the investment. 

&#160;

&#183; Post-Investment : We continuously monitor the status and progress of our portfolio companies, as well as our investment thesis developed at the time of investment. We offer managerial assistance to our portfolio companies and provide them access to our investment experience, direct industry expertise and contacts. The same investment team leader that was involved in the investment process will continue to be involved in the portfolio company post-investment. This approach provides continuity of knowledge and allows the investment team to maintain a strong business relationship with the financial sponsor and key management of our portfolio companies. As part of the monitoring process, members of our investment team will analyze monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements against previous periods, review financial projections, meet with the financial sponsor and management (when necessary), attend board meetings (where appropriate) and review all compliance certificates and covenants. 

&#160;

During the quarter ended December 31, 2015, we established an internally developed investment rating system to rate the performance and monitor the expected level of returns for each debt investment in our portfolio. The investment rating system takes into account both quantitative and qualitative factors of the portfolio company and the investments held therein, including each investment&#8217;s expected level of returns and the collectability of our debt investments, comparisons to competitors and other industry participants and the portfolio company's future outlook. The ratings are not intended to reflect the performance or expected level of returns of our equity investments.

&#160;

&#183; Investment Rating 1 represents the least amount of risk in our portfolio. The investment is performing above underwriting expectations and the trends and risk factors are favorable. 

&#160;

&#183; Investment Rating 2 indicates the investment is performing as expected at the time of underwriting and the risk factors are neutral to favorable. 

&#160;

&#183; Investment Rating 3 involves an investment performing below underwriting expectations and indicates that the investment requires closer monitoring. The portfolio company or investment may be out of compliance with financial covenants and interest payments may be impaired, however principal payments are generally not past due. 

&#160;

&#183; Investment Rating 4 indicates that the investment is performing materially below underwriting expectations and the risk of the investment has increased substantially. Interest and principal payments on our investment are likely to be impaired. 

&#160;

Determination of Net Asset Value and Portfolio Valuation Process

We determine our net asset value (&#8220;NAV&#8221;) per share on a quarterly basis. The NAV per share is equal to our total assets minus liabilities divided by the total number of shares of common stock outstanding.

We determine in good faith the fair value of our portfolio investments pursuant to a valuation policy in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (&#8220;ASC&#8221;) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (&#8220;ASC 820&#8221;) and a valuation process approved by our Board of Directors and in accordance with the 1940 Act. Our valuation policy is intended to provide a consistent basis for determining the fair value of the portfolio.

We undertake a multi-step valuation process each quarter in connection with determining the fair value of our investments. Our Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. The valuation process is led by the finance department in conjunction with the investment teams. Valuations of each portfolio security are prepared quarterly by the finance department using updated portfolio company financial and operational information. Each investment valuation is also subject to review by the executive officers and investment teams.

In conjunction with the internal valuation process, we have engaged an independent consulting firm that specializes in financial due diligence, valuation, asset-backed lending services, and business advisory services, to provide a third-party valuation review of certain of our investments. Our Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for determining the fair value of our investments in good faith.

COMPETITION

We compete for attractive investment opportunities with other financial institutions, including business development companies, junior capital lenders, and banks. We believe we are able to be competitive with these entities primarily on the basis of the experience and contacts of our management team and our responsive and efficient investment analysis and decision-making processes. However, many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Furthermore, our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and build their market shares. In addition, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Business and Structure&#8212;We Operate in a Highly Competitive Market for Investment Opportunities.&#8221;

We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of this competition, we may be unable to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and may be unable to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or meet our investment goals.

&#160;

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN

&#160;

We have adopted a dividend reinvestment plan ("DRIP") that provides for the reinvestment of dividends on behalf of our shareholders. Under the DRIP, if we declare a dividend, registered shareholders who have opted into the DRIP as of the dividend record date will have their dividend automatically reinvested into additional shares of our common stock. The share requirements of the DRIP may be satisfied through the issuance of new shares of common stock or through open market purchases of common stock by the DRIP plan administrator. Newly-issued shares will be valued based upon the final closing price of CSWC&#8217;s common stock on a valuation date determined for each dividend by our Board of Directors. Shares purchased in the open market to satisfy the DRIP requirements will be valued based upon the average price of the applicable shares purchased by the DRIP plan administrator, before any associated brokerage or other costs.

&#160;

ELECTION TO BE REGULATED AS A BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY AND REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANY

Both CSWC and CSVC individually are closed-end, non-diversified management investment companies. CSWC has elected to be treated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. In addition, we have elected for both CSWC and CSVC to be treated as RICs under Subchapter M of the Code. Our election to be regulated as a BDC and our election to be treated as a RIC for federal income tax purposes have a significant impact on our operations. Some of the most important effects on our operations of our election to be regulated as a BDC and our election to be treated as a RIC are outlined below.

&#183; We report our investments at market value or fair value with changes in value reported through our consolidated statements of operations. 

In accordance with the requirements of Article 6 of Regulation S-X, we report all of our investments, including debt investments, at market value or, for investments that do not have a readily available market value, at their &#8220;fair value&#8221; as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Changes in these values are reported through our statements of operations under the caption of &#8220;net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments.&#8221; See &#8220;Determination of Net Asset Value and Portfolio Valuation Process&#8221; above.

&#183; We intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our shareholders. We generally will be required to pay income taxes only on the portion of our taxable income we do not distribute to shareholders (actually or constructively). 

As a RIC, so long as we meet certain minimum distribution, source of income and asset diversification requirements, we generally are required to pay U.S. federal income taxes only on the portion of our taxable income and gains we do not distribute (actually or constructively) and certain built-in gains. We intend to distribute to our shareholders substantially all of our income. We may, however, make deemed distributions to our shareholders of any retained net long-term capital gains. If this happens, our shareholders will be treated as if they received an actual distribution of the net capital gains and reinvested the net after-tax proceeds in us. Our shareholders also may be eligible to claim a tax credit (or, in certain circumstances, a tax refund) equal to their allocable share of the corporate-level U.S. federal income tax we pay on the deemed distribution. See &#8220;Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.&#8221; We met the minimum distribution requirements for tax years 2013, 2014 and 2015 and continually monitor our distribution requirements with the goal of ensuring compliance with the Code.

&#160;

In addition, we have a wholly-owned taxable subsidiary, or the Taxable Subsidiary, which holds a portion of one or more of our portfolio investments that are listed on the Consolidated Schedule of Investments. The Taxable Subsidiary is consolidated for financial reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;), so that our consolidated financial statements reflect our investments in the portfolio companies owned by the Taxable Subsidiary. The purpose of the Taxable Subsidiary is to permit us to hold certain interests in portfolio companies that are organized as limited liability companies, or LLCs (or other forms of pass-through entities) and still satisfy the RIC tax requirement that at least 90.0% of our gross income for federal income tax purposes must consist of qualifying investment income. Absent the Taxable Subsidiary, a proportionate amount of any gross income of a partnership or LLC (or other pass-through entity) portfolio investment would flow through directly to us. To the extent that such income did not consist of investment income, it could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a RIC and therefore cause us to incur significant amounts of corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes. Where interests in LLCs (or other pass-through entities) are owned by the Taxable Subsidiary, however, the income from those interests is taxed to the Taxable Subsidiary and does not flow through to us, thereby helping us preserve our RIC status and resultant tax advantages. The Taxable Subsidiary is not consolidated for U.S. federal income tax purposes and may generate income tax expense as a result of their ownership of the portfolio companies. This income tax expense, if any, is reflected in our Statement of Operations.

&#183; Our ability to use leverage as a means of financing our portfolio of investments is limited. 

As a BDC, we are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities of at least 200.0%. For this purpose, senior securities include all borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future. Additionally, our ability to utilize leverage as a means of financing our portfolio of investments may be limited by this asset coverage test. While the use of leverage may enhance returns if we meet our investment objective, our returns may be reduced or eliminated if our returns on investments are less than the costs of borrowing.

&#183; We are required to comply with the provisions of the 1940 Act applicable to business development companies. 

As a BDC, we are required to have a majority of directors who are not &#8220;interested&#8221; persons under the 1940 Act. In addition, we are required to comply with other applicable provisions of the 1940 Act, including those requiring the adoption of a code of ethics, fidelity bonding and investment custody arrangements. See &#8220;Regulation as a Business Development Company&#8221; below.

Regulation as a Business Development Company

We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates and principal underwriters as well as their respective affiliates. The 1940 Act requires that a majority of the members of the board of directors of a BDC be persons other than &#8220;interested persons,&#8221; as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities.

The 1940 Act defines &#8220;a majority of the outstanding voting securities&#8221; as the lesser of (1) 67% or more of the voting securities of holders present or represented by proxy at a meeting if the holders of more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities are present or represented by proxy or (2) more than 50% of our voting securities.

The following is a brief description of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 1940 Act and rules issued thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;).

&#183; Generally, to be eligible to elect BDC status, a company must primarily engage in the business of furnishing capital and making significant managerial assistance available to companies that do not have ready access to conventional financial channels. Companies that satisfy certain additional criteria are defined as "eligible portfolio companies." In general, in order to qualify as a BDC, a company must: (1) be a domestic company; (2) have registered a class of its securities pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act; (3) operate for the purpose of investing in the securities of certain types of eligible portfolio companies, including early stage or emerging companies and businesses suffering or just recovering from financial distress (see following paragraph); (4) make available significant managerial assistance to such portfolio companies; and (5) file a proper notice of election with the SEC. 

&#160;

&#183; An eligible portfolio company generally is a domestic company that is not an investment company or is excluded from investment company status pursuant to exclusions for certain types of financial companies (such as brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies and investment banking firms) and that: (1) does not have a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange; (2) has a class of equity securities listed on a national securities exchange with a market capitalization of less than $250 million; or (3) is controlled by the BDC itself or together with others and has a representative on the board of directors of the company controlled by the BDC. The 1940 Act presumes that a person has &#8220;control&#8221; of a portfolio company if that person owns at least 25% of its outstanding voting securities. 

&#160;

&#183; As a BDC, we are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company. Furthermore, as a BDC, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to us or our shareholders arising from willful malfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of that person&#8217;s office. 

&#160;

&#183; We are required to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation and designate a chief compliance officer to be responsible for administering these policies and procedures. 

Qualifying Assets

The 1940 Act provides that we may not make an investment in non-qualifying assets unless at the time of the investment at least 70% of the value of our total assets (measured as of the date of our most recently filed financial statements) consists of qualifying assets (the &#8220;70% test&#8221;). Qualifying assets include: (1) securities of eligible portfolio companies; (2) securities of certain companies that were eligible portfolio companies at the time we initially acquired their securities and in which we retain a substantial interest; (3) securities of certain controlled companies; (4) securities of certain bankrupt, insolvent or distressed companies; (5) securities received in exchange for or distributed in or with respect to any of the foregoing; and (6) cash items, U.S. government securities and high-quality short-term debt. The SEC has adopted a rule permitting a BDC to invest its funds in certain money market funds. The 1940 Act also places certain restrictions on the nature of the transactions in which, and the persons from whom, securities can be purchased and be considered qualifying assets.

Managerial Assistance to Portfolio Companies

In order to count portfolio securities as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test, we must either control the issuer of the securities or must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance. However, where we purchase securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance. Making available managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, provides, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company.

Idle Fund Investments

We hold funds that may soon be invested in &#8220;qualifying assets.&#8221; We may hold these funds in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, short-term investments in secured debt investments, independently rated debt investments and diversified bond funds. We refer to these investments as idle fund investments.

Senior Securities

We are permitted by the 1940 Act, under specific conditions, to issue multiple classes of debt and a single class of preferred stock if our asset coverage, as defined by the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such issuance of debt or preferred stock (i.e. senior securities may not be in excess of our net assets). Under specific conditions, we are also permitted by the 1940 Act to issue warrants.

&#160;

Common Stock

&#160; As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, exclusive of any distributing commission or discount, without shareholder approval. Shares of our common stock have traded below our NAV per share. While our common stock continues to trade at a price below our NAV per share, there are no assurances that we can issue or sell shares of our common stock if needed to fund our business. In addition, even in certain instances where we could issue or sell shares of our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, such issuance could result in dilution in our NAV per share, which could result in a decline of our stock price.

Code of Ethics

We adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to the code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as those investments are made in accordance with the code&#8217;s requirements. Certain transactions involving certain persons closely related to us, including our directors, officers and employees, may require approval of the SEC. However, the 1940 Act ordinarily does not restrict transactions between us and our portfolio companies.

Compliance Policies and Procedures

We have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the U.S. federal securities laws, and are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation, and to designate a Chief Compliance Officer to be responsible for administering these policies and procedures. Michael S. Sarner serves as our Chief Compliance Officer.

Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures

We vote proxies relating to our portfolio securities in a manner which we believe will be in the best interest of our shareholders. We review on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted to a shareholder vote to determine its impact on the portfolio securities held by us. Although we generally vote against proposals that may have a negative impact on our portfolio securities, we may vote for such a proposal if there exists compelling long-term reasons to do so.

Our proxy voting decisions are made by the investment professionals who are responsible for monitoring each of our investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, we require that: (1) anyone involved in the decision making process disclose to our Chief Compliance Officer any potential conflict that he or she is aware of and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote; and (2) employees involved in the decision making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties.

Shareholders may, without charge, obtain information regarding how we voted proxies with respect to our portfolio securities by making a written request for proxy voting information to: Chief Compliance Officer, 5400 Lyndon B. Johnson Freeway, Suite 1300, Dallas, Texas 75240.

Regulation as a Regulated Investment Company

Election to be Taxed as a RIC

We have qualified and elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As a RIC, we generally are not subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes on any income that we distribute to our shareholders from our tax earnings and profits. To qualify as a RIC, we must, among other things, meet certain source-of-income and asset diversification requirements (as described below). In addition, in order to obtain RIC tax treatment, we must distribute to our shareholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our &#8220;investment company taxable income,&#8221; which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gain over realized net long-term capital loss, or the Annual Distribution Requirement. Even if we qualify as a RIC, we generally will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and could be subject to U.S. federal excise, state, local and foreign taxes.

&#160;

Taxation as a RIC

Provided that we qualify as a RIC, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our investment company taxable income and net capital gain (which we define as net long-term capital gain in excess of net short-term capital loss) that we timely distribute to shareholders. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on any income or capital gain not distributed (or deemed distributed) to our shareholders.

We will be subject to a 4.0% nondeductible U.S. federal excise tax on certain undistributed income unless we distribute in a timely manner an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98.0% of our ordinary income for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income for the one year period ended October 31 and (3) any income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding years and on which we paid no U.S. federal income tax.

&#160;

In order to qualify as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must, among other things:

&#183; Meet the Annual Distribution Requirement; 

&#183; Qualify to be treated as a BDC or be registered as a management investment company under the 1940 Act at all times during each taxable year; 

&#183; Derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of stock or other securities or foreign currencies or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock, securities or currencies and net income derived from an interest in a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221; (as defined in the Code), or the 90% Income Test; and 

&#183; Diversify our holdings so that at the end of each quarter of the taxable year: 

o at least 50% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities if such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of the value of our assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer (which for these purposes includes the equity securities of a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221;); and 

o no more than 25% of the value of our assets is invested in the securities, other than U.S. Government securities or securities of other RICs, (1) of one issuer (2) of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable tax rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or (3) of one or more &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnerships,&#8221; or the Diversification Tests. 

To the extent that we invest in entities treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes (other than a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221;), we generally must include the items of gross income derived by the partnerships for purposes of the 90% Income Test, and the income that is derived from a partnership (other than a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221;) will be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test only to the extent that such income is attributable to items of income of the partnership which would be qualifying income if realized by us directly. In addition, we generally must take into account our proportionate share of the assets held by partnerships (other than a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221;) in which we are a partner for purposes of the Diversification Tests.

&#160;

In order to meet the 90% Income Test, we have established a special purpose entity, and in the future may establish additional such entities, to hold assets from which we do not anticipate earning dividend, interest or other income under the 90% Income Test (the &#8220;Taxable Subsidiary&#8221;). Any investments held through a Taxable Subsidiary generally are subject to U.S. federal income and other taxes, and therefore we can expect to achieve a reduced after-tax yield on such investments.

We may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with payment-in-kind interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash.

Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our shareholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.

Furthermore, a portfolio company in which we invest may face financial difficulty that requires us to work-out, modify or otherwise restructure our investment in the portfolio company. Any such restructuring may result in unusable capital losses and future non-cash income. Any restructuring may also result in our recognition of a substantial amount of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test, such as cancellation of indebtedness income in connection with the work-out of a leveraged investment (which, while not free from doubt, may be treated as non-qualifying income) or the receipt of other non-qualifying income.

Gain or loss realized by us from warrants acquired by us as well as any loss attributable to the lapse of such warrants generally will be treated as capital gain or loss. Such gain or loss generally will be long-term or short-term, depending on how long we held a particular warrant.

Investments by us in non-U.S. securities may be subject to non-U.S. income, withholding and other taxes, and therefore, our yield on any such securities may be reduced by such non-U.S. taxes. Shareholders will generally not be entitled to claim a credit or deduction with respect to non-U.S. taxes paid by us.

We are authorized to borrow funds and to sell assets in order to satisfy distribution requirements. Under the 1940 Act, we are not permitted to make distributions to our shareholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain &#8220;asset coverage&#8221; tests are met. See &#8220;Regulation as a Business Development Company&#8221; above. Moreover, our ability to dispose of assets to meet our distribution requirements may be limited by (1) the illiquid nature of our portfolio and/or (2) other requirements relating to our status as a RIC, including the Diversification Tests. If we dispose of assets in order to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement or to avoid the excise tax, we may make such dispositions at times that, from an investment standpoint, are not advantageous.

If we fail to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement or otherwise fail to qualify as a RIC in any taxable year, we will be subject to tax in that year on all of our taxable income, regardless of whether we make any distributions to our shareholders. In that case, all of such income will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, reducing the amount available to be distributed to our shareholders. See &#8220;Failure To Obtain RIC Tax Treatment&#8221; below.

As a RIC, we are not allowed to carry forward or carry back a net operating loss for purposes of computing our investment company taxable income in other taxable years. U.S. federal income tax law generally permits a RIC to carry forward (1) the excess of its net short-term capital loss over its net long-term capital gain for a given year as a short-term capital loss arising on the first day of the following year and (2) the excess of its net long-term capital loss over its net short-term capital gain for a given year as a long-term capital loss arising on the first day of the following year. Future transactions we engage in may cause our ability to use any capital loss carryforwards, and unrealized losses once realized, to be limited under Section 382 of the Code. Certain of our investment practices may be subject to special and complex U.S. federal income tax provisions that may, among other things, (1) disallow, suspend or otherwise limit the allowance of certain losses or deductions, (2) convert lower taxed long-term capital gain and qualified dividend income into higher taxed short-term capital gain or ordinary income, (3) convert an ordinary loss or a deduction into a capital loss (the deductibility of which is more limited), (4) cause us to recognize income or gain without a corresponding receipt of cash, (5) adversely affect the time as to when a purchase or sale of stock or securities is deemed to occur, (6) adversely alter the characterization of certain complex financial transactions and (7) produce income that will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test. We will monitor our transactions and may make certain tax elections in order to mitigate the effect of these provisions.

&#160;

As described above, to the extent that we invest in equity securities of entities that are treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of such investments for purposes of the 90% Income Test and the Diversification Tests will depend on whether or not the partnership is a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership&#8221; (as defined in the Code). If the entity is a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership,&#8221; the net income derived from such investments will be qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test and will be &#8220;securities&#8221; for purposes of the Diversification Tests. If the entity is not treated as a &#8220;qualified publicly traded partnership,&#8221; however, the consequences of an investment in the partnership will depend upon the amount and type of income and assets of the partnership allocable to us. The income derived from such investments may not be qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test and, therefore, could adversely affect our qualification as a RIC. We intend to monitor our investments in equity securities of entities that are treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes to prevent our disqualification as a RIC.

We may invest in preferred securities or other securities the U.S. federal income tax treatment of which may not be clear or may be subject to recharacterization by the IRS. To the extent the tax treatment of such securities or the income from such securities differs from the expected tax treatment, it could affect the timing or character of income recognized, requiring us to purchase or sell securities, or otherwise change our portfolio, in order to comply with the tax rules applicable to RICs under the Code.

We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or shares of our common stock at the election of each shareholder. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable in cash or in shares of stock at the election of shareholders are treated as taxable dividends. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even where the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many shareholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such shareholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. If we decide to make any distributions consistent with these rulings that are payable in part in our stock, taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (whether received in cash, our stock, or a combination thereof) as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.

Failure to Obtain RIC Tax Treatment

If we fail to satisfy the 90% Income Test or the Diversification Tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a RIC for that year if certain relief provisions are applicable (which may, among other things, require us to pay certain corporate-level federal taxes or to dispose of certain assets).

&#160;

If we were unable to obtain tax treatment as a RIC, we would be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be able to deduct distributions to shareholders, nor would they be required to be made. Distributions would generally be taxable to our shareholders as dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (in the case of non-corporate U.S. shareholders, generally at a maximum federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income of 20.0%). Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees would be eligible for the dividends-received deduction. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the shareholder&#8217;s tax basis, and any remaining distributions would be treated as a capital gain.

If we fail to meet the RIC requirements for more than two consecutive years and then, seek to re-qualify as a RIC, we would be subject to corporate-level taxation on any built-in gain recognized during the succeeding 5-year period unless we made a special election to recognize all that built-in gain upon our re-qualification as a RIC and to pay the corporate-level tax on that built-in gain.

SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY REGULATIONS

CSVC is licensed by the Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) to operate as an SBIC under Section 301(c) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.

SBICs are designed to stimulate the flow of private equity capital to eligible small businesses. Under SBIC regulations, an SBIC may make loans to eligible small businesses, invest in equity securities of those businesses and provide them with consulting and advisory services.

Under current SBIC regulations, eligible small businesses generally include businesses that (together with their affiliates) have a tangible net worth not exceeding $19.5 million and have average annual net income after federal income taxes not exceeding $6.5 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, an SBIC must devote at least 25% of its investment activity to &#8220;smaller&#8221; enterprises as defined by the SBA. A smaller enterprise generally includes businesses that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $6 million and have average annual net income after federal income taxes not exceeding $2 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any net carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. SBIC regulations also provide alternative size standard criteria to determine eligibility for designation as an eligible small business or smaller concern, which criteria depend on the primary industry in which the business is engaged and are based on factors such as the number of employees and gross revenue. However, once an SBIC has invested in a company, it may continue to make follow-on investments in the company, regardless of the size of the portfolio company at the time of the follow-on investment, up to the time of the portfolio company&#8217;s initial public offering.

The SBA prohibits an SBIC from providing funds (1) to small businesses for certain purposes, such as relending and investment outside the United States, (2) to businesses engaged in certain prohibited industries, and (3) to certain &#8220;passive&#8221; (non-operating) companies. In addition, without prior SBA approval, an SBIC may not invest an amount equal to more than approximately 30% of the SBIC&#8217;s regulatory capital in any one portfolio company and its affiliates.

The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies (such as limiting the permissible interest rate on debt securities held by an SBIC in a portfolio company). Although prior regulations prohibited an SBIC from controlling a small business concern except in limited circumstances, regulations adopted by the SBA in 2002 now allow an SBIC to exercise control over a small business for a period of seven years from the date on which the SBIC initially acquires its control position. This control period may be extended for an additional period of time with the SBA&#8217;s prior written approval.

The SBA restricts the ability of an SBIC to lend money to any of its officers, directors and employees or to invest in affiliates thereof. The SBA also prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a &#8220;change of control&#8221; of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of any class of capital stock of a licensed SBIC. A &#8220;change of control&#8221; is any event which would result in the transfer of the power, direct or indirect, to direct the management and policies of an SBIC, whether through ownership, contractual arrangements or otherwise.

An SBIC (or group of SBICs under common control) may generally have outstanding debentures guaranteed by the SBA in amounts up to twice the amount of the privately-raised funds of the SBIC(s). Debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of 10 years, require semi-annual payments of interest, and do not require any principal payments prior to maturity. As of March 31, 2016 and 2015, we had no SBA-guaranteed debentures.

&#160;

SBICs must invest idle funds that are not being used to make loans in investments permitted under SBIC regulations in the following limited types of securities: (1) direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States government, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment; (2) repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions with a maturity of seven days or less (and the securities underlying the repurchase obligations must be direct obligations of or guaranteed by the federal government); (3) certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution; (4) deposit accounts in a federally insured institution that is subject to a withdrawal restriction of one year or less; (5) checking accounts in a federally insured institution; or (6) a reasonable petty cash fund.

SBICs are periodically examined and audited by the SBA&#8217;s staff to determine their compliance with SBIC regulations and are periodically required to file forms with the SBA.

MATERIAL U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

The following discussion is a general summary of the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to us and to an investment in our shares. This summary does not purport to be a complete description of the income tax considerations applicable to us or to investors in such an investment. For example, we have not described tax consequences that we assume to be generally known by investors or certain considerations that may be relevant to certain types of holders subject to special treatment under U.S. federal income tax laws, including shareholders subject to the alternative minimum tax, tax-exempt organizations, insurance companies, dealers in securities, pension plans and trusts, financial institutions, U.S. shareholders (as defined below) whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, persons who mark-to-market our shares and persons who hold our shares as part of a &#8220;straddle,&#8221; &#8220;hedge&#8221; or &#8220;conversion&#8221; transaction. This summary assumes that investors hold shares of our common stock as capital assets (within the meaning of the Code). The discussion is based upon the Code, Treasury regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations, each as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and all of which are subject to change, possibly retroactively, which could affect the continuing validity of this discussion. This summary does not discuss any aspects of U.S. estate or gift tax or foreign, state or local tax. It does not discuss the special treatment under U.S. federal income tax laws that could result if we invested in tax-exempt securities or certain other investment assets.

For purposes of our discussion, a &#8220;U.S. shareholder&#8221; means a beneficial owner of shares of our common stock that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes:

&#183; A citizen or individual resident of the United States; 

&#183; A corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any state thereof of the District of Columbia; 

&#183; An estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or 

&#183; A trust if (1) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one of more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (2) it has a valid election in place to be treated as a U.S. person. 

For purposes of our discussion, a &#8220;Non-U.S. shareholder&#8221; means a beneficial owner of shares of our common stock that is neither a U.S. shareholder nor a partnership (including an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes).

If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes (a &#8220;partnership&#8221;) holds shares of our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner or member of the partnership will generally depend upon the status of the partner or member and the activities of the partnership. A prospective shareholder that is a partner or member in a partnership holding shares of our common stock should consult his, her or its tax advisors with respect to the purchase, ownership and disposition of shares of our common stock.

Tax matters are very complicated and the tax consequences to an investor of an investment in our shares will depend on the facts of his, her or its particular situation. We encourage investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the specific consequences of such an investment, including tax reporting requirements, the applicability of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax laws, eligibility for the benefits of any applicable tax treaty and the effect of any possible changes in the tax laws.

&#160;

Taxation of U.S. Shareholders

Whether an investment in shares of our common stock is appropriate for a U.S. shareholder will depend upon that person&#8217;s particular circumstances. An investment in shares of our common stock by a U.S. shareholder may have adverse tax consequences. The following summary generally describes certain U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock by taxable U.S. shareholders and not by U.S. shareholders that are generally exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. U.S. shareholders should consult their own tax advisors before making an investment in our common stock.

Distributions by us generally are taxable to U.S. shareholders as ordinary income or capital gain. Distributions of our &#8220;investment company taxable income&#8221; (which generally is our ordinary income excluding net capital gain) will be taxable as ordinary income to U.S. shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, whether paid in cash or reinvested in additional common stock. To the extent such distributions paid by us to non-corporate U.S. shareholders (including individuals) are attributable to dividends from U.S. corporations and certain qualified foreign corporations, such distributions generally will be eligible for taxation at rates applicable to &#8220;qualifying dividends&#8221; at a maximum federal income tax rate of 20% provided that we properly report such distribution as &#8220;qualified dividend income&#8221; in a written statement furnished to our shareholders and certain holding period and other requirements are satisfied. In this regard, it is not anticipated that a significant portion of distributions paid by us will be attributable to qualifying dividends; therefore, our distributions generally will not qualify for the preferential rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Distributions of our net capital gain (which generally is our net long-term capital gain in excess of net short-term capital loss) properly designated by us as &#8220;capital gain dividends&#8221; will be taxable to a U.S. shareholder as long-term capital gain (at a maximum federal income tax rate of 20% in the case of individuals, trusts or estates), regardless of the U.S. shareholder&#8217;s holding period for his, her or its common stock and regardless of whether paid in cash or reinvested in additional common stock. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits first will reduce a U.S. shareholder&#8217;s adjusted tax basis in such shareholder&#8217;s common stock and, after the adjusted basis is reduced to zero, will constitute capital gain to such U.S. shareholder.

In lieu of actually distributing our realized net capital gains, we may retain some or all of our long-term capital gain and elect to be deemed to have made a distribution of the retained portion to our shareholders (a &#8220;deemed distribution&#8221;) under the &#8220;designated undistributed capital gains&#8221; rule of the Code. In that case, among other consequences, we will pay tax on the retained amount, each U.S. shareholder will be required to include his, her or its proportionate share of the deemed distribution in income as if it had been actually distributed to the U.S. shareholder, and the U.S. shareholder will be entitled to claim a credit equal to his, her or its allocable share of the tax paid thereon by us. The amount of the deemed distribution net of such tax will be added to the U.S. shareholder&#8217;s tax basis for his, her or its common stock. Since we expect to pay tax on any retained capital gain at our regular corporate tax rate, and since that rate is in excess of the maximum rate currently payable by individuals on net capital gain, the amount of tax that individual shareholders will be treated as having paid and for which they will receive a credit will exceed the tax they owe on the retained net capital gain. Such excess generally may be claimed as a credit against the U.S. shareholder&#8217;s other U.S. federal income tax obligations or may be refunded to the extent it exceeds a shareholder&#8217;s liability for U.S. federal income tax. A shareholder that is not subject to U.S. federal income tax or otherwise required to file a U.S. federal income tax return would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return on the appropriate form in order to claim a refund for the taxes we paid. In order to utilize the deemed distribution approach, we must provide written notice to our shareholders prior to the expiration of 60 days after the close of the relevant taxable year. We cannot treat any of our investment company taxable income as a &#8220;deemed distribution.&#8221;

We could be subject to the alternative minimum tax, or the AMT, but any items that are treated differently for AMT purposes must be apportioned between us and our shareholders and this may affect U.S. shareholders&#8217; AMT liabilities. Although regulations explaining the precise method of apportionment have not yet been issued, such items will generally be apportioned in the same proportion that distributions paid to each shareholder bear to our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction), unless a different method for a particular item is warranted under the circumstances.

&#160;

For purposes of determining (1) whether the Annual Distribution Requirement is satisfied for any year and (2) the amount of capital gain dividends paid for that year, we may, under certain circumstances, elect to treat a dividend that is paid during the following taxable year as if it had been paid during the taxable year in question. If we make such an election, the U.S. shareholder will still be treated as receiving the dividend in the taxable year in which the distribution is made. However, any dividend declared by us in October, November or December of any calendar year, payable to shareholders of record on a specified date in any such month and actually paid during January of the following year, will be treated as if it had been received by our U.S. shareholders on December 31 of the year in which the dividend was declared.

If an investor purchases shares of our common stock shortly before the record date of a distribution, the price of the shares will include the value of the distribution, and the investor will be subject to tax on the distribution even though it represents a return of his, her or its investment.

A U.S. shareholder generally will recognize taxable gain or loss if the shareholder sells or otherwise disposes of his, her or its shares of our common stock. The amount of gain or loss will be measured by the difference between such shareholder&#8217;s adjusted tax basis in the common stock sold and the amount of the proceeds received in exchange. Any gain arising from such sale or disposition generally will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the shareholder has held his, her or its shares for more than one year. Otherwise, it will be classified as short-term capital gain or loss. However, any capital loss arising from the sale or disposition of shares of our common stock held for six months or less will be treated as long-term capital loss to the extent of the amount of capital gain dividends received, or undistributed capital gain deemed received, with respect to such shares. In addition, all or a portion of any loss recognized upon a disposition of shares of our common stock may be disallowed if other substantially identical shares are purchased (whether through reinvestment of distributions or otherwise) within 30 days before or after the disposition. The ability to otherwise deduct capital loss may be subject to other limitations under the Code.

In general, non-corporate U.S. shareholders, including individuals, trusts and estates, are subject to U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 15% on their net capital gain, or the excess of realized net long-term capital gain over realized net short-term capital loss for a taxable year, including a long-term capital gain derived from an investment in our shares. Such rate is lower than the maximum rate on ordinary income currently payable by individuals. Corporate U.S. shareholders currently are subject to U.S. federal income tax on net capital gain at the maximum 35% rate also applied to ordinary income. Non-corporate shareholders with net capital loss for a year (which we define as capital loss in excess of capital gain) generally may deduct up to $3,000 of such losses against their ordinary income each year; any net capital loss of a noncorporate shareholder in excess of $3,000 generally may be carried forward and used in subsequent years as provided in the Code. Corporate shareholders generally may not deduct any net capital loss for a year, but may carry back such losses for three years or carry forward such losses for five years.

Certain U.S. shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts generally are subject to a 3.8% Medicare tax on, among other things, dividends on, and capital gain from the sale or other disposition of, shares of our common stock.

A &#8220;publicly offered&#8221; RIC is a RIC whose shares are either (1) continuously offered pursuant to a public offering, (2) regularly traded on an established securities market or (3) held by at least 500 persons at all times during the taxable year. If we are not a publicly offered RIC for any period, a non-corporate shareholder&#8217;s pro rata portion of our affected expenses, including our management fees, will be treated as an additional dividend to the shareholder and will be deductible by such shareholder only to the extent permitted under the limitations described below. For non-corporate shareholders, including individuals, trusts, and estates, significant limitations generally apply to the deductibility of certain expenses of a non-publicly offered RIC, including advisory fees. In particular, these expenses, referred to as miscellaneous itemized deductions, are deductible only to individuals to the extent they exceed 2% of such a shareholder&#8217;s adjusted gross income, and are not deductible for AMT purposes. Because we anticipate that shares of our common stock will continue to be regularly traded on an established securities market, we believe that we will continue to qualify as a &#8220;publicly offered regulated investment company.&#8221;

We will send to each of our U.S. shareholders, as promptly as possible after the end of each calendar year, a written statement detailing, on a per share and per distribution basis, the amounts includible in such U.S. shareholder&#8217;s taxable income for such year as ordinary income and as long-term capital gain. In addition, the U.S. federal tax status of each year&#8217;s distributions generally will be reported to the IRS. Distributions paid by us generally will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction or the preferential tax rate applicable to qualifying dividends. Distributions may also be subject to additional state, local and foreign taxes depending on a U.S. shareholder&#8217;s particular situation.

&#160;

We may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax, or backup withholding at a rate of 28.0%, from all taxable distributions to any non-corporate U.S. shareholder (1) who fails to furnish us with a correct taxpayer identification number or a certificate that such shareholder is exempt from backup withholding or (2) with respect to whom the IRS notifies us that such shareholder has failed to properly report certain interest and dividend income to the IRS and to respond to notices to that effect. An individual&#8217;s taxpayer identification number is his or her social security number. Backup withholding tax is not an additional tax, and any amount withheld may be refunded or credited against the U.S. shareholder&#8217;s U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that proper information is timely provided to the IRS.

For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, if certain disclosure requirements related to U.S. accounts or ownership are not satisfied, a U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30.0% rate will be imposed on dividends received by U.S. shareholders that own their stock through foreign accounts or foreign intermediaries. In addition, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016, if certain disclosure requirements related to U.S. accounts or ownership are not satisfied, a U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30.0% rate will be imposed on proceeds of sale in respect of our stock received by U.S. shareholders that own their stock through foreign accounts or foreign intermediaries. We will not pay any additional amounts in respect of any amounts withheld.

Under U.S. Treasury regulations, if a shareholder recognizes a loss with respect to shares of our stock of $2 million or more for an individual, S corporation, trust or a partnership with at least one non-corporate partner or $10 million or more for a shareholder that is either a corporation or a partnership with only corporate partners in any single taxable year (or a greater loss over a combination of years), the shareholder must file with the IRS a disclosure statement on IRS Form 8886 (or successor form). Direct shareholders of portfolio securities in many cases are exempted from this reporting requirement, but under current guidance, shareholders of a RIC are not exempted. Future guidance may extend the current exception from this reporting requirement to shareholders of most or all RICs. The fact that a loss is reportable under these regulations does not affect the legal determination of whether the taxpayer&#8217;s treatment of the loss is proper. Significant monetary penalties apply to a failure to comply with this reporting requirement. States may also have a similar reporting requirement. Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors to determine the applicability of these regulations in light of their individual circumstances.

Taxation of Non-U.S. Shareholders

Whether an investment in the shares is appropriate for a Non-U.S. shareholder will depend upon that person&#8217;s particular circumstances. An investment in the shares by a Non-U.S. shareholder may have adverse tax consequences. Non-U.S. shareholders should consult their tax advisers before investing in our common stock.

Distributions of our &#8220;investment company taxable income&#8221; to Non-U.S. shareholders that are not &#8220;effectively connected&#8221; with a U.S. trade or business carried on by the Non-U.S. shareholder, will generally be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax at a rate of 30% (or lower rate provided by an applicable treaty) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, unless an applicable exception applies.

Actual or deemed distributions of our net capital gain to a Non-U.S. shareholder, and gains realized by a Non-U.S. shareholder upon the sale of our common stock, that are not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business carried on by the Non-U.S. shareholder, will generally not be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless the Non-U.S. shareholder is a nonresident alien individual and is physically present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year and meets certain other requirements. However, withholding of U.S. federal income tax at a rate of 30.0% on capital gain of nonresident alien individuals who are physically present in the United States for more than the 182 day period only applies in exceptional cases because any individual present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year is generally treated as a resident for U.S. income tax purposes; in that case, he or she would be subject to U.S. income tax on his or her worldwide income at the graduated rates applicable to U.S. citizens, rather than the 30% U.S. federal withholding tax.

&#160;

If we distribute our net capital gain in the form of deemed rather than actual distributions (which we may do in the future), a Non-U.S. shareholder will be entitled to a U.S. federal income tax credit or tax refund equal to the shareholder&#8217;s allocable share of the tax we pay on the capital gain deemed to have been distributed. In order to obtain the refund, the Non-U.S. shareholder must obtain a U.S. taxpayer identification number and file a U.S. federal income tax return even if the Non-U.S. shareholder would not otherwise be required to obtain a U.S. taxpayer identification number or file a U.S. federal income tax return. Accordingly, investment in the shares may not be appropriate for a Non-U.S. shareholder.

Distributions of our &#8220;investment company taxable income&#8221; and net capital gain (including deemed distributions) to Non-U.S. shareholders, and gain realized by Non-U.S. shareholders upon the sale of our common stock that is &#8220;effectively connected&#8221; with a U.S. trade or business carried on by the Non-U.S. shareholder (or if an income tax treaty applies, attributable to a &#8220;permanent establishment&#8221; in the United States), will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the graduated rates applicable to U.S. citizens, residents and domestic corporations. Corporate Non-U.S. shareholders may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a rate of 30% imposed by the Code (or lower rate provided by an applicable treaty). In the case of a non-corporate Non-U.S. shareholder, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax from distributions that are otherwise exempt from withholding tax (or taxable at a reduced rate) unless the Non-U.S. shareholder certifies his or her foreign status under penalties of perjury or otherwise establishes an exemption.

The tax consequences to a Non-U.S. shareholder entitled to claim the benefits of an applicable tax treaty may differ from those described herein. Non-U.S. shareholders are advised to consult their own tax advisers with respect to the particular tax consequences to them of an investment in our shares.

Dividends distributed by CSWC as a regulated investment company may constitute interest-related dividends under Sections 871(k) and 881(e) of the Code to the extent paid out of U.S. source earnings that would have qualified for an exemption from U.S. nonresident withholding tax if a non-U.S. resident received such earnings directly. This provision of the Code had expired for tax years beginning after December 31, 2014. This provision was extended retroactively for the 2015 tax year and made permanent prospectively. As a result, ordinary dividends paid in the future by CSWC may be considered interest-related dividends and as such are not subject to U.S. nonresident withholding tax for non-U.S. residents.

A Non-U.S. shareholder who is a nonresident alien individual may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding of U.S. federal income tax on dividends unless the Non-U.S. shareholder provides us or the dividend paying agent with an IRS Form W-8BEN (or an acceptable substitute form) or otherwise meets documentary evidence requirements for establishing that it is a Non-U.S. shareholder or otherwise establishes an exemption from backup withholding.

Generally, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, if certain disclosure requirements related to U.S. accounts or ownership are not satisfied, a U.S. federal withholding tax of 30.0% may be imposed on dividends received by foreign shareholders, or U.S. shareholders that own their stock through foreign accounts or foreign intermediaries. For certain investors that held their stock prior to July 1, 2014, transition rules may apply to defer applicable of these rules until July 1, 2016. In addition, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016, if certain disclosure requirements related to U.S. accounts or ownership are not satisfied, a U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate may also be imposed on gross proceeds of sale in respect of stock received by foreign shareholders and U.S. shareholders that own their stock through foreign accounts or foreign intermediaries. Any such withholding would be subtracted from amounts otherwise due to shareholders and are not reimbursable by the Company.

Non-U.S. persons should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the U.S. federal income tax and withholding tax, and state, local and foreign tax consequences of an investment in the shares.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Considerations

Prospective investors should recognize that the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our stock may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process any by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could affect the tax consequences of an investment in our stock.

&#160;

State and Local Tax Treatment

The state and local tax treatment may differ from federal income tax treatment.

The discussion set forth herein does not constitute tax advice, and potential investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the tax considerations relevant to their particular situation.

THE NASDAQ GLOBAL SELECT MARKET CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REGULATIONS

The NASDAQ Global Select Market (&#8220;NASDAQ&#8221;) has adopted corporate governance listing standards with which listed companies must comply in order to remain listed. We believe that we are in compliance with these corporate governance listing standards. We intend to monitor our compliance with future listing standards and to take all necessary actions to ensure that we remain in compliance.

SECURITIES ACT OF 1934 AND SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COMPLIANCE

We are subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act, including the filing of quarterly, annual and current reports, proxy statements and other required items. In addition, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations promulgated thereunder, which imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. For example:

&#183; Pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to certify the accuracy of the financial statements contained in our periodic reports; 

&#183; Pursuant to Item 307 of Regulation S-K, our periodic reports are required to disclose our conclusions about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures; 

&#183; Pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, our management is required to prepare a report on its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and we engage an independent registered public accounting firm to separately audit our internal control over financial reporting; and 

&#160;

&#183; Pursuant to Item 308 of Regulation S-K and Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, our periodic reports must disclose whether there were significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. 

&#160;

