 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

DuPont was founded in 1802 and was incorporated in Delaw are in 1915. Today, DuPont is creating higher growth and higher value by extending the company&#8217;s leadership in agriculture and nutrition, strengthening and growing capabilities in advanced materials and leveraging cross-company skills to develop a world-leading bio-based industrial business. Through these strategic priorities, DuPont helps customers find solutions to capitalize on areas of growing global demand &#8212; enabling more, safer, nutritious food; creating high-performance, cost-effective and energy efficient materials for a wide range of industries; and increasingly delivering renewably sourced bio-based materials and fuels. Total worldwide employment at &#32; December 31, 2015 &#32; was about 52,000 people. The company has operations in about 90 countries worldwide and 60 percent of consolidated net sales are made to customers outside the United States of America (U.S.). See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the location of the company's sales and property. 

Subsidiaries and affiliates of DuPont conduct manufacturing, seed production or selling activities and some are distributors of products manufactured by the company. As a science and technology based company, DuPont competes on a variety of factors such as product quality and performance or specifications, continuity of supply, price, customer service and breadth of product line, depending on the characteristics of the particular market involved and the product or service provided. Most products are marketed primarily through the company's sales force, although in some regions, more emphasis is placed on sales through &#32; distributors. The company utilizes numerous suppliers as well as internal sources to supply a wide range of raw materials, energy, supplies, services and equipment. To ensure availability, the company maintains multiple sources for fuels and many raw materials, including hydrocarbon feedstocks. Large volume purchases are generally procured under competitively priced supply contracts. 

DuPont Dow Merger of Equals 

On December 11, 2015, DuPont and The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) announced entry into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), under which the companies will combine in an all-stock merger of equals. The merger transaction is expected to close and become effective (the Effective Time) in the second half of 2016, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approvals by both DuPont and Dow shareholders. The combined company will be named DowDuPont. 

DuPont and Dow intend to pursue, subject to the receipt of approval by the board of directors of DowDuPont, the separation of the combined company&#8217;s agriculture business, specialty products business and material science business through a series of one or more tax-efficient transactions (collectively, the Business Separations.) 

Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of common stock, par value $0.30 per share, of DuPont (DuPont Common Stock) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, excluding any shares of DuPont Common Stock that are held in treasury, will be converted into the right to receive 1.2820 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of DowDuPont (DowDuPont Common Stock), for each share of DuPont Common Stock with cash in lieu of any fractional share of DowDuPont. Each share of DuPont Preferred Stock-$4.50 Series and DuPont Preferred Stock-$3.50 Series, in each case issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall remain issued and outstanding and be unaffected by the merger. 

Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each share of common stock, par value $2.50 per share, of Dow (the Dow Common Stock) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, excluding any shares of Dow Common Stock that are held in treasury, will be converted into the right to receive one share of DowDuPont Common Stock and each share of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.00 per share, of Dow (the Dow Preferred) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will be automatically canceled and each holder of shares of Dow Preferred will be deemed to hold the same number of shares of preferred stock of DowDuPont on equivalent terms. 

See the discussion entitled Dow DuPont Merger of Equals Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7 Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details and a discussion of some of the risks related to the transaction. Additional information about the Merger Agreement is set forth in the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 11, 2015. 

&#32;2 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Spin-off of Performance Chemicals 

On July 1, 2015, DuPont completed the separation of its Performance Chemicals segment through the spin-off of all of the issued and outstanding stock of The Chemours Company (Chemours). In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP), the financial position and results of operations of the Performance Chemicals segment are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Additional details related to the separation can be found in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 24 of this report and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Productivity and Cost Savings Initiatives 

On December 11, 2015, DuPont announced a 2016 global cost savings and restructuring plan designed to reduce $730 million in costs in 2016 compared with 2015, which represents a reduction of operating costs on a run-rate basis of about $1.0 billion by end of 2016. As part of the plan, the company committed to take structural actions across all businesses and staff functions globally to operate more efficiently by further consolidating businesses and aligning staff functions more closely with them. In connection with the restructuring actions, the company recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $798 million in the fourth quarter 2015, comprised of $656 million of severance and related benefit costs, $109 million of asset related charges, and $33 million of contract termination costs. Additional details related to this plan can be found in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 23 of this report and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In June 2014, DuPont announced its global, multi-year initiative to redesign its global organization and operating model to reduce costs and improve productivity and agility across all businesses and functions. DuPont commenced a restructuring plan to realign and rebalance staff function support, enhance operational efficiency, and to reduce residual costs associated with the separation of its Performance Chemicals segment. As a result, during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, pre-tax (benefits) charges of $(21) million and $541 million, respectively, were recorded. Additional details related to this plan can be found in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 24 of this report and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Business Segments 

The company consists of 10 businesses which are aggregated into 6 reportable segments based on similar economic characteristics, the nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment. The company's reportable segments are Agriculture, Electronics &#38; Communications, Industrial Biosciences, Nutrition &#38; Health, Performance Materials and Safety &#38; Protection. The company includes certain businesses not included in the reportable segments, such as pre-commercial programs, nonaligned businesses and pharmaceuticals in Other. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 30 of this report and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In November 2015, DuPont announced the consolidation of the DuPont Packaging &#38; Industrial Polymers business with the DuPont Performance Polymers business within the Performance Materials segment, as well as the consolidation of the DuPont Protection Technologies business with the DuPont Building Innovations business within the Safety &#38; Protection segment. Both consolidations will be effective on January 1, 2016. The consolidations will create greater efficiency and enhanced capabilities in the two segments where these businesses operate, the Performance Materials segment and the Safety &#38; Protection segment, respectively. These changes will not result in a change in reportable segments. 

DuPont Sustainable Solutions, within the company's Safety &#38; Protection segment, is comprised of two business units: clean technologies and consulting solutions. Effective January 1, 2016, the clean technologies business unit will become part of the Industrial Biosciences segment with the focus on working with customers to improve the performance, productivity and sustainability of their products and processes. The company will explore a range of options to maximize the growth of the consulting solutions business unit which effective January 1, 2016 will be reported within Other. Sustainable solutions net sales accounted for about 2 percent of the company's total consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

&#160; 

&#32;3 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Agriculture 

Agriculture businesses, DuPont Pioneer (Pioneer) and DuPont Crop Protection (Crop Protection), leverage the company's technology, customer relationships and industry knowledge to improve the quantity, quality and safety of the global food supply and the global production agriculture industry. Land available for worldwide agricultural production is increasingly limited so production growth will need to be achieved principally through improving crop yields and productivity rather than through increases in planted area. The segment's businesses deliver a broad portfolio of products and services that are specifically targeted to achieve gains in crop yields and productivity, including Pioneer &#174; &#32; brand seed products and well-established brands of insecticides, fungicides and herbicides. Research and development focuses on leveraging technology to increase grower productivity and to enhance the value of grains and oilseeds through improved seed traits, superior seed germplasm and effective use of insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Agriculture &#32;accounted for approximately 55 percent of the company's total research and development expense in 2015. &#32; 

Sales of the company's products in this segment are affected by &#32; the seasonality of global agriculture markets and weather patterns. Sales and earnings performance in the Agriculture segment are significantly stronger in the first versus second half of the year reflecting the northern hemisphere planting season. As a result of the seasonal nature of its business, Agriculture's inventory is at its highest level at the end of the calendar year and is sold down in the first and second quarters. Trade receivables in the Agriculture segment are at a low point at year-end and increase through the northern hemisphere selling season to peak at the end of the second quarter. 

Pioneer is a world leader in developing, producing and marketing corn hybrids and soybean varieties which improve the productivity and profitability of its customers. Additionally, Pioneer develops, produces and markets canola, sunflower, sorghum, inoculants, wheat and rice. As the world's population grows and the middle class expands, the need for crops for animal feed, food, biofuels and industrial uses continues to increase. The business competes with other seed and plant biotechnology companies. Pioneer seed sales amounted to 27 percent, 27 percent and 28 percent of the company's total consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Pioneer's research and development focuses on integrating high yielding germplasm with value added proprietary and/or licensed native and biotechnology traits with local environment and service expertise. Pioneer uniquely develops integrated products for specific regional application based on local product advancement and testing of the product concepts. Research and development in this arena requires long-term commitment of resources, extensive regulatory efforts and collaborations, partnerships and business arrangements to successfully bring products to market. To protect its investment, the business employs the use of patents covering germplasm and native and biotechnology traits in accordance with country laws. Pioneer holds multiple long-term biotechnology trait licenses from third parties as a normal course of business. The biotechnology traits licensed by Pioneer from third parties are contained in a variety of Pioneer crops, including corn hybrids and soybean varieties. The majority of Pioneer&#8217;s corn hybrids and soybean varieties sold to customers contain biotechnology traits licensed from third parties under these long term licenses. 

&#160; 

Pioneer is actively pursuing the development of innovations for corn hybrids, soybean varieties, canola, sunflower, wheat and rice based on market assessments of the most valuable opportunities. In corn seeds, programs include innovations for drought and nitrogen efficiency and insect protection. In soybean seeds, programs include products with enhanced end-use value and insect protection. 

Pioneer has seed production facilities located throughout the world. Seed production is performed directly by the business or contracted with independent growers and conditioners. Pioneer's ability to produce seeds primarily depends upon weather conditions and availability of reliable contract growers. 

Pioneer markets and sells seed product primarily under the Pioneer &#174; &#32;brand but also sells and distributes products utilizing additional brand names. Pioneer promotes its products through multiple marketing channels around the world. In the corn and soybean markets of the U.S. Corn Belt, Pioneer &#174; &#32;brand products are sold primarily through a specialized force of independent sales representatives. Outside of North America, Pioneer's products are marketed through a network of subsidiaries, joint ventures and independent producer-distributors. 

&#32;4 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Crop Protection serves the global production agriculture industry with crop protection products for field crops such as wheat, corn, soybean and rice and specialty crops such as fruit, nut, vine and vegetables. Principle crop protection products are weed control, disease control and insect control offerings for foliar application or as a seed treatment. Crop Protection products are marketed and sold to growers and other end users through a network of wholesale distributors and crop input retailers. Sales for the business' insect control portfolio is led by DuPont TM Rynaxypyr &#174; insecticide, a product that is used across a broad range of core agricultural crops. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Agriculture segment include: benzene derivatives, other aromatics and carbamic acid related intermediates, corn and soybean seeds, insect control products, natural gas and seed treatments. 

Agriculture net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 50 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

Electronics &#38; Communications 

Electronics &#38; Communications (E&#38;C) is a leading supplier of differentiated materials and systems for photovoltaics (PV), consumer electronics, displays and advanced printing that enable superior performance and lower total cost of ownership for customers. The segment leverages the company's strong materials and technology base to target attractive growth opportunities in PV materials, circuit and semiconductor fabrication and packaging materials, display materials, packaging graphics, and ink-jet printing. In the growing PV market, E&#38;C continues to be an industry-leading innovator and supplier of metallization pastes and backsheet materials that improve the efficiency and lifetime of solar cells and solar modules. Solar modules, which are made up of solar cells and other materials, are installed to generate power. DuPont is a leading global supplier of materials to the PV industry. 

In the consumer electronics markets, E&#38;C materials add value across multiple devices, with growth driven largely by smart phones and tablets. The segment has a portfolio of materials for semiconductor fabrication and packaging, as well as innovative materials for circuit applications, to address critical needs of electronic component and device manufacturers. In packaging graphics, E&#38;C is a leading supplier of flexographic printing systems, including Cyrel &#174; &#32;photopolymer plates and platemaking systems. The segment is investing in new products to strengthen its market leadership position in advanced printing markets. The segment supplies pigmented inks used in digital printing applications for commercial and home office use. In the displays market, E&#38;C has developed solution-process technology, which it licenses, and a growing range of materials for active matrix organic light emitting diode (AMOLED) television displays. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for E&#38;C include: acrylic monomers, acetoxystyrene monomer, black and color pigments, styrenic block copolymers, color dyes, copper foil, difluoroethane, diglycolamine, DMAC, hydroxylamine, monomers and polymer resins, oxydianiline, polyester film, polymer films, precious metals and pyromellitic dianhydride. 

E&#38;C net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 80 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

Industrial Biosciences 

Industrial Biosciences is a leader in developing and manufacturing a broad portfolio of bio-based products. The segment's enzymes add value and functionality to processes and products across a broad range of markets such as animal nutrition, detergents, food manufacturing, ethanol production and industrial applications. The result is cost and process benefits, better product performance and improved environmental outcomes. Industrial Biosciences also makes DuPont TM Sorona &#174; &#32;PTT renewably sourced polymer for use in carpet and apparel fibers. 

&#160; 

The segment includes a joint venture with Tate &#38; Lyle PLC, DuPont Tate &#38; Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC, to produce BioPDO TM &#32;1,3 propanediol using a proprietary fermentation and purification process. BioPDO TM &#32;is the key building block for DuPont TM Sorona &#174; PTT polymer. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Industrial Biosciences segment include: terephthalic acid, processed grains (including dextrose and glucose), and glycols. 

Industrial Biosciences net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 57 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

&#32;5 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Nutrition &#38; Health 

Nutrition &#38; Health offers a wide range of sustainable, bio-based ingredients and advanced molecular diagnostic solutions, providing innovative solutions for specialty food ingredients, food nutrition, health and safety. The segment's product solutions include the wide-range of DuPont &#8482; &#32;Danisco &#174; &#32;food ingredients such as cultures and probiotics, notably Howaru &#174; , emulsifiers, texturants, natural sweeteners such as Xivia &#174; &#32;and Supro &#174; soy-based food ingredients. These ingredients hold leading market positions based on industry leading innovation, knowledge and experience, relevant product portfolios and close-partnering with the world's food manufacturers. Nutrition &#38; Health serves various end markets within the food industry including dairy, bakery, meat and beverage segments. Nutrition &#38; Health has research, production and distribution operations around the world. 

&#160; 

Nutrition &#38; Health products are marketed and sold under a variety of brand names and are distributed primarily through its direct route to market. The direct route to market focuses on strong customer collaborations and insights with multinational customers and regional customers alike. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Nutrition &#38; Health segment include: cellulose, gelatin, glycerol, guar, organic oils, peels, saccharides, seaweed, soybeans, sugars and yeasts. 

Nutrition &#38; Health net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 66 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

Performance Materials 

DuPont Performance Materials (Performance Materials) includes DuPont Performance Polymers (Performance Polymers) and DuPont Packaging &#38; Industrial Polymers (Packaging &#38; Industrial Polymers) and provides its customers with innovative polymer science solutions and expert application development assistance to enhance the performance, reduce the total system cost and optimize the sustainability of their products. Solutions include productive, higher performance polymers, elastomers, films, parts, and systems and solutions which improve the uniqueness, functionality and profitability of its customers' offerings. Key market segments include automotive and transportation, packaging for food and beverages, electrical/electronic components, material handling, healthcare, construction, semiconductor and aerospace. The segment has several large customers, primarily in the motor vehicle OEM industry supply chain. The company has long-standing relationships with these customers and they are considered to be important to the segment's operating results. 

Performance Materials product portfolio includes elastomers and thermoplastic and thermoset engineering polymers which are used by customers to fabricate components for mechanical, chemical and electrical systems. The main products include: DuPont TM &#32;Zytel &#174; long chain polymers, Zytel &#174; HTN nylon resins, Zytel &#174; &#32;nylon resins, Crastin &#174; &#32;PBT polymer resins, Rynite &#174; &#32;polymer resins, Delrin &#174; &#32;acetal resins, Hytrel &#174; &#32;polyester thermoplastic elastomer resins, Vespel &#174; &#32;parts and shapes, Vamac &#174; &#32;ethylene acrylic elastomer and Kalrez &#174; &#32;perfluoroelastomer. 

Performance Materials also specializes in resins and films used in packaging and industrial polymer applications, sealants and adhesives and sporting goods. Key brands include: DuPont TM &#32;Surlyn &#174; &#32;ionomer resins, Bynel &#174; &#32;coextrudable adhesive resins, Elvax &#174; EVA resins, Nucrel &#174; Elvaloy &#174; polymer modifiers and Elvaloy &#174; copolymer resins. Performance Materials product portfolio also includes the DuPont Teijin Films joint venture, whose primary products are Mylar &#174; &#32;and Melinex &#174; &#32;polyester films. 

In November 2013, DuPont entered into a definitive agreement to sell Glass Laminating Solutions/Vinyls (GLS/Vinyls), a part of Packaging &#38; Industrial Polymers, to Kuraray Co. Ltd. In June 2014, the sale was completed which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $391 million ($273 million net of tax). The gain was recorded in other income, net in the company's Consolidated Income Statements for the year ended December 31, 2014. GLS/Vinyls specializes in interlayers for laminated safety glass and its key brands include SentryGlas &#174; and Butacite &#174; &#32;laminate interlayers. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Performance Materials segment include: acetic acid, acrylic monomers, adipic acid, butanediol, dimethyl terephthalate, dodecanedioic acid, ethane, fiberglass, hexamethylene diamine, methanol, methacrylic acid, methylacrylate, natural gas, paraxylene, perfluoromethylvinyl ether, polytetramethylene glycol, polyethylene, polyolefin resin,purified terephthalic acid, and vinyl acetate monomer. 

Performance Materials net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 69 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

&#32;6 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Safety &#38; Protection 

Safety &#38; Protection businesses, DuPont Protection Technologies (Protection Technologies), DuPont Building Innovations (Building Innovations) and DuPont Sustainable Solutions (Sustainable Solutions), satisfy the growing global needs of businesses, governments and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier and more secure. By uniting market-driven science with the strength of highly regarded brands, the segment delivers products and services to a large number of markets, including construction, transportation, communications, industrial chemicals, oil and gas, electric utilities, automotive, manufacturing, defense, homeland security and safety consulting. 

Protection Technologies is focused on scientifically engineered products and systems to protect people and the environment. With highly recognized brands like DuPont &#8482; &#32;Kevlar &#174; &#32;high strength material, Nomex &#174; &#32;thermal resistant material and Tyvek &#174; &#32;protective material, the business has a broad portfolio with strong positions in many diverse global markets which include: aerospace, life protection, automotive, energy, personal protection, medical, graphics, packaging and other industrial markets. 

Building Innovations is committed to the science behind increasing the performance of building systems, helping reduce operating costs and creating more sustainable structures. The business is a market leader of solid surfaces through its DuPont TM &#32;Corian &#174; &#32;and Montelli &#174; &#32;lines of products which offer durable and versatile materials for residential and commercial purposes. DuPont&#8482; Tyvek &#174; &#32;offers industry leading solutions for the protection and energy efficiency of buildings and the business also offers Geotextiles for Professional Landscaping applications. 

Sustainable Solutions continues to help organizations worldwide reduce workplace injuries and fatalities while improving operating costs, productivity and quality. Sustainable Solutions is a leader in the safety consulting field, selling training products, as well as consulting services. Additionally, Sustainable Solutions is dedicated to clean air, clean fuel and clean water with offerings that help reduce sulfur and other emissions, formulate cleaner fuels, or dispose of liquid waste. Its goal is to help maintain business continuity and environmental compliance for companies in the refining and petrochemical industries, as well as for government entities. In addition, the business is a leading global provider of process technology, proprietary specialty equipment and technical services to the sulfuric acid industry. 

The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Safety &#38; Protection segment include: alumina trihydrate, benzene, high density polyethylene, isophthaloyl chloride, metaphenylenediamine, methyl methacrylate, paraphenylenediamine, polyester resin, terephthaloyl chloride and quartz. 

Safety &#38; Protection net sales outside the U.S. accounted for 59 percent of the segment's total sales in 2015. 

Backlog 

In general, the company does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders and does not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. Production and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, the company believes that backlog information is not material to understanding its overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of the company's ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. 

Intellectual Property 

As a science and technology based company, DuPont believes that securing intellectual property is an important part of protecting its research. Some DuPont businesses operate in environments in which the availability and protection of intellectual property rights affect competition. (Information on the importance of intellectual property rights to Pioneer is included in Item 1 Agriculture business discussion beginning on page 4 of this report.) 

Trade secrets are an important element of the company's intellectual property. Many of the processes used to make DuPont products are kept as trade secrets which, from time to time, may be licensed to third parties. DuPont vigilantly protects all of its intellectual property including its trade secrets. When the company discovers that its trade secrets have been unlawfully taken, it reports the matter to governmental authorities for investigation and potential criminal action, as appropriate. In addition, the company takes measures to mitigate any potential impact , &#32;which may include civil actions seeking redress, restitution and/or damages based on loss to the company and/or unjust enrichment. 

&#32;7 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Patents &#38; Trademarks: DuPont &#32; continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents and has access to a large patent portfolio, both owned and licensed. DuPont&#8217;s rights under these patents and licenses, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the company in the aggregate. The protection afforded by these patents varies based on country, scope of individual patent coverage, as well as the availability of legal remedies in each country. This significant patent estate may be leveraged to align with the company&#8217;s strategic priorities within and across segments. At December 31, 2015, the company owned over 21,300 patents with various expiration dates over the next 20 years. In addition to its owned patents, the company owns over 12,400 patent applications. 

The company owns or licenses many trademarks that have significant recognition at the consumer retail level and/or business to business level. Ownership rights in trademarks do not expire if the trademarks are continued in use and properly protected. 

Research and Development 

DuPont conducts research and development (R&#38;D) programs across multiple fields including agriculture, biology, chemistry, engineering, and materials science in support of the company's strategic priorities of Agriculture &#38; Nutrition, Bio-based Industrials, and Advanced Materials. DuPont accelerates market introductions and increases the impact of its offerings through collaboration with partners in the commercial sector (customers and value chain partners) and by working with governments, academia, and local communities around the world. DuPont&#8217;s R&#38;D objectives are to leverage the company's unique world-class science and technology capabilities with its deep understanding of markets and value chains to drive revenue and profit growth for the company thereby delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders. DuPont's R&#38;D investment is focused on delivering value to its customers while extending its leadership across the high-value, science-driven segments of the agriculture and food value chains, strengthening its lead as provider of differentiated, high-value advanced industrial materials, and building transformational new bio-based industrial businesses. Each business in the company undertakes R&#38;D activities to support its objectives. In addition, the company directs R&#38;D to support science-intensive new growth opportunities additive to the existing business portfolios. The R&#38;D portfolio is managed by senior business and R&#38;D leaders to ensure consistency with the corporate and business strategies and to capitalize on the application of emerging science. Additional information with respect to R&#38;D related to Agriculture is included on page 4. 

The company continues to protect its R&#38;D investment through its intellectual property strategy. See discussion under "Intellectual Property". 

Additional information with respect to R&#38;D, including the amount incurred during each of the last three fiscal years, is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 26 of this report. 

Environmental Matters 

Information related to environmental matters is included in several areas of this report: (1) Environmental Proceedings beginning on page 18, (2) Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on pages 41, 46-48 and (3) Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Available Information 

The company is subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Consequently, the company is required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including reports on the following forms: annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

The company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are also accessible on the company's website at http://www.dupont.com by clicking on the section labeled "Investors", then on "Filings &#38; Reports" and then on "SEC Filings." These reports are made available, without charge, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the company files or furnishes them electronically with the SEC. 

&#32;8 

Part I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, &#32; continued 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Information related to the company's Executive Officers is included in Item 10, Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, beginning on page 51 of this report. 

&#32;9 

Part I 

