 Item 1. Business

Community Trust Bancorp, Inc. ("CTBI") is a bank holding company registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. CTBI was incorporated August 12, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the purpose of becoming a bank holding company. Currently, CTBI owns all the capital stock of one commercial bank and one trust company, serving small and mid-sized communities in eastern, northeastern, central, and south central Kentucky, southern West Virginia, and northeastern Tennessee. The commercial bank is Community Trust Bank, Inc., Pikeville, Kentucky ("CTB") and the trust company is Community Trust and Investment Company, Lexington, Kentucky.

At December 31, 2015, CTBI had total consolidated assets of $3.9 billion and total consolidated deposits, including repurchase agreements, of $3.2 billion. Total shareholders' equity at December 31, 2015 was $475.6 million. Trust assets under management at December 31, 2015 were $1.9 billion, including CTB's investment portfolio totaling $0.6 billion.

Through its subsidiaries, CTBI engages in a wide range of commercial and personal banking and trust and wealth management activities, which include accepting time and demand deposits; making secured and unsecured loans to corporations, individuals and others; providing cash management services to corporate and individual customers; issuing letters of credit; renting safe deposit boxes; and providing funds transfer services. The lending activities of CTB include making commercial, construction, mortgage, and personal loans. Lease-financing, lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, term loans, and other specialized loans, including asset-based financing, are also available. Our corporate subsidiaries act as trustees of personal trusts, as executors of estates, as trustees for employee benefit trusts, as paying agents for bond and stock issues, as investment agent, as depositories for securities, and as providers of full service brokerage and insurance services.

&#160;

COMPETITION

CTBI's subsidiaries face substantial competition for deposit, credit, trust, wealth management, and brokerage relationships in the communities we serve. Competing providers include state banks, national banks, thrifts, trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage companies, and other financial and non-financial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by our subsidiaries. As financial services become increasingly dependent on technology, permitting transactions to be conducted by telephone, mobile banking, and the internet, non-bank institutions are able to attract funds and provide lending and other financial services without offices located in our market areas. Many of our nonbank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, consolidation among financial service providers, and advances in technology and product delivery systems. Many of these providers offer services within and outside the market areas served by our subsidiaries. We strive to offer competitively priced products along with quality customer service to build customer relationships in the communities we serve.

The United States and global markets, as well as general economic conditions, have been disruptive and volatile. Some financial institutions have failed and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. Larger financial institutions could strengthen their competitive position as a result of ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry.

Banking legislation in Kentucky places no limits on the number of banks or bank holding companies that a bank holding company may acquire. Interstate acquisitions are allowed where reciprocity exists between the laws of Kentucky and the home state of the bank or bank holding company to be acquired. Bank holding companies continue to be limited to control of less than 15% of deposits held by banks in the states where they do business (exclusive of inter-bank and foreign deposits).

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act") may impact our competitive environment. Competition for deposits may be increasing as a consequence of FDIC assessments shifting from deposits to an asset based formula, as larger banks may move away from non-deposit funding sources. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act's interstate branching provisions permit banks to establish de novo branches at a location where a bank based in that state could establish a branch.

No material portion of our business is seasonal. We are not dependent upon any one customer or a few customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not have a material adverse effect on us. See note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding concentrations of credit.

We do not engage in any operations in foreign countries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2015, CTBI and subsidiaries had 984 full-time equivalent employees. Our employees are provided with a variety of employee benefits. A retirement plan, an employee stock ownership plan, group life insurance, major medical insurance, a cafeteria plan, and management and employee incentive compensation plans are available to all eligible personnel.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

General

We, as a registered bank holding company, are restricted to those activities permissible under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and are subject to actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System thereunder. We are required to file an annual report with the Federal Reserve Board and are subject to an annual examination by the Board.

Community Trust Bank, Inc. is a state-chartered bank subject to state and federal banking laws and regulations and periodic examination by the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions and the restrictions, including dividend restrictions, thereunder. CTB is also a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to certain restrictions imposed by and to examination and supervision under the Federal Reserve Act. Community Trust and Investment Company is also regulated by the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve.

Deposits of CTB are insured up to applicable limits by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which subjects banks to regulation and examination under the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

The operations of CTBI and our subsidiaries are also affected by other banking legislation and policies and practices of various regulatory authorities. Such legislation and policies include statutory maximum rates on some loans, reserve requirements, domestic monetary and fiscal policy, and limitations on the kinds of services that may be offered.

CTBI's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website at www.ctbi.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. CTBI's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other corporate governance documents are also available on our website. Copies of our annual report will be made available free of charge upon written request to:

Community Trust Bancorp, Inc.

Jean R. Hale

Chairman, President and CEO

P.O. Box 2947

Pikeville, KY 41502-2947

Basel III

On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to CTBI and CTB. The FDIC subsequently approved these rules. The final rules implement the "Basel III" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

The rules include new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which are being phased in from 2015 to 2019, and refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to CTBI and CTB under the final rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from previous rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The final rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements, which must consist entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer will be phased-in over four years beginning on January 1, 2016.

The final rules also implement revisions and clarifications consistent with Basel III regarding the various components of Tier 1 capital, including common equity, unrealized gains and losses, as well as certain instruments that will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, some of which will be phased out over time. However, the final rules provide that small depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009 (which includes CTBI) will be able to permanently include non-qualifying instruments that were issued and included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital prior to May 19, 2010 in additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital until they redeem such instruments or until the instruments mature.

The final rules also contain revisions to the prompt corrective action framework, which is designed to place restrictions on insured depository institutions, including the Bank, if their capital levels begin to show signs of weakness. These revisions took effect January 1, 2015. Under the prompt corrective action requirements, which are designed to complement the capital conservation buffer, insured depository institutions are required to meet the following increased capital level requirements in order to qualify as "well capitalized:" (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% (increased from 6%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 10% (unchanged from previous rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% (unchanged from previous rules).

The final rules set forth certain changes for the calculation of risk-weighted assets, which we were required to utilize beginning January 1, 2015. The standardized approach final rule utilizes an increased number of credit risk exposure categories and risk weights, and also addresses: (i) an alternative standard of creditworthiness consistent with Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act; (ii) revisions to recognition of credit risk mitigation; (iii) rules for risk weighting of equity exposures and past due loans; (iv) revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions; and (v) disclosure requirements for top-tier banking organizations with $50 billion or more in total assets that are not subject to the "advance approach rules" that apply to banks with greater than $250 billion in consolidated assets. We currently satisfy the well-capitalized standards, and based on our current capital composition and levels, we anticipate that our capital ratios, on a Basel III basis, will continue to exceed the well-capitalized minimum capital requirements.

