 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the acquisition, development and commercialization of novel targeted therapies covering a spectrum of blood-related cancers that offer a unique benefit to patients and health care providers. Our goal is to build a profitable company by generating income from products we develop and commercialize, either alone or with partners. We are currently concentrating our efforts on treatments that target blood-related cancers where there is an unmet medical need. In particular, we are primarily focused on commercializing PIXUVRI in select countries in the European Union, or the E.U., for multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or NHL, and evaluating pacritinib for the treatment of adult patients with myelofibrosis. 

PIXUVRI 

PIXUVRI is a novel aza-anthracenedione with unique structural and physiochemical properties. In May 2012, the European Commission granted conditional marketing authorization in the E.U. for PIXUVRI as a monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. PIXUVRI is the first approved treatment in the E.U. for patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL who have failed two or three prior lines of therapy. As a part of the conditional marketing authorization, we are required to conduct a post-authorization trial, which we refer to as PIX306, comparing PIXUVRI and rituximab with gemcitabine and rituximab in the setting of aggressive B-cell NHL. Although we do not have and are not currently pursuing regulatory approval of PIXUVRI in the U.S., we may reevaluate a possible submission strategy in the U.S. based on the data generated from the PIX306 study. Pursuant to our conditional marketing authorization in the E.U., we are required to submit the requisite clinical study report for PIX306 by November 2016. We plan to request an extension of such deadline. 

In September 2014, we entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement, or the Servier Agreement, with Les Laboratoires Servier and Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, or collectively, Servier, with respect to the development and commercialization of PIXUVRI. Under the Servier Agreement, we retain full commercialization rights to PIXUVRI in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom, or the U.K., and the U.S., while Servier has exclusive rights to commercialize PIXUVRI in all other countries. PIXUVRI is currently available in Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the U.K. and has achieved reimbursement decisions under varying conditions in England/Wales, Italy, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain. For additional information on our collaboration with Servier, please see the discussion in Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business - License Agreements and Additional Milestone Activities - Servier&#8221;. 

Pacritinib 

Our lead development candidate, pacritinib, is an investigational oral kinase inhibitor with specificity for JAK2, FLT3, IRAK1 and CSF1R. The JAK family of enzymes is a central component in signal transduction pathways, which are critical to normal blood cell growth and development, as well as inflammatory cytokine expression and immune responses. Mutations in these kinases have been shown to be directly related to the development of a variety of blood-related cancers, including myeloproliferative neoplasms, leukemia and lymphoma. In addition to myelofibrosis, the kinase profile of pacritinib suggests its potential therapeutic utility in conditions such as acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or CMML, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, due to its inhibition of c-fms, IRAK1, JAK2 and FLT3. We believe pacritinib has the potential to be delivered as a single agent or in combination therapy regimens. 

In collaboration with Baxalta Incorporated and its affiliates, or Baxalta, pursuant to our worldwide license agreement to develop and commercialize pacritinib, we are pursuing a comprehensive approach to advancing pacritinib for adult patients with myelofibrosis by conducting two Phase 3 clinical trials: one in a broad set of patients without limitations on blood platelet counts, the PERSIST-1 trial; and the other in patients with low platelet counts, the PERSIST-2 trial. 

In May 2015, we announced the final results from PERSIST-1, our pivotal Phase 3 trial of pacritinib in patients with myelofibrosis, without exclusion for low platelet counts. In December 2015, primarily based on the results of the PERSIST-1 trial, we and Baxalta submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for pacritinib requesting U.S. marketing approval of pacritinib for the treatment of patients with intermediate and high-risk myelofibrosis with low platelet counts of less than 50,000 per microliter (&#60;50,000/&#181;L) for whom there are no approved 

therapies. In August 2014, pacritinib was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for the treatment of intermediate and high risk myelofibrosis, including, but not limited, to patients with disease-related thrombocytopenia, patients experiencing treatment-emergent thrombocytopenia on other JAK2 therapy or patients who are intolerant of, or whose symptoms are sub-optimally managed on, other JAK2 therapy. The FDA&#8217;s Fast Track process is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. In December 2015, we completed the NDA submission for pacritinib. 

On February 8, 2016, the FDA notified us that a full clinical hold has been placed on pacritinib clinical studies. A full clinical hold is a suspension of the clinical work requested under the investigational new drug, or an IND, application. Under the full clinical hold, all patients currently on pacritinib must discontinue pacritinib immediately and no patients can be enrolled or start pacritinib as initial or crossover treatment. In its written notification, the FDA cited the reasons for the full clinical hold were that it noted interim overall survival results from the PERSIST-2 Phase 3 trial showing a detrimental effect on survival consistent with the results from PERSIST-1. The deaths in PERSIST-2 in pacritinib-treated patients include intracranial hemorrhage, cardiac failure and cardiac arrest. In connection with the full clinical hold, the FDA has recommended that we conduct Phase 1 dose exploration studies of pacritinib in patients with myelofibrosis, submit final study reports and datasets for PERSIST-1 and PERSIST-2, provide certain notifications, revise relevant statements in the related Investigator&#8217;s Brochure and informed consent documents and make certain modifications to protocols. In addition, the FDA recommended that we request a meeting prior to submitting a response to full clinical hold. As a result of the full clinical hold of pacritinib, we have withdrawn the NDA until such time that we have reviewed the safety and efficacy data from PERSIST-2 and decide next steps. 

For additional information concerning the final results of PERSIST-1, see Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business - Development Candidates - Pacritinib - Development in Myelofibrosis &#8221;. We share joint commercialization rights to pacritinib with Baxalta in the U.S., while Baxalta has exclusive commercialization rights for all indications outside the U.S. 

Other Pipeline Candidates 

Our earlier stage product candidate, tosedostat, is a novel oral, once-daily aminopeptidase inhibitor that has demonstrated significant responses in patients with AML. It is currently being evaluated in several Phase 2 cooperative group-sponsored trials and investigator-sponsored trials, or ISTs. These trials are evaluating tosedostat in combination with hypomethylating agents in AML and MDS, which are cancers of the blood and bone marrow. We anticipate data from these signal-finding trials may be used to determine an appropriate design for a Phase 3 trial. 

Although our efforts are focused on developing and commercializing treatments that target blood-related cancers, we continue to evaluate our pipeline candidate paclitaxel poliglumex, or Opaxio &#8482; , which targets solid tumors. We are evaluating this candidate through cooperative group sponsored trials and ISTs, such as the ongoing maintenance therapy trial in patients with ovarian cancer. 

Our Strategy 

Our objective is to become a leader in the acquisition, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics for the treatment of blood-related cancers. The key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives are to: 

&#8226; 

Commercialize PIXUVRI. &#32;Together with Servier, we intend to continue our efforts to build a successful PIXUVRI franchise in Europe as well as other markets. We are currently focused on educating physicians on the unmet medical need and building brand awareness for PIXUVRI among physicians in the countries where PIXUVRI is available. A successful outcome from the post-authorization trial, PIX306, will enable us to potentially obtain full marketing authorization from the European Commission and expand the market potential for PIXUVRI. 

&#8226; 

Develop Pacritinib in Myelofibrosis and Additional Indications. &#32;Together with our partner, Baxalta, we intend to develop and commercialize pacritinib for adult patients with myelofibrosis. 

&#8226; 

Continue to Develop our Other Pipeline Programs. &#32;We believe that it is important to maintain a diverse pipeline to sustain our future growth. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to advance the development of our other pipeline candidates through cooperative group sponsored trials and ISTs. Sponsoring such trials provides us with a more economical approach for further developing our investigational products. 

&#8226; 

Evaluate Strategic Product Collaborations to Accelerate Development and Commercialization. &#32;Where we believe it may be beneficial, we intend to evaluate additional collaborations to broaden and accelerate clinical trial 

development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Collaborations have the potential to generate non-equity based operating capital, supplement our own internal expertise and provide us with access to the marketing, sales and distribution capabilities of our collaborators in specific territories. 

&#8226; 

Identify and Acquire Additional Pipeline Opportunities. &#32;Our current pipeline is the result of licensing and acquiring assets that we believe were initially undervalued opportunities. We plan to continue to seek out additional product candidates in an opportunistic manner. 

Product and Development Portfolio 

The following table summarizes our current product and development portfolio as of February 10, 2016: 

&#160; 

Indications/Intended Use 

Status 

&#160; 

PIXUVRI 

(pixantrone) 

Multiply relapsed aggressive B-cell NHL 

Marketed in E.U.; Conditional Marketing Authorization 

Aggressive NHL, 2nd line &#62;1 relapse, combination with rituximab (PIX306) post-approval study 

Phase 3: Enrollment ongoing 

&#160; 

Pacritinib 

&#160; 

Myelofibrosis, PERSIST-1, All platelet levels 

Phase 3: Enrollment completed; Final results presented at medical meeting; Full FDA clinical hold 

Myelofibrosis, PERSIST-2, Platelet counts &#8804;100,000/&#181;L 

Phase 3: Enrollment completed; Full FDA clinical hold 

&#160; 

Tosedostat 

AML/MDS(1) 

Phase 2: Multiple studies ongoing 

&#160; 

Opaxio 

&#160; 

Ovarian cancer, maintenance(1) 

Phase 3: Patient follow-up ongoing 

&#160; 

(1) 

We support the development of these investigational agents through cooperative group sponsored trials. 

Oncology Market Overview and Opportunity 

According to the American Cancer Society, or ACS, cancer is the second leading cause of death in the U.S., resulting in close to 595,690 deaths annually, or more than 1,630 people per day. Approximately 1.7 million new cases of cancer were expected to be diagnosed in 2016 in the U.S. The most commonly used methods for treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. Patients usually receive a combination of these treatments depending upon the type and extent of their disease. 

We believe our expertise in blood-related cancers, together with our ability to identify unique therapies that address unmet medical needs that are potentially less toxic and more effective at treating and curing patients, fills a significant unmet medical need for cancer patients. 

Commercialized Product 

PIXUVRI 

Overview 

PIXUVRI is a novel aza-anthracenedione with unique structural and physiochemical properties. In May 2012, the European Commission granted conditional marketing authorization in the E.U. for PIXUVRI as a monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. PIXUVRI is the first approved treatment in the E.U. for patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL who have failed two or three prior lines of therapy. Similar to accelerated approval regulations in the U.S., conditional marketing authorizations can be 

granted in the E.U. by the European Commission in exceptional circumstances in accordance with the procedures discussed in Part I, Item 1, Business - Government Regulation - Non-U.S. Regulation . A conditional marketing authorization is required to be renewed annually. As a part of the conditional marketing authorization, we are required to conduct a post-authorization trial, PIX306, comparing PIXUVRI and rituximab with gemcitabine and rituximab in the setting of aggressive B-cell NHL. Pursuant to our conditional marketing authorization in the E.U., we are required to submit the requisite clinical study report for PIX306 by November 2016. We plan to request an extension of such deadline. PIXUVRI is not approved in the U.S., however, we believe that the data from the PIX306 study could potentially support a registration application in the U.S. 

PIXUVRI for the Treatment of NHL 

We are specifically developing and commercializing PIXUVRI for the treatment of aggressive NHL. NHL is caused by the abnormal proliferation of lymphocytes, which are cells key to the functioning of the immune system. NHL usually originates in lymph nodes and spreads through the lymphatic system. The ACS estimated that there would be 72,580 people diagnosed with NHL in the U.S. and approximately 20,150 people would die from this disease in 2016. The World Health Organization&#8217;s International Agency for Research on Cancer&#8217;s 2012 GLOBOCAN database estimates that, in the E.U., approximately 79,312 people will be diagnosed with NHL and 30,730 are estimated to die from NHL annually. NHL is the seventh most common type of cancer. NHL can be broadly classified into two main forms, each with many subtypes; aggressive NHL is a rapidly growing form of the disease that moves into advanced stages much faster than indolent NHL, which progresses more slowly. 

Aggressive B-cell NHL is the most common subtype, accounting for about 55 percent of NHL cases. After initial therapy for aggressive NHL with anthracycline-based combination therapy, one-third of patients typically develop progressive disease. Approximately half of these patients are likely to be eligible for intensive second-line treatment and stem cell transplantation, although 50 percent are expected not to respond. For those patients who fail to respond or relapse following second line treatment, treatment options are limited and usually palliative only. PIXUVRI is the first treatment approved in the E.U. for patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. 

Commercialization of PIXUVRI in the E.U. 

In September 2012, we initiated E.U. commercialization of PIXUVRI and in September 2014 we entered into a collaboration arrangement with Servier, under which we have full commercialization rights to PIXUVRI in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, the U.K., and the U.S., while Servier has exclusive rights to commercialize PIXUVRI in all other countries. PIXUVRI is currently available in Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the U.K. and has achieved reimbursement decisions under varying conditions in England/Wales, Italy, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain. For additional information on our collaboration with Servier, please see the discussion in Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business - License Agreements and Additional Milestone Activities - Servier &#8221;. 

As discussed in Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business-Manufacturing, Distribution and Associated Operations,&#8221; we utilize third parties for the manufacture, storage and distribution of PIXUVRI, as well as for other associated supply chain operations. Our strategy of utilizing third parties in such manner allows us to direct our resources to the development and commercialization of compounds rather than to the establishment and maintenance of facilities for such operational activities. 

Development Candidates 

Pacritinib 

Development in Myelofibrosis 

Our lead development candidate, pacritinib, is an investigational oral kinase inhibitor with specificity for JAK2, FLT3, IRAK1 and CSF1R. The JAK family of enzymes is a central component in signal transduction pathways, which are critical to normal blood cell growth and development, as well as inflammatory cytokine expression and immune responses. Mutations in these kinases have been shown to be directly related to the development of a variety of blood-related cancers, including myeloproliferative neoplasms, leukemia and lymphoma. The kinase profile of pacritinib suggests its potential therapeutic utility in conditions such AML, MDS, CMML and CLL, due to its inhibition of c-fms, IRAK1, JAK2 and FLT3. 

In August 2014, pacritinib was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for the treatment of intermediate and high risk myelofibrosis, including, but not limited, to patients with disease-related thrombocytopenia, patients experiencing treatment-emergent thrombocytopenia on other JAK2 therapy or patients who are intolerant of, or whose symptoms are sub- 

optimally managed on, other JAK2 therapy. The FDA&#8217;s Fast Track process is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. 

We are pursuing a comprehensive approach to advancing pacritinib for adult patients with myelofibrosis by conducting two Phase 3 clinical trials: one in a broad set of patients without limitations on blood platelet counts, the PERSIST-1 trial; and the other in patients with low platelet counts, the PERSIST-2 trial. Myelofibrosis is a rare blood cancer associated with significantly reduced quality of life and shortened survival. As the disease progresses, the body slows production of important blood cells and within one year of diagnosis, the incidence of disease-related thrombocytopenia (very low blood platelet counts), severe anemia and red blood cell transfusion requirements increase significantly. Among other complications, most patients with myelofibrosis present with enlarged spleens (splenomegaly), as well as many other potentially devastating physical symptoms such as abdominal discomfort, bone pain, feeling full after eating little, severe itching, night sweats and extreme fatigue. We believe pacritinib may offer an advantage over other JAK inhibitors through effective treatment of symptoms while having less treatment-emergent thrombocytopenia and anemia than has been seen in the currently approved JAK inhibitor. 

PERSIST-1 is a randomized (2:1), open-label, multi-center registration-directed Phase 3 registration-directed trial comparing the efficacy and safety of pacritinib with that of best available therapy other than JAK inhibitors, in 327 patients with myelofibrosis, without exclusion for low platelet counts. The primary endpoint for PERSIST-1 was the proportion of patients achieving a 35 percent or greater reduction in spleen volume from baseline to Week 24 as measured by MRI or CT, when compared with physician-specified best available therapy, excluding treatment with JAK2 inhibitors. The secondary endpoint was the percentage of patients achieving a 50 percent or greater reduction in Total Symptom Score, or TSS, from baseline to week 24 as measured by tracking specific symptoms on a form, or Patient Reported Outcome, or PRO, instrument. At study entry, 46 percent of patients were thrombocytopenic; 32 percent of patients had platelet counts less than 100,000 per microliter (&#60;100,000/&#181;L); and 16 percent of patients had platelet counts less than 50,000 per microliter (&#60;50,000/&#181;L); normal platelet counts range from 150,000 to 450,000 per microliter. At the time of initiation of the trial, PERSIST-1 utilized the Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form, or MPN-SAF TSS, the PRO instrument developed by Mayo Clinic, to measure TSS reduction. We collaborated with Mayo Clinic and the FDA and developed a modified instrument to be used as the endpoint for pacritinib clinical development. As a result, we amended the PERSIST-1 trial protocol to replace the original MPN-SAF TSS instrument with a new instrument, known as the MPN-SAF TSS 2.0, which is also being used for recording patient-reported outcomes for the PERSIST-2 trial. In connection with this amendment, we increased patient enrollment in the PERSIST-1 study from 270 to 327 patients. The trial enrolled patients at clinical sites in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the U.S. The PRO Consortium, of which we are an active member, was formed by the non-profit Critical Path Institute in cooperation with the FDA and the medical products industry. 

In May 2015, data from PERSIST-1 showed that compared to best available therapy (exclusive of a JAK inhibitor) pacritinib therapy resulted in a significantly higher proportion of patients with spleen volume reduction and control of disease-related symptoms meeting the primary endpoint of the trial. Treatment with pacritinib resulted in improvements in severe thrombocytopenia and severe anemia, eliminating the need for blood transfusions in a quarter of patients who were transfusion dependent at the time of enrollment. Gastrointestinal symptoms were the most common adverse events and typically lasted for approximately one week. A limited number of patients discontinued treatment due to side effects. There were no Grade 4 gastrointestinal events reported. These results were presented at a late-breaking oral session at the 51st Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting. Additionally, in June 2015, results from PERSIST-1 PRO and other quality of life measures presented at a late-breaking oral session at the 20th Congress of the European Hematology Association showed significant improvements in symptom score with pacritinib therapy compared to best available therapy (exclusive of a JAK inhibitor) across the symptoms reported in the presentation. 

The following table shows the proportion of patients randomized to pacritinib or best available treatment, or BAT, who achieved a &#8805;35% reduction in spleen volume from baseline at Week 24 or up to Week 24 in the intent-to-treat, or ITT, population or evaluable patient population. The greatest difference in treatment arms was observed in evaluable patients with the lowest platelet counts (&#60;50,000/&#181;L platelets) (33.3 percent with pacritinib vs 0 percent with BAT) (p=0.037). 

Spleen Volume Reduction of &#8805;35% at Week 24 by Platelet Levels 

&#160; 

Pacritinib 

BAT 

p-value 

All Platelet Levels 

ITT* 

19.1% (n=220) 

4.7% (n=107) 

0.0003 

Evaluable** 

25.0% (n=168) 

5.9% (n=85) 

&#60;0.0001 

&#160; 

&#60; 100,000/&#181;L platelets 

ITT 

16.7% (n=72) 

0% (n=34) 

0.0086 

Evaluable 

23.5% (n=51) 

0% (n=24) 

0.0072 

&#160; 

&#60; 50,000/&#181;L platelets 

ITT 

22.9% (n=35) 

0% (n=16) 

0.0451 

Evaluable 

33.3% (n=24) 

0% (n=11) 

0.0370 

&#160; 

* ITT - primary analysis included all patients randomized. Patients who missed MRI or CT scans at baseline or at Week 24 were counted as non-responders. 

** Evaluable - analysis included patients who had assessment at both baseline and at Week 24. 

Results from PERSIST-1 PRO and other quality of life measures showed significant improvements in symptom score with pacritinib therapy compared to best available therapy (exclusive of a JAK inhibitor) across the symptoms reported in the presentation. Patients treated with pacritinib experienced greater improvement in their disease-related symptoms (ITT patient population: 24.5 percent of pacritinib-treated patients vs 6.5 percent of BAT-treated patients, p&#60;0.0001; evaluable patient population: 40.9 percent of pacritinib-treated patients vs 9.9 percent of BAT-treated patients, p&#60;0.0001). 

Additionally, 25 percent of patients treated with pacritinib who were severely anemic and transfusion dependent - requiring at least six units of blood in the 90 days prior to study entry - became transfusion independent, compared to zero patients treated with BAT (p&#60;0.05). Among patients with the lowest baseline platelets (&#60;50,000/&#181;L) who received treatment with pacritinib, a significant increase in platelet counts was observed over time compared to BAT (p=0.003) - with a 35 percent increase in platelet counts from baseline to Week 24. 

The most common adverse events, occurring in 10 percent or more of patients treated with pacritinib within 24 weeks, of any grade, were: mild to moderate diarrhea (53.2 percent vs 12.3 percent with BAT), nausea (26.8 percent vs 6.6 percent with BAT), anemia (22.3 percent vs 19.8 percent with BAT), thrombocytopenia (16.8 percent vs 13.2 percent with BAT), and vomiting (15.9 percent vs 5.7 percent with BAT). Of the patients treated with pacritinib, 3 discontinued therapy and 13 patients required dose interruption (average one week) for diarrhea. Patients received a daily full dose of pacritinib over the duration of treatment. Gastrointestinal symptoms typically lasted for approximately one week and few patients discontinued treatment due to side effects. There were no Grade 4 gastrointestinal events reported. 

In September 2015, following a pre-NDA meeting for pacritinib, we announced our plan to submit a rolling NDA to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2015. In December 2015, we completed the NDA submission and requested marketing approval for the treatment of patients with intermediate and high-risk myelofibrosis with low platelet counts of less than 50,000 per microliter (&#60;50,000/&#181;L) for whom there are no approved therapies. We were seeking accelerated approval and the NDA was based primarily on data from the PERSIST-1 Phase 3 trial, as well as data from Phase 1 and 2 studies and additional data requested by the FDA, including a separate study report and datasets for the specific patient population with low platelet counts of less than 50,000 per microliter (&#60;50,000/&#181;L) for whom there are no approved therapies. 

The PERSIST-2 trial is a randomized (2:1), open-label, multi-center registration-directed Phase 3 trial evaluating pacritinib compared to best available therapy, including the approved JAK inhibitor dosed according to product label, for patients with myelofibrosis whose platelet counts are less than or equal to 100,000 per microliter (&#8804;100,000/&#181;L). Patients are being randomized to receive 200 mg pacritinib twice daily, 400 mg pacritinib once daily or best available therapy. In October 2013, we reached an agreement with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, for the PERSIST-2 trial regarding the planned design, endpoints and statistical analysis approach of the trial. The SPA is a written agreement between us and the FDA regarding the design, endpoints and planned statistical analysis approach of the trial to be used in support of a NDA submission. Under the SPA, the agreed upon co-primary endpoints are the percentage of patients achieving a 35 percent or greater reduction in spleen volume measured by MRI or CT scan from baseline to week 24 of treatment and the percentage of patients achieving a TSS reduction of 50 percent or greater using eight key symptoms as measured by the modified MPN-SAF TSS 2.0 diary from baseline to week 24. The design of PERSIST-1 and PERSIST-2 allows for patients on the BAT arm to 

crossover and receive treatment with pacritinib if their disease progresses or after they achieve the 24-week measurement endpoint. Although crossover design of clinical trials may confound evaluation of survival, such designs are frequently used in cancer studies, and the FDA has approved multiple oncology drugs that utilized crossover design in Phase 3 trials. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee, or IDMC, in place at the time for the PERSIST program recommended patients on the best available therapy arm should not crossover to receive pacritinib due to non-statistically significant safety concerns in patients who crossover after 24 weeks, which crossover confounds evaluation of survival. After receiving input from external independent experts and providing the FDA the PERSIST-1 data, IDMC&#8217;s recommendation and correspondence, we and Baxalta notified the FDA of the decision to proceed per protocol. Following a written response in lieu of a Type C meeting with the FDA, we and Baxalta determined that no modifications to the ongoing trials were required. Patient enrollment in PERSIST-2 was completed in February 2016 and over 300 patients were enrolled in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Russia. In early February, the FDA notified us that a full clinical hold has been placed on pacritinib. A full clinical hold is a suspension of the clinical work requested under an investigational NDA. Under the full clinical hold, all patients currently receiving pacritinib must discontinue pacritinib, and no new patients may start pacritinib as initial or crossover treatment. 

Development in Other Indications 

In December 2014, we announced results of a preclinical analysis of kinase inhibition by pacritinib that demonstrated a unique kinome profile among agents in development for myelofibrosis and suggests potential therapeutic benefit across a spectrum of blood-related cancers. Pacritinib&#8217;s potent inhibition of FLT3, c-fms, IRAK1 and c-kit highlight its potential therapeutic utility in other indications, such as AML, MDS, CMML and CLL, which are currently being evaluated in Phase 2 clinical trials. One such trial is an international cooperative group Phase 2 clinical trial of pacritinib in adult patients with relapsed AML with mutations of the FLT3 gene. Mutation of the FLT3 gene is found in approximately one-third of AML patients and is an independent risk factor for poor prognosis. Pacritinib has demonstrated encouraging activity in preclinical models of AML with mutated FLT3 gene, including additional FLT3 mutations that confer resistance to other targeted FLT3 agents. The trial is being conducted by the AML Working Group of the National Cancer Research Institute Haematological Oncology Study Group in AML and high risk MDS under the sponsorship of Cardiff University and supported by Cancer Research UK. Patients currently receiving pacritinib must stop doing so as a result of the full clinical hold placed on pacritinib. 

Full Clinical Hold on Pacritinib IND 

On February 8, 2016, the FDA notified us that a full clinical hold has been placed on pacritinib clinical studies. A full clinical hold is a suspension of the clinical work requested under the investigational new drug, or an IND, application. Under the full clinical hold, all patients currently on pacritinib must discontinue pacritinib immediately and no patients can be enrolled or start pacritinib as initial or crossover treatment. In its written notification, the FDA cited the reasons for the full clinical hold were that it noted interim overall survival results from the PERSIST-2 Phase 3 trial showing a detrimental effect on survival consistent with the results from PERSIST-1. The deaths in PERSIST-2 in pacritinib-treated patients include intracranial hemorrhage, cardiac failure and cardiac arrest. In connection with the full clinical hold, the FDA has recommended that we conduct Phase 1 dose exploration studies of pacritinib in patients with myelofibrosis, submit final study reports and datasets for PERSIST-1 and PERSIST-2, provide certain notifications, revise relevant statements in the related Investigator&#8217;s Brochure and informed consent documents and make certain modifications to protocols. In addition, the FDA recommended that we request a meeting prior to submitting a response to full clinical hold. As a result of the full clinical hold of pacritinib, we have withdrawn the NDA until such time that we have reviewed the safety and efficacy data from PERSIST-2 and decide next steps. 

Contractual Arrangements Relating to Pacritinib 

Under the Pacritinib License Agreement (defined below), we share joint commercialization rights to pacritinib with Baxalta in the U.S., while Baxalta has exclusive commercialization rights for all indications outside the U.S. For additional information relating to the Pacritinib License Agreement, see Part I, Item 2, &#8220;License Agreements and Milestone Activities -Baxalta&#8221;. 

Tosedostat 

Tosedostat is a first-in-class selective inhibitor of aminopeptidases, which are required by tumor cells to provide amino acids necessary for growth and tumor cell survival. Tosedostat has demonstrated anti-tumor responses in blood-related cancers and solid tumors in Phase 1 and 2 clinical studies. Specifically, study results presented for tosedostat in AML have shown promising complete response, or CR, rates and good tolerability. Several ongoing Phase 2 cooperative group sponsored trials and ISTs are further evaluating the activity of tosedostat in combination with standard agents in patients with AML or MDS. 

We anticipate that data from these signal-finding trials may inform the appropriate design for a Phase 3 study to support potential regulatory approval. 

In June 2014, we announced the initiation of an international cooperative group Phase 2/3 clinical trial of tosedostat in combination with low-dose cytarabine in older patients with AML or high risk MDS. The study is being conducted by the National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) Haematological Oncology Study Group under the sponsorship of Cardiff University. In this Phase 2/3 study, referred to as AML Less Intensive or LI-1, patients are being randomized to standard treatment, low dose cytarabine, versus other novel investigational treatments, one of which is tosedostat, each in combination with low dose cytarabine. The trial utilizes a &#8220;Pick a Winner&#8221; trial design. Overall survival is the primary endpoint of this trial. 

In November 2015, based on the randomized Phase 2 interim analysis of the LI-1 study, the trial management group determined that tosedostat should proceed to the next stage of the study. The aim of the trial is to identify treatments that can double the 2-year survival of patients in this group. It is anticipated that an additional 110 patients will be required in such phase. A further evaluation will take place before the intended expansion to a 400 patient Phase 3 trial. 

In December 2015, results from a separate investigator-sponsored Phase 2 trial of tosedostat in combination with low-dose cytarabine/Ara-C, or LDAC, in elderly patients with either primary AML or AML were presented at the American Society of Hematology Annual Meeting. The Phase 2 multicenter clinical trial was designed to assess tosedostat (orally once-daily) in combination with intermittent LDAC (twice daily) in 33 elderly patients (median age = 75 years) with either primary AML or secondary AML. This presentation reported on the results of 33 patients (median age was 75) that were enrolled. The study met the primary endpoint with an overall response rate (ORR) of 54.6 percent (n=18/33) in the ITT population. The study achieved a CR rate of 48.5 percent (n=16/33) and the median time for achieving best response was 74 days (range: 22-145 days) with 33 percent still in remission (or experiencing a CR) after a median follow-up of 506 days. Safety analysis show that tosedostat in combination with LDAC was generally well tolerated. The primary adverse events observed were pneumonitis (12 percent), cardiac (6 percent), brain hemorrhage (3 percent), and asthenia (3 percent). 

Opaxio 

Opaxio is a novel biologically-enhanced chemotherapeutic agent that links paclitaxel to a biodegradable polyglutamate polymer, resulting in a new chemical entity. Taxanes, including paclitaxel (Taxol&#174;) and docetaxel (Taxotere&#174;), are widely used for the treatment of various solid tumors, including non-small cell lung, ovarian, breast and prostate cancers. 

Opaxio was designed to deliver paclitaxel preferentially to tumor tissue. By linking paclitaxel to a biodegradable amino acid carrier, the conjugated chemotherapeutic agent is inactive in the bloodstream, sparing normal tissues the toxic side effects of chemotherapy. Once inside tumor tissue, the conjugated chemotherapeutic agent is activated and released by the action of an enzyme called cathepsin B. Opaxio remains stable in the bloodstream for several days after administration; this prolonged circulation allows the passive accumulation of the drug in tumor tissue. 

The development of Opaxio as a potential maintenance therapy for women with advanced stage ovarian cancer who achieve a complete remission following first-line therapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin is being conducted and managed by the Gynecologic Oncology Group, or GOG, now part of NRG Oncology, which is one of the National Cancer Institute&#8217;s funded cooperative cancer research groups focused on the study of gynecologic malignancies. 

The GOG-0212 study is a randomized, multicenter, open-label Phase 3 trial of either monthly Opaxio or paclitaxel for up to 12 consecutive months compared to surveillance among women with advanced ovarian cancer who have no evidence of disease following first-line platinum-taxane based therapy. For purposes of registration, the primary endpoint of the study is overall survival of Opaxio compared to no maintenance therapy. Secondary endpoints are PFS, safety and quality of life. The statistical analysis plan calls for up to four interim analyses and one final analysis, each with boundaries for early closure for superior efficacy or for futility. Additional information about GOG-0212 may be found at www.clinicaltrials.gov, study identifier NCT00108745; however, the information found on such website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We acquired an exclusive worldwide license for rights to paclitaxel poligumex and certain polymer technology from PG-TXL Company, L.P., or PG-TXL, in November 1998 as discussed below in Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business - License Agreements and Additional Milestone Activities - PG-TXL &#8221;. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development is essential to our business. We spent $76.6 million, $64.6 million and $33.6 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, on company-sponsored research and development activities. The development of a product candidate involves inherent risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, that we cannot predict with any certainty the pace of enrollment of our clinical trials. As a result, we are unable to provide the nature, timing and estimated costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of pacritinib, tosedostat and Opaxio or to complete the post-approval commitment study of PIXUVRI. Further, third parties are conducting clinical trials for tosedostat and Opaxio. Even after a clinical trial is enrolled, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval and advancement of this compound through the development process. For these reasons, among others, we cannot estimate the date on which clinical development of these product candidates will be completed or when, if ever, we will generate material net cash inflows from PIXUVRI or be able to commence commercialization of pacritinib, tosedostat and Opaxio. For additional information relating to our research and development expenses and associated risks, see Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 - Operating costs and expenses - Research and development expenses &#8221; and Part I, Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;. 

License Agreements and Additional Milestone Activities &#32; 

Servier 

In September 2014, we entered into the Servier Agreement pursuant to which we granted Servier an exclusive and sublicensable (subject to certain conditions) royalty-bearing license with respect to the development and commercialization of PIXUVRI for use in pharmaceutical products outside of the CTI Territory (defined below). We retained rights to PIXUVRI in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, the U.K. and the U.S., or collectively, the CTI Territory. 

We received an upfront payment in October 2014 of &#8364;14.0 million (or $17.8 million using the currency exchange rate as of the date we received the funds in October 2014). In addition, subject to the achievement of certain conditions, the Servier Agreement provides for us to potentially receive milestone payments thereunder in the aggregate amount of up to &#8364;89.0 million, which is comprised of the following: up to &#8364;49.0 million in potential clinical and regulatory milestone payments (of which &#8364;9.5 million is payable upon occurrence of certain enrollment events in connection with the PIX306 study for PIXUVRI); and up to &#8364;40.0 million in potential sales-based milestone payments. Of these potential milestone payments, we have received a &#8364;1.5 million (or $1.7 million upon conversion from euros as of the date we received the funds) milestone payment relating to the attainment of reimbursement approval for PIXUVRI in Spain. In addition, for a number of years following the first commercial sale of a product containing PIXUVRI in the respective country, regardless of patent expiration or expiration of regulatory exclusivity rights, we are eligible to receive tiered royalty payments ranging from a low-double digit percentage up to a percentage in the mid-twenties based on net sales of PIXUVRI products, subject to certain reductions of up to mid-double digit percentages under certain circumstances. 

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, (i) certain development costs incurred pursuant to a development plan and (ii) certain marketing costs incurred pursuant to a marketing plan will be shared equally by the parties, subject to a maximum dollar obligation of each party. 

The Servier Agreement will expire on a country-by-country basis upon the expiration of the royalty terms in the countries outside of the CTI Territory, at which time all licenses granted to Servier would become perpetual and royalty-free. Each party may terminate the Servier Agreement in the event of an uncured repudiatory breach (as defined under English law) of the other party&#8217;s obligations. Servier may also terminate the Servier Agreement without cause on a country-by-country basis upon written notice to us within a specified time period or upon written notice within a certain period of days in the event of (i) certain safety or public health issues involving PIXUVRI or (ii) cessation of certain marketing authorizations. In the event of a termination prior to the expiration date, rights granted to Servier will terminate, subject to certain exceptions. 

Baxalta 

In November 2013, we entered into a Development, Commercialization and License Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2013, between Baxter International Inc., or Baxter, and the Company, for the development and commercialization of pacritinib for use in oncology and potentially additional therapeutic areas, or the Original Pacritinib License Agreement. The Original Pacritinib License Agreement, the rights and obligations to which Baxter has assigned to Baxalta, was amended by a first amendment thereto, or the Pacritinib License Amendment, effective June 8, 2015. The Original Pacritinib License 

Agreement, as amended by the Pacritinib License Amendment, is referred to herein as the &#8220;Pacritinib License Agreement&#8221;. Under the Pacritinib License Agreement, Baxalta has an exclusive, worldwide (subject to co-promotion rights discussed below), royalty-bearing, non-transferable license (which is sub-licensable under certain circumstances) relating to pacritinib. Licensed products under the Pacritinib License Agreement consist of products in which pacritinib is an ingredient. 

We received an upfront payment of $60 million under the Pacritinib License Agreement, which included a $30 million investment in our equity. The Pacritinib License Agreement also provides for us to receive potential additional payments of up to $302 million upon the successful achievement of certain development and commercialization milestones, comprised of $112 million of potential clinical, regulatory and commercial launch milestone payments, and potential additional sales milestone payments of up to $190 million. Of such potential milestone payments, we have received $52 million to date relating to the achievement of a clinical milestone in August 2014, the PERSIST-2 Milestone (as defined below) in January 2016 and the MAA Milestone (as defined below) in February 2016. 

In June 2015, we entered into the Pacritinib License Amendment. Pursuant to the Pacritinib License Amendment, two potential milestone payments in the aggregate amount of $32.0 million from Baxalta to us were accelerated from the schedule contemplated by the original Pacritinib License Agreement relating to the following: the $20.0 million development milestone payment payable in connection with the first treatment dosing of the 300th patient enrolled per the protocol in PERSIST-2, or the PERSIST-2 Milestone, and the $12.0 million development milestone payment payable in connection with the regulatory submission of the Marketing Authorization Application, or the MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, with respect to pacritinib, or the MAA Milestone. Such advances bear interest at an annual rate of 9% percent until the earlier of (i) the date of first occurrence of the respective milestone and (ii) the date that the respective advance plus accrued interest is repaid in full. In the event that pacritinib development is terminated either because of a regulatory determination that the benefit/risk profile of the drug candidate is unacceptable or due to safety concerns or certain other reasons, including the failure of pacritinib to meet certain criteria or certain endpoints, or a Milestone Failure, we would be required to repay the respective advance to Baxalta in eight quarterly installments beginning thirty days after the end of the calendar quarter of the first occurrence of a Milestone Failure and a final payment equal to the remainder of the unpaid balance, or the Repayment Terms. In January 2016 and in February 2016, we successfully achieved the $20 million PERSIST-2 Enrollment Milestone and the $12 million MAA Milestone, respectively. 

Under the Pacritinib License Agreement, we were responsible for all development costs incurred prior to January 1, 2014 and are responsible for approximately $96 million in U.S. and E.U. development costs incurred thereafter, subject to potential adjustment in certain circumstances. All development costs exceeding the $96 million threshold will generally be shared as follows: (i) costs generally applicable worldwide will be shared 75 percent by Baxalta and 25 percent by us, (ii) costs applicable to territories exclusive to Baxalta will be 100 percent borne by Baxalta and (iii) costs applicable exclusively to co-promotion in the U.S. will be shared equally between the parties, subject to certain exceptions. In the event that we do not spend a specified amount on the development of pacritinib from June 8, 2015 through February 29, 2016, payments to Baxalta in an amount equal to such deficiency may be required or credited against amounts owed to us in certain circumstances. We expect to spend the specified amount on the development of pacritinib by February 29, 2016. We and Baxalta have each been allocated up to 50% of the manufacturing (subject to certain conditions), with certain pricing adjustments based on comparative costs of supply. In addition, we may be obligated to pay the costs of certain product supplied by our manufacturer to Baxalta if the product does not meet certain prescribed standards. 

Outside the U.S., we are eligible to receive tiered high single digit to mid-teen percentage royalty payments based on net sales for myelofibrosis, and higher double-digit royalties for other indications, subject to reduction by up to 50 percent if (i) Baxalta is required to obtain third party royalty-bearing licenses to fulfill its obligations under the Pacritinib License Agreement and (ii) in any jurisdiction where there is no longer either regulatory exclusivity or patent protection. 

The Pacritinib License Agreement will expire when Baxalta has no further obligation to pay royalties to us in any jurisdiction, at which time the licenses granted to Baxalta will become perpetual and royalty-free. We or Baxalta may terminate the Pacritinib License Agreement prior to its expiration in certain circumstances. Following the one-year anniversary of receipt of regulatory approval in certain countries, we may terminate the Pacritinib License Agreement as to one or more such countries if Baxalta has not undertaken requisite regulatory or commercialization efforts in the applicable country and certain other conditions are met. Baxalta may terminate the Pacritinib License Agreement earlier than its expiration in certain circumstances including (i) in the event development costs for myelofibrosis for the period commencing January 1, 2014 are reasonably projected to exceed a specified threshold, (ii) as to some or all countries in the event of commercial failure of the licensed product or (iii) without cause following the one-year anniversary of the effective date of the Pacritinib License Agreement, provided that such termination will have a lead-in period of six months before it becomes effective. Additionally, either party may terminate the Pacritinib License Agreement prior to its expiration in events of force majeure, or the other 

party&#8217;s uncured material breach or insolvency. In the event of a termination prior to the expiration date, rights in pacritinib will revert to us. 

University of Vermont 

We entered into an agreement with the University of Vermont, or UVM, in March 1995, as amended, or the UVM Agreement, which grants us an exclusive sublicensable license for the rights to PIXUVRI. Pursuant to the UVM Agreement, we acquired the rights to make, have made, sell and use PIXUVRI, and we are obligated to make royalty payments to UVM ranging from low single digits to mid-single digits as a percentage of net sales. The higher royalty rate is payable for net sales in countries where specified UVM licensed patents exist, or where we have obtained orphan drug protection, until such UVM patents or such protection no longer exists. For a period of ten years after first commercialization of PIXUVRI, the lower royalty rate is payable for net sales in such countries after expiration of the designated UVM patents or loss of orphan drug protection, and in all other countries without such specified UVM patents or orphan drug protection. Unless otherwise terminated, the term of the UVM Agreement continues for the life of the licensed patents in those countries in which a licensed patent exists, and continues for ten years after the first sale of PIXUVRI in those countries where no such patents exist. We may terminate the UVM Agreement, on a country-by-country basis or on a patent-by-patent basis, at any time upon advance written notice. UVM may terminate the UVM Agreement upon advance written notice in the event royalty payments are not made. In addition, either party may terminate the UVM Agreement in the event of an uncured material breach of the UVM Agreement by the other party or in the event of bankruptcy of the other party. 

S*BIO 

We acquired the compounds SB1518 (which is referred to as &#8220;pacritinib&#8221;) and SB1578, which inhibit JAK2 and FLT3, from S*BIO Pte Ltd., or S*BIO, in May 2012. Under our agreement with S*BIO, we are required to make milestone payments to S*BIO up to an aggregate amount of $132.5 million if certain U.S., E.U. and Japanese regulatory approvals are obtained or if certain worldwide net sales thresholds are met in connection with any pharmaceutical product containing or comprising any compound that we acquired from S*BIO for use for specific diseases, infections or other conditions. At our election, we may pay up to 50 percent of any milestone payments to S*BIO through the issuance of shares of our common stock or shares of our preferred stock convertible into our common stock. In addition, S*BIO will also be entitled to receive royalty payments from us at incremental rates in the low single-digits based on certain worldwide net sales thresholds on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis. 

Vernalis 

We entered into an amended and restated exclusive license agreement with Vernalis (R&#38;D) Limited, or Vernalis, in October 2014 or the Vernalis License Agreement, for the exclusive worldwide right to use certain patents and other intellectual property rights to develop, market and commercialize tosedostat and certain other compounds. Under the Vernalis License Agreement, we have agreed to make tiered royalty payments of no more than a high single digit percentage of net sales of products containing licensed compounds, with such obligation to continue on a country-by-country basis for the longer of ten years following commercial launch or the expiry of relevant patent claims. 

The Vernalis License Agreement will terminate when the royalty obligations expire, although the parties have early termination rights under certain circumstances, including the following: (i) we have the right to terminate, with three months&#8217; notice, upon the belief that the continued development of tosedostat or any of the other licensed compounds is not commercially viable; (ii) Vernalis has the right to terminate in the event of our uncured failure to pay sums due; and (iii) either party has the right to terminate in event of the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach or insolvency. 

Gynecologic Oncology Group 

We entered into an agreement with the Gynecologic Oncology Group, now part of NRG Oncology, in March 2004, as amended, related to the GOG-0212 trial of Opaxio it is conducting in patients with ovarian cancer. Pursuant to the terms of such agreement, we paid an aggregate of $1.2 million in milestone payments during 2014 based on certain enrollment milestones achieved. We may be required to pay up to an additional $1.0 million upon the attainment of certain other milestones, of which $0.5 million has been recorded in accrued expenses as of December 31, 2015. 

PG-TXL 

In November 1998, we entered into an agreement with PG-TXL, as amended in February 2006, which grants us an exclusive worldwide license for the rights to Opaxio and to all potential uses of PG-TXL&#8217;s polymer technology, or the PG- 

TXL Agreement. Pursuant to the PG-TXL Agreement, we acquired the rights to research, develop, manufacture, market and sell anti-cancer drugs developed using this polymer technology. Pursuant to the PG-TXL Agreement, we are obligated to make payments to PG-TXL upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones of up to $14.4 million. The timing of the remaining milestone payments under the PG-TXL Agreement is based on trial commencements and completions for compounds protected by PG-TXL license rights, and regulatory and marketing approval of those compounds by the FDA and the EMA. Additionally, we are required to make royalty payments to PG-TXL based on net sales. Our royalty obligations range from low to mid-single digits as a percentage of net sales. Unless otherwise terminated, the term of the PG-TXL Agreement continues until no royalties are payable to PG-TXL. We may terminate the PG-TXL Agreement (i) upon advance written notice to PG-TXL in the event issues regarding the safety of the products licensed pursuant to the PG-TXL Agreement arise during development or clinical data obtained reveal a materially adverse tolerability profile for the licensed product in humans, or (ii) for any reason upon advance written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the PG-TXL Agreement (a) upon advance written notice in the event certain license fee payments are not made; (b) in the event of an uncured material breach of the respective material obligations and conditions of the PG-TXL Agreement; or (c) in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy of a party. 

Novartis 

In January 2014, we entered into a Termination Agreement, or the Novartis Termination Agreement, with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., or Novartis, to reacquire the rights to PIXUVRI and Opaxio previously granted to Novartis under our agreement entered into in September 2006, as amended, or the Original Novartis Agreement. Pursuant to the Novartis Termination Agreement, the Original Novartis Agreement was terminated in its entirety, except for certain customary provisions, including those pertaining to confidentiality and indemnification, which survive termination. 

Under the Novartis Termination Agreement, we agreed not to transfer, license, sublicense or otherwise grant rights with respect to intellectual property of PIXUVRI and Opaxio unless the recipient thereof agrees to be bound by the terms of the Novartis Termination Agreement. We also agreed to provide potential payments to Novartis, including a percentage ranging from the low double-digits to the mid-teens, of any consideration received by us or our affiliates in connection with any transfer, license, sublicense or other grant of rights with respect to intellectual property of PIXUVRI or Opaxio, respectively; provided that such payments will not exceed certain prescribed ceilings in the low single digit millions. Novartis is entitled to receive potential payments of up to $16.6 million upon the successful achievement of certain sales milestones of PIXUVRI and Opaxio. We are also obligated to pay to Novartis tiered low single digit percentage royalty payments for the first several hundred million in annual net sales, and ten percent royalty payments thereafter based on annual net sales of each of PIXUVRI and Opaxio, subject to reduction in the event generic drugs are introduced and sold by a third party, causing the sale of PIXUVRI or Opaxio to fall by a percentage in the high double-digits. To the extent we are required to pay royalties on net sales of Opaxio pursuant to the PG-TXL Agreement, we may credit a percentage of the amount of such royalties paid to those payable to Novartis, subject to certain exceptions. Royalty payments for both PIXUVRI and Opaxio are subject to certain minimum floor percentages in the low single digits. 

Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 

In June 2005, we entered into an acquisition agreement with Cephalon, Inc., or Cephalon, pursuant to which we divested of the compound, TRISENOX. Cephalon was subsequently acquired by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., or Teva. Under this agreement, we have the right to receive up to $100 million in payments upon achievement by Teva of specified sales and development milestones related to TRISENOX. To date, we have received $30.0 million of such potential milestone payments as a result of having achieved certain sales milestones. 

Other Agreements 

We have several agreements with contract research organizations, third party manufacturers and distributors that have durations of greater than one year for the development and distribution of certain of our compounds. 

Information about Customer and Geographic Concentrations 

Information about customer and geographic revenue is set forth in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16. Customer and Geographic Concentrations" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We dedicate significant resources to protecting our intellectual property, which is important to our business. We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and various other countries seeking protection of inventions originating from our research and development, and we have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties and through acquisitions. Patents have been issued on many of these applications. We have pending patent applications or issued patents in the U.S. and foreign countries directed to PIXUVRI, pacritinib, tosedostat, Opaxio and other product candidates. However, the lives of these patents are limited. Patents for the individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. 

Our PIXUVRI-directed patents currently in force in Europe began to expire in late March 2015 and will continue to expire through a portion of 2023. Some of these European patents are also subject to Supplementary Protection Certificates such that the extended patents will expire from 2020 to 2027. Although we are seeking to obtain a Supplementary Protection Certificate for one other PIXUVRI-directed patent in Europe that could extend through 2027, there can be no guarantee that such extension will be granted. In the United States, our PIXUVRI-directed U.S. patent will expire in 2024. Our PIXUVRI-directed patents outside of Europe and the U.S. expire from 2015 to 2023. 

Our U.S. and various foreign pacritinib-directed patents expire from 2026 through 2030. Our U.S. and various foreign tosedostat-directed patents expire from 2017 to 2018. Our U.S. and various foreign Opaxio-directed patents primarily expire from 2017 through 2019. 

In the absence of a patent we would, to the extent possible, need to rely on unpatented technology, know-how and confidential information. Ultimately, the lack or expiration at any given time of a patent to protect our compounds may allow our competitors to copy the underlying inventions and better compete with us. 

The risks and uncertainties associated with our intellectual property, including our patents, are discussed in more detail in Part I, Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;. 

Manufacturing, Distribution and Associated Operations 

Our manufacturing strategy utilizes third party contractors for the procurement and manufacture, as applicable, of raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished drug product, as well as for labeling, packaging, storage and distribution of our compounds and associated supply chain operations. As our business continues to expand, we expect that our manufacturing, distribution and related operational requirements will increase correspondingly. Each third party contractor will always undergo a formal qualification process by CTI subject matter experts prior to signing any service agreement and initiating any manufacturing work. One item of increasing importance relates to our commercial supply needs; while we currently have a commercial supply arrangement for PIXUVRI, we do not presently have any such arrangement in place for pacritinib. A qualified commercial supplier for pacritinib has been identified and commercial agreement discussions are in progress. 

Integral to our manufacturing strategy is our quality control and quality assurance program, which includes standard operating procedures and specifications with the goal that our compounds are manufactured in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, and other applicable global regulations. The cGMP compliance includes strict adherence to regulations for quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities for products and product candidates must meet cGMP requirements, and commercialized products must have acquired FDA, EMA and any other applicable regulatory approval. In this regard, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our compounds in accordance with cGMPs for use in clinical trials and distribution. 

We believe our operational strategy of utilizing qualified outside vendors in the foregoing manner allows us to direct our financial and managerial resources to development and commercialization activities, rather than to the establishment and maintenance of a manufacturing and distribution infrastructure. 

Competition 

Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. We face competition from a variety of companies focused on developing oncology drugs. We compete with large pharmaceutical companies and with other 

specialized biotechnology companies. In addition to the specific competitive factors discussed below, new anti-cancer drugs that may be developed and marketed in the future could compete with our various compounds. 

With respect to PIXUVRI, while there are no other products approved in the E.U. as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive NHL, there are other agents approved to treat aggressive NHL that could be used in this setting, including both branded and generic anthracyclines as well as mitoxantrone. 

With respect to our other investigational candidates, if approved, they may face competition from compounds that are currently approved or may be approved in the future. Pacritinib would compete with Jakafi &#174; , which is marketed by Incyte in the U.S., and potentially other candidates in development that target JAK inhibition to treat cancer. Tosedostat would compete with currently marketed products such as Dacogen &#174; , Vidaza &#174; , Revlimid &#174; , Thalomid &#174; &#32;and Clolar &#174; . Opaxio would compete with other taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products such as paclitaxel and generic forms of paclitaxel, docetaxel, Tarceva &#174; , Avastin &#174; , Alimta &#174; , and Abraxane &#174; . 

Many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than us and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. Many of these competitors have products that have been approved or are in development and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. 

Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before us may achieve a significant competitive advantage if their products work through a similar mechanism as our products and if the approved indications are similar. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us. In some instances, such products have already entered late-stage clinical trials or received FDA or European Commission approval. However, cancer drugs with distinctly different mechanisms of action are often used together in combination for treating cancer, allowing several different products to target the same cancer indication or disease type. Such combination therapy is typically supported by clinical trials that demonstrate the advantage of combination therapy over that of a single-agent treatment. 

We believe that our ability to compete successfully will be based on our ability to create and maintain scientifically advanced technology, develop proprietary products, attract and retain scientific personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain required regulatory approvals and manufacture and successfully market our products, either alone or through outside parties. We will continue to seek licenses with respect to technology related to our field of interest and may face competition with respect to such efforts. See the risk factor, &#8220; We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the risks and uncertainties we face due to competition in our industry. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and its implementing regulations set forth, among other things, requirements for the testing, development, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, distribution, import, export, advertising and promotion of our products. Our activities in other countries will be subject to regulation that is similar in nature and scope as that imposed in the U.S., although there can be important differences. Additionally, some significant aspects of regulation in the E.U. are addressed in a centralized way through the EMA and the European Commission, but country-specific regulation by the competent authorities of the E.U. member states remains essential in many respects. 

U.S. Regulation 

In the U.S., the FDA regulates drugs under the FDCA and its implementing regulations, through review and approval of NDAs. NDAs require extensive studies and submission of a large amount of data by the applicant. 

Drug Development 

Preclinical Testing. Before testing any compound in human subjects in the U.S., a company must generate extensive preclinical data. Preclinical testing generally includes laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological studies in several animal species to assess the quality and safety of the product. Animal 

studies must be performed in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s Good Laboratory Practice regulations and the U.S. Department of Agriculture&#8217;s Animal Welfare Act. 

IND Application. Human clinical trials in the U.S. cannot commence until an IND application is submitted and becomes effective. A company must submit preclinical testing results to the FDA as part of the IND application, and the FDA must evaluate whether there is an adequate basis for testing the drug in initial clinical studies in human volunteers. Unless the FDA raises concerns, the IND application becomes effective 30 days following its receipt by the FDA. Once human clinical trials have commenced, the FDA may stop the clinical trials by placing them on &#8220;clinical hold&#8221; because of concerns about the safety of the product being tested, or for other reasons. 

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy human volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of a qualified investigator. The conduct of clinical trials is subject to extensive regulation, including compliance with the FDA&#8217;s bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, requirements, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from and reporting the results of, clinical trials, and are intended to assure that the data and reported results are credible and accurate, and that the rights, safety, and well-being of study participants are protected. Clinical trials must be conducted under protocols that detail the study objectives, parameters for monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria, if any, to be evaluated. Each protocol is reviewed by the FDA as part of the IND application. In addition, each clinical trial must be reviewed, approved, and conducted under the auspices of an institutional review board, or IRB, at the institution conducting the clinical trial. Companies sponsoring the clinical trials, investigators, and IRBs also must comply with regulations and guidelines for obtaining informed consent from the study subjects, complying with the protocol and investigational plan, adequately monitoring the clinical trial and timely reporting adverse events. Foreign studies conducted under an IND application must meet the same requirements that apply to studies being conducted in the U.S. Data from a foreign study not conducted under an IND application may be submitted in support of an NDA if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP and the FDA is able to validate the data. 

A study sponsor is required to submit certain details about active clinical trials and clinical trial results to the National Institutes of Health for public posting on http://clinicaltrials.gov. Human clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap with one another: 

&#8226; 

Phase 1 clinical trials include the initial administration of the investigational drug to humans, typically to a small group of healthy human subjects, but occasionally to a group of patients with the targeted disease or disorder. Phase 1 clinical trials generally are intended to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the drug, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence of effectiveness. 

&#8226; 

Phase 2 clinical trials generally are controlled studies that involve a relatively small sample of the intended patient population, and are designed to develop data regarding the product&#8217;s effectiveness, to determine dose response and the optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. 

&#8226; 

Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted after preliminary evidence of effectiveness has been obtained, and are intended to gather the additional information about safety and effectiveness necessary to evaluate the drug&#8217;s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Generally, Phase 3 clinical development programs consist of expanded, large-scale studies of patients with the target disease or disorder to obtain statistical evidence of the efficacy and safety of the drug, or the safety, purity, and potency of a biological product, at the proposed dosing regimen. 

The sponsoring company, the FDA or the IRB may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Further, success in early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be subject to alternative interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. 

The FDA and IND application sponsor may agree in writing on the design and size of clinical trials intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim in an NDA application. This process is known as a SPA. These agreements may not be changed after the clinical trials begin, except in limited circumstances. The existence of a SPA, however, does not assure approval of a product candidate. 

Drug Approval 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and of the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the investigational product, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or 

more indications. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. Submission of an NDA requires payment of a substantial review user fee to the FDA. The FDA will review the application and may deem it to be inadequate to support commercial marketing, and there can be no assurance that any product approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may also seek the advice of an advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians practicing in the field for which the product is intended, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of the advisory committee. 

The FDA has various programs, including breakthrough therapy, fast track, priority review and accelerated approval that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for one or more of these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs and those that provide meaningful benefit over existing treatments. We cannot be sure that any of our drugs will qualify for any of these programs, or that, if a drug does qualify, the review time will be reduced or the product will be approved. 

Before approving a NDA, the FDA usually will inspect the facility or the facilities where the product is manufactured, tested and distributed and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. If the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities as acceptable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter contains a number of conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA. When and if those conditions have been met to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug for specific indications. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the product&#8217;s safety or efficacy, or impose other post-approval commitment conditions. 

&#160; 

In some circumstances, post-marketing testing may include post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, which are used primarily to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended population, particularly for long-term safety follow-up. In addition, the FDA may require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits outweigh the risks. A REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk mitigation tools. 

After approval, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, making certain manufacturing changes or making certain additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. Obtaining approval for a new indication generally requires that additional clinical trials be conducted. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Holders of an approved NDA are required to: (i) report certain adverse reactions to the FDA; (ii) comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products; and (iii) continue to have quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP after approval. The FDA periodically inspects the sponsor&#8217;s records related to safety reporting and/or manufacturing and distribution facilities; this latter effort includes assessment of compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production, quality control and distribution to maintain cGMP compliance. Future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at manufacturing facilities that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Marketing of prescription drugs is also subject to significant regulation through federal and state agencies tasked with consumer protection and prevention of medical fraud, waste and abuse. After approval in the U.S., we must comply with FDA&#8217;s regulation of drug promotion and advertising, including restrictions on off-label promotion, and we comply with federal anti-kickback statutes, limitations on gifts and payments to physicians and reporting of payments to certain third-parties, among other requirements. In December 2007, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of the Inspector General, Health and Human Services as part of our settlement agreement with the U.S. Attorney&#8217;s Office for the Western District of Washington arising out of their investigation into certain of our prior marketing practices relating to TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon in July 2005. The term of the corporate integrity agreement, and the requirement that we establish a compliance committee and compliance program and adopt a formal code of conduct, expired as of December 22, 2012. However, we intend to continue to abide by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code and FDA regulations. 

Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as clinical holds, FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplemental applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution. 

Non-U.S. Regulation 

Before our products can be marketed outside of the U.S., they are subject to regulatory approval similar to that required in the U.S., although the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, including additional clinical trials that may be required, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. No action can be taken to market any product in a country until an appropriate application has been approved by the regulatory authorities in that country. The current approval process varies from country to country, and the time spent in gaining approval varies from that required for FDA approval. In certain countries, the sales price of a product must also be approved. The pricing review period often begins after market approval is granted. Even if a product is approved by a regulatory authority, satisfactory prices may not be approved for such product. 

In the E.U., marketing authorizations for medicinal products can be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process. The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain medicinal products, including orphan medicinal products, medicinal products derived from certain biotechnological processes, advanced therapy medicinal products and certain other new medicinal products containing a new active substance for the treatment of certain diseases. It is optional for certain other products, including medicinal products that are significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovations, or whose authorization would be in the interest of public or animal health. The centralized procedure allows a company to submit a single application to the EMA which will provide a positive opinion regarding the application if it meets certain quality, safety, and efficacy requirements. Based on the opinion of the EMA, the European Commission takes a final decision to grant a centralized marketing authorization which is valid in all 28 E.U. Member States and three of the four European Free Trade Association states (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). 

Unlike the centralized authorization procedure, the decentralized marketing authorization procedure requires a separate application to, and leads to separate approval by, the competent authorities of each E.U. Member State in which the product is to be marketed. One national competent authority selected by the applicant, the Reference Member State, assesses the application for marketing authorization. Following a positive opinion by the competent authority of the Reference Member State the competent authorities of the other E.U. Member States, Concerned Member States are subsequently required to grant marketing authorization for their territory on the basis of this assessment except where grounds of potential serious risk to public health require this authorization to be refused. The mutual recognition procedure is similarly based on the acceptance by the competent authorities of the Concerned Member States of the marketing authorization of a medicinal product by the competent authorities of other Reference Member States. The holder of a national marketing authorization granted by a Reference Member State may submit an application to the competent authority of a Concerned Member State requesting that this authority mutually recognize the marketing authorization delivered by the competent authority of the Reference Member State. 

Similar to accelerated approval regulations in the U.S., conditional marketing authorizations can be granted in the E.U. by the European Commission in exceptional circumstances. A conditional marketing authorization can be granted for medicinal products where a number of criteria are fulfilled; i) although comprehensive clinical data referring to the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product have not been supplied, the benefit/risk balance of the product is positive, ii) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data, iii) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and iv) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. A conditional marketing authorization must be renewed annually. Under the provisions of the conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI, we are required to complete a post-marketing study to further investigate the effects of using PIXUVRI in patients who had received prior treatment with rituximab. 

Even if a product receives authorization in the E.U., there can be no assurance that reimbursement for such product will be secured on a timely basis or at all. Individual countries comprising the EU member states, rather than the EU, have jurisdiction across the region over patient reimbursement or pricing matters. Therefore, we will need to expend significant effort and expense to establish and maintain reimbursement arrangements in the various countries comprising the E.U. and may never succeed in obtaining widespread reimbursement arrangements therein. 

The national authorities of the individual E.U. Member States are free to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. Some E.U. Member States adopt policies according to which a specific price or level of reimbursement is approved for the medicinal product. Other E.U. Member States adopt a system of direct or indirect controls 

on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market, including volume-based arrangements and reference pricing mechanisms. 

Health Technology Assessment, or HTA, of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some E.U. Member States. These E.U. Member States include the U.K, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process, which is governed by the national laws of these countries, is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of the specific medicinal product vary between E.U. Member States. 

Post-Approval Regulation 

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual E.U. Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. Failure by us or by any of our third party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers and distributors to comply with E.U. laws and the related national laws of individual E.U. Member States governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products and marketing of such products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties. These penalties could include delays or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, withdrawal or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines and criminal penalties. 

The holder of an E.U. marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with E.U. pharmacovigilance legislation and its related regulations and guidelines, which entail many requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. These rules can impose on central marketing authorization holders for medicinal products the obligation to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies, which may be time consuming and expensive and could impact our profitability. Non-compliance with such obligations can lead to the variation, suspension or withdrawal of the marketing authorization for the product or imposition of financial penalties or other enforcement measures. In the E.U., PIXUVRI's label includes an inverted black triangle, which indicates that it is subject to additional monitoring, as a condition of authorization of PIXUVRI. 

The manufacturing process for medicinal products in the E.U. is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. Manufacturing requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable E.U. laws, regulations and guidance, including Directive 2001/83/EC, Directive 2003/94/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the European Commission Guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practice. These requirements include compliance with E.U. cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the E.U. with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the E.U. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the E.U. is subject to compliance with the applicable E.U. laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States. 

We and our third party manufacturers are subject to cGMP, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the EMA, the competent authorities of E.U. Member States and other regulatory authorities. The EMA reviews Periodic Safety Update Reports for medicinal products authorized in the E.U. If the EMA has concerns that the risk benefit profile of a product has varied, it can adopt an opinion advising that the existing marketing authorization for the product be suspended or varied and can advise that the marketing authorization holder be obliged to conduct post-authorization safety studies. The EMA opinion is submitted for approval by the European Commission. Failure by the marketing authorization holder to fulfill the obligations for which the approved opinion provides can undermine the on-going validity of the marketing authorization. 

Sales and Marketing Regulations 

In the E.U., the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to E.U. Member States&#8217; laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual E.U. Member States may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply 

with the product&#8217;s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the E.U.. The applicable laws at E.U. level and in the individual E.U. Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the E.U. could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals. 

Anti-Corruption Legislation 

Our business activities outside of the U.S. are subject to anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians&#8217; codes of professional conduct or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. 

Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians&#8217; codes of professional conduct developed at both E.U. level and in the individual E.U. Member States. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the E.U.. Violation of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment. Payments made to physicians in certain E.U. Member States also must be publicly disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician&#8217;s employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual E.U. Member States. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment. 

Data Privacy and Protection 

Data protection laws and regulations have been adopted at E.U. level with related implementing laws in individual E.U. Member States which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the E.U. Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the E.U. Member States, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. 

Furthermore, there is a growth towards the public disclosure of clinical trial data in the E.U. which also adds to the complexity of processing health data from clinical trials. Such public disclosure obligations are provided in the new E.U. Clinical Trials Regulation, EMA disclosure initiatives, and voluntary commitments by industry. Data protection authorities from the different E.U. Member States may interpret the E.U. Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the E.U., and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. Failing to comply with these laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results. Apart from exceptional circumstances, the E.U. Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area, that are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection, including the U.S. 

Consequences of Non-Compliance 

Failure to comply with applicable requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as clinical holds, refusal of regulatory authorities to approve or authorize pending product applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution. 

Environmental Regulation 

In connection with our research and development activities, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies, both internationally and domestically, governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes and employee safety and health matters. Although we believe that we have complied with these laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to take any significant action to correct any noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including, but not limited to, certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with applicable law and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such 

liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. See the risk factor, &#8220; We may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials .&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the risks and uncertainties we face due to the use of hazardous materials. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 149 individuals in the U.S., including two employees at our majority-owned subsidiary Aequus Biopharma, Inc., or Aequus, and six in Europe. Our U.S. and U.K. employees do not have a collective bargaining agreement. One employee in Italy is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with our employees are good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Washington in 1991. In May 2014, we changed our name from &#8220;Cell Therapeutics, Inc.&#8221; to &#8220;CTI BioPharma Corp.&#8221; We completed our initial public offering in 1997 and our shares are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market in the U.S. and the MTA, in Italy, where our symbol is CTIC. Our principal executive offices are located at 3101 Western Avenue, Suite 600, Seattle, Washington 98121. Our telephone number is (206) 282-7100. Our website address is http://www.ctibiopharma.com . We may post information that is important to investors on our website. However, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. &#8220;CTI BioPharma&#8221;, &#8220;PIXUVRI&#8221; and &#8220;Opaxio&#8221; are our proprietary marks. All other product names, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after each is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

In addition, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding registrants, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. 

