 Item 1. Business 

The following Business Section contains forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks, uncertainties and other factors including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this report, &#8220;Cyclacel,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

General 

Cyclacel is a pioneer company in the field of cell cycle biology with a vision to improve patient healthcare with orally available innovative medicines. Our goal is to develop and commercialize small molecule drugs that target the various phases of cell cycle control for the treatment of cancer and other serious diseases, particularly those of high unmet medical need. 

Our strategy is to build a diversified biopharmaceutical business focused in hematology and oncology based on a development pipeline of novel drug candidates. Substantially all efforts of the Company to date have been devoted to performing research and development, conducting clinical trials, developing and acquiring intellectual property, raising capital and recruiting and training personnel. 

Drug Candidates 

The cell cycle, the biological process by which cells propagate and divide, lies at the heart of cancer. In normal cells, the cell cycle is controlled by a complex series of signaling pathways by which a cell grows, replicates its DNA and divides. This process also includes mechanisms to ensure errors are corrected, and if not, the cells commit suicide or apoptose. In cancer, as a result of genetic mutations, this regulatory process malfunctions, resulting in uncontrolled cell proliferation. 

We have generated several families of anticancer drugs that act on the cell cycle including sapacitabine, seliciclib and CYC065. We believe that these drug candidates are differentiated in that they are orally-available and interact with unique target profiles and mechanisms and have the potential to treat multiple cancer indications. 

Our lead candidate, sapacitabine, is a novel, orally-available nucleoside analog. A number of nucleoside drugs, such as gemcitabine and cytarabine, also known as Ara-C, both generic drugs, are in wide use as conventional chemotherapies. Both sapacitabine and its major metabolite, CNDAC, have demonstrated potent anti-tumor activity in both blood and solid tumors in preclinical studies. In a liver metastatic mouse model, sapacitabine was shown to be superior to gemcitabine and fluorouracil, or 5-FU, two widely used nucleoside analogs, in delaying the onset and growth of liver metastasis. We hold the worldwide rights to commercialize sapacitabine, except for Japan, for which Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., or Daiichi Sankyo, has a right of first negotiation. 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, have designated sapacitabine as an orphan drug for the treatment of both Acute Myeloid Leukemia, or AML, and Myelodysplastic Syndromes, or MDS. 

We are currently evaluating sapacitabine in a Phase 3 study being conducted under a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, with the FDA for the front-line treatment of AML in the elderly. We are also exploring sapacitabine in a Phase 2 study for MDS and in a Phase 1/2 study in solid tumors in combination with seliciclib, another of our drug candidates. Sapacitabine has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 patients to date. 

In our second development program we are evaluating cyclin dependent kinase, or CDK, inhibitors. CDKs are involved in cancer cell growth, survival, metastatic spread and DNA damage repair. Seliciclib, our lead CDK inhibitor, is an oral, highly selective inhibitor of CDK2/9 enzymes that are central to the process of cell division and cell cycle control. To date, seliciclib has been evaluated in over 450 patients with various cancers, including non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, and nasopharyngeal cancer, or NPC, and has shown signs of anticancer activity. We have retained worldwide rights to commercialize seliciclib. 

Seliciclib has completed a Phase 2b randomized study in third-line NSCLC and is currently undergoing a study in solid tumors in combination with our own drug candidate, sapacitabine. Seliciclib is also being evaluated in Investigator Sponsored Trials, or ISTs, to treat Cushing&#8217;s disease and rheumatoid arthritis, and in a license and supply agreement for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. 

Our second generation CDK inhibitor, CYC065, is a highly selective inhibitor of CDKs targeting CDK2/9 enzymes with potential utility in both hematological malignancies and solid tumors. CYC065 has increased anti-proliferative potency and improved pharmaceutical properties compared to seliciclib. CYC065 is in an on-going first-in-human, Phase 1 trial to assess its safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in advanced cancer patients. CYC065 was selected from the Company&#8217;s discovery program in Dundee, Scotland and its development was supported in part by a $1.9 million grant from the Biomedical Catalyst of the United Kingdom government. 

In addition to these development programs, in our polo-like kinase, or PLK, inhibitor program, we have discovered CYC140 and other potent and selective small molecule inhibitors of PLK1, a kinase that is active during cell division and which targets the mitotic phase of the cell cycle. PLK was discovered by Professor David Glover, our Chief Scientist. We have received a grant award of approximately $3.5 million from the Biomedical Catalyst of the United Kingdom government to complete IND-directed preclinical development of CYC140. 

We currently retain virtually all marketing rights worldwide to the compounds associated with our drug programs. To optimize our commercial return, we intend to enter into selected partnering arrangements. 

Lead Development Programs 

Our pipeline and expertise in cell cycle biology 

Our core area of expertise is in cell cycle biology and we focus primarily on the development of orally-available anticancer agents that target the cell cycle with the aim of slowing the progression or shrinking the size of tumors, and enhancing the quality of life and improving survival rates of cancer patients. 

We have retained rights to commercialize our clinical development candidates and our business strategy is to enter into selective partnership arrangements with these programs. 

Oncology Development Programs 

We have generated several families of anticancer drugs that act on the cell cycle, including nucleoside analogs, CDK inhibitors, PLK inhibitors and Aurora Kinase/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, or AK/VEGFR inhibitors. In our development programs, we have been an early adopter of biomarker analysis to help evaluate whether our drug candidates are having their intended effect through their assumed mechanisms at different doses and schedules. Biomarkers are proteins or other biological substances or effects whose presence in patient samples can serve as an indicator or marker of diseases, or may highlight patients more likely to respond to a particular treatment. Biomarker data from early clinical trials may also enable us to design subsequent trials more efficiently and to monitor patient compliance with trial protocols. For example, we reported that sapacitabine efficacy is enhanced in tumor cells that are defective in homologous recombination DNA repair and that sapacitabine treatment increased a DNA damage marker in patient samples. We believe that in the longer term biomarkers may allow the selection of patients more likely to respond to our drugs in clinical trials and increase the benefit to patients. 

Although a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are currently attempting to develop nucleoside analogs, CDK inhibitors and PLK inhibitors, we believe that our drug candidates are differentiated in that they are orally-available and demonstrate unique target profiles and mechanisms. For example, we believe that our sapacitabine is the only orally-available nucleoside analog presently being tested in a Phase 3 trial in previously untreated AML and in Phase 2 for high risk MDS. 

Research and Development Pipeline 

The following table summarizes our currently active clinical and preclinical programs. 

Program 

&#8203; &#8203; Indication 

&#8203; &#8203; Development Status 

&#8203; &#8203; Target 

&#8203; &#8203; Cell Cycle Mechanism 

&#8203; Oncology &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Sapacitabine, CYC682 &#8203; &#8203; Elderly AML 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 3 registration study on-going. Enrollment completed 

&#8203; &#8203; DNA polymerase 

&#8203; &#8203; G2 and S phase 

&#8203; Sapacitabine, CYC682 &#8203; &#8203; MDS 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 2 randomized trial Enrollment completed

&#8203; &#8203; DNA polymerase 

&#8203; &#8203; G2 and S phase 

&#8203; Seliciclib + Sapacitabine

&#8203; &#8203; Cancer 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 1 trial on-going 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; CYC065 CDK inhibitor 

&#8203; &#8203; Cancer 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 1 first-in-human solid tumors and lymphoma; on-going

&#8203; &#8203; CDK2/9 

&#8203; &#8203; G1/S checkpoint and others 

&#8203; CYC140 PLK inhibitor &#8203; &#8203; Cancer 

&#8203; &#8203; Preclinical 

&#8203; &#8203; PLK1 

&#8203; &#8203; G2/M checkpoint 

&#8203; Investigator Sponsored Trials &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Seliciclib, CYC202 &#8203; &#8203; Cushing&#8217;s disease and rheumatoid arthritis 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 2 trial 

&#8203; &#8203; CDK2/9 

&#8203; &#8203; G1/S checkpoint and others 

&#8203; Licensing &#38; Collaboration &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Seliciclib, CYC202 &#8203; &#8203; Cancer 

&#8203; &#8203; Phase 2 trial

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Market opportunity in hematology 

Cancer remains a major life-threatening disease in the United States with approximately 3.2 million people afflicted by cancer and approximately 1.4 million new cases of cancer diagnosed every year. 

AML is a cancer of the blood cells that progresses rapidly and if not treated, could be fatal within a few months. AML is generally a disease of older people and is uncommon before the age of 40. The average age of a patient with AML is about 67 years. According to The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results, or SEER, program of the National Cancer Institute, or NCI, the incidence rate of AML is approximately 20,000 in the United States. It is estimated that European incidence is approximately 22,000. A review of The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center&#8217;s historical experience with front-line intensive induction chemotherapy for AML patients aged 70 years or older demonstrated that while 45% achieved a complete remission, median overall survival was only 4.6 months and was associated with a 4-week death rate of 26% and an 8-week death rate of 36%. 

MDS is a family of clonal myeloid neoplasms, or malignancies of the blood, caused by the failure of blood cells in the bone marrow to develop into mature cells. Patients with MDS typically suffer from bone marrow failure and cytopenias, or reduced counts of platelets, red and white blood cells. The exact incidence and prevalence of MDS are unknown because it can go undiagnosed and a national survey canvassing both hospitals and office practitioners has not been completed. Some estimates place MDS incidence at 15,000 to 20,000 new cases each year in the United States alone with some authors estimating incidence as high as 46,000. Literature suggests that there is a rising incidence of MDS as the age of the population increases with the majority of patients aged above 60 years. Patients currently receive hypomethylating agents as first-line treatment. There is no approved therapy for second-line treatment.

Sapacitabine 

Sapacitabine, previously known as CYC682, is an orally-available nucleoside analog. Both sapacitabine and CNDAC, its major metabolite, have demonstrated potent anti-tumor activity in preclinical studies. Sapacitabine is an orally-available prodrug of CNDAC, which is a novel nucleoside analog, or a compound with a structure similar to a nucleoside. A prodrug is a compound that has a therapeutic effect after it is metabolized within the body. CNDAC has a significantly longer residence time in the blood when it is produced in the body through metabolism of sapacitabine than when it is given directly. Sapacitabine acts through a novel mechanism whereby the compound interferes with DNA synthesis through the incorporation of CNDAC into DNA during replication or repair, triggering a beta-elimination reaction and leading to the formation of single-strand DNA breaks, or SSBs. During subsequent rounds of replication, SSBs are converted to double-strand breaks, or DSBs; these can be repaired by the homologous recombination repair, or HRR, pathway, or, if unrepaired, result in cell death. 

We are currently exploring sapacitabine in both hematological cancers and solid tumors. Approximately 1,000 patients have received sapacitabine in Phase 1, 2 and 3 studies. 

Hematological Cancers 

SEAMLESS, randomized Phase 3, pivotal trial of sapacitabine in elderly patients with AML 

The SEAMLESS study is being conducted under an SPA agreement that Cyclacel reached with the FDA. 

The study is chaired by Hagop M. Kantarjian, M.D., Chairman and Professor, Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. SEAMLESS is a multicenter, randomized, Phase 3 study of sapacitabine as a front-line treatment in approximately 485 elderly patients aged 70 years or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not candidates for or have refused intensive induction chemotherapy. In SEAMLESS an investigational arm of oral sapacitabine administered in alternating cycles with intravenous decitabine is compared with a control arm of intravenous decitabine administered alone. The primary efficacy endpoint is overall survival. SEAMLESS completed enrollment in December 2014 with approximately 110 centers participating from the United States and Europe. Also in December 2014, the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, conducted a planned interim analysis for futility after 247 events, or patient deaths, and the final safety review of 470 randomized patients. The DSMB found no safety concerns. However, the planned futility boundary has been crossed and the DSMB determined that, based on available interim data, it would be unlikely for the study to reach statistically significant improvement in survival. The DSMB saw no reasons why patients should discontinue treatment on their assigned arm and recommended that recruited patients stay on treatment. 

The interim analysis for futility performed in December 2014 was primarily driven by the events within the first 6 months of patients entering into the trial. Of 247 events in SEAMLESS, 173 (70%) have occurred in the first 6 months. This means that the survival curves beyond 6 months are poorly estimated at the time of the analysis. Furthermore, follow up of European patients at December 2014 is significantly shorter than that of U.S. patients as the study opened for European accrual in April 2014. It is important to have complete follow up of all patients to ensure that a potential treatment effect beyond 6 months is not missed. 

In accordance with the DSMB&#8217;s recommendations, we continue to follow-up patients as per the study protocol until the prespecified 424 events have been observed. This is estimated to occur in the first half of 2016. Approximately 4% of the prespecified events remain to be observed as of March 25, 2016. 

In parallel to the follow-up of enrolled patients we have submitted, and have received validation of, a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, to the EMA. The EMA requires sponsors to agree to a PIP before a marketing authorization application, or MAA, can be accepted, and because the lead times can be long, we submitted the PIP ahead of any MAA submission. Depending on the final data, we may meet with regulatory authorities in Europe and the United States to discuss registration submissions for sapacitabine for the AML indication. 

Pilot/Lead-in study of sapacitabine in elderly patients with AML 

Results from a single-arm, multicenter, Phase 1/2 clinical trial examining the safety and efficacy of oral sapacitabine administered sequentially with intravenous decitabine, the same regimen as in the 

investigational arm of SEAMLESS, were reported during a poster session at the 2012 American Society of Hematology, or ASH, Annual Meeting. Forty-six patients were treated with alternating cycles of sapacitabine and decitabine. Median age was 77 years (range 70-90). Thirty-three patients (72%) were 75 years or older. Median overall survival was 238 days, or approximately 8 months. The number of patients still alive at 3 months was 38 (83%), at 6 months 30 (65%), at 12 months 16 (35%) and at 18 months 12 (26%). Sixteen patients (35%) survived 1 year or longer. Among 33 patients who were 75 years or older, median overall survival was 263 days, or approximately 9 months, and one-year survival was 36%. Nineteen patients (41%) responded with 10 complete responses (CRs), 4 partial responses (PRs) and 5 major hematological improvements (HIs). Median time to response was 2 cycles, i.e., one cycle of decitabine and one cycle of sapacitabine (range 1-10). Twenty-seven patients (59%) received 5 or more cycles of treatment. Two dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) were observed (lung infection/sepsis, typhlitis). Thirty-day mortality from all causes was 4%. Sixty-day mortality from all causes was 13% with one death from typhlitis considered to be possibly related to decitabine by investigator assessment. 

Phase 2 randomized study of sapacitabine in patients with previously untreated or first relapse AML 

SEAMLESS builds on promising one year survival observed in elderly patients with AML enrolled in a Phase 2 study of single agent sapacitabine. In December 2007, we initiated a multicenter, randomized Phase 2 clinical trial of oral sapacitabine in 60 elderly patients with AML aged 70 years or older who were previously untreated or in first relapse. The Phase 2 study, led by Dr. Kantarjian, had a primary endpoint of one year survival and randomized patients to one of three dosing schedules of sapacitabine. Secondary objectives were to assess complete remission, or CR, partial remission, or PR, duration of CR or CRp, or major hematological improvement and their corresponding durations, transfusion requirements, number of hospitalized days and safety. The study used a selection design with the objective of identifying a dosing schedule among three different arms, A. 200 mg twice daily for seven days every 3-4 weeks, B. 300 mg twice daily for seven days every 3-4 weeks, and C. 400 mg twice daily for three days per week for two weeks every 3-4 weeks, which would produce a better one year survival rate in the event that all three dosing schedules were active. 

In November 2012, the results from the Phase 2 study were published in The Lancet Oncology, demonstrating the safety and efficacy of sapacitabine in this patient population. Between December 27, 2007 and April 21, 2009, a total of 105 patients were enrolled and treated in the Phase 2 study. Their median age was 77 years with a range of 70-91 years. The group was comprised of a randomized cohort of 60 patients and an expanded, non-randomly assigned cohort enrolling a further 45 patients. Of the 105 patients, 86 were previously untreated and 19 in first relapse. Approximately 50% of patients had AML de novo and 50% had AML preceded by antecedent hematological disorder, or AHD, such as MDS or myeloproliferative disease, or treatment-related AML. All but one enrolled patients had intermediate or unfavorable cytogenetics. The randomized cohort of patients was assigned to one of three dosing schedules: 200 mg twice a day for 7 days (Arm A); 300 mg twice a day for 7 days (Arm B); and 400 mg twice a day for 3 days each week for 2 weeks (Arm C). All schedules were given in 28 day cycles. The 3-day dosing schedule in Arm C was selected for further clinical development in elderly patients with untreated AML. This decision was based on the schedule&#8217;s overall efficacy profile, which included a one-year survival rate of 30%, median overall survival of 213 days and durable complete remissions, or CRs, in 25% of patients. The median overall survival of patients from all arms who achieved CR was 525 days (95% C.I. 192-798). The most common grade 3-4 adverse events regardless of causality were anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, febrile neutropenia and pneumonia. Seven deaths were thought to be probably or possibly related to sapacitabine treatment. 

Randomized Phase 2 clinical trial in older patients with MDS as a second-line treatment 

In September 2008, we advanced sapacitabine into an open-label, multi-center, randomized Phase 2 trial as a second-line treatment in patients aged 60 or older with intermediate-2 or high-risk MDS after treatment failure of front-line hypomethylating agents, such as azacitidine and/or decitabine. The Phase 2 study randomized 63 patients aged 60 years or older with MDS of intermediate-2 (n=52) or high-risk (n=11) classification by the International Prognostic Scoring System, or IPSS, at study entry to receive sapacitabine every 4 weeks on one of 3 dosing schedules: 200 mg twice daily for 7 days (Arm G), 300 mg once daily for 7 days (Arm H), or 100 mg once daily for 5 days per week for 2 weeks (Arm I). The primary 

efficacy endpoint of the study is one-year survival with the objective of identifying a dosing schedule that produces a better one-year survival rate in the event that all three dosing schedules are active. All patients in the study progressed after receiving azacitidine, decitabine, or both agents. Secondary objectives are to assess the number of patients who have achieved CR or CRp, PR, hematological improvement and their corresponding durations, transfusion requirements, number of hospitalization days and safety. 

In December 2013 at the 2013 ASH Meeting and Exposition, we announced primary endpoint data from the ongoing, open-label, multicenter, randomized Phase 2 trial of oral sapacitabine capsules in older patients with myelodysplastic syndromes after treatment failure of front-line hypomethylating agents, such as azacitidine and/or decitabine. The median overall survival for each arm was approximately 9.7 months for Arm G, 9.7 months for Arm H, and 7.6 months for Arm I. The median overall survival for all three arms was approximately 8.6 months. One-year survival was 38% for Arm G, 24% for Arm H, and 33% for Arm I. Nine patients had responded (2 CRs, 2 CRp, and 5 major HIs): 19% for Arm G, 10% for Arm H and 14% for Arm I and the time to response was one to four cycles. Median number of cycles was three with a range of one to over 23 and 30 patients received four or more cycles. 

Additionally, 23 patients achieved stable disease lasting longer than 16 weeks. The 30 day mortality from all causes was 5% in each of the three arms and ten patients, or approximately 16%, were still alive. 

We have recently completed enrollment of a patient cohort in an additional part of the MDS Phase 2 study in order to evaluate better dosing regimens. We will follow-up these additional Phase 2 patients until mature survival data become available. In parallel, we anticipate initiating a Phase 1/2 trial of sapacitabine in combination with other agents to determine safety and tolerability. We would expect to plan a Phase 2 randomized controlled trial, or RCT, of sapacitabine in combination with other agents following a review of all relevant clinical data with mature follow-up. 

Median overall survival after treatment failure of front-line hypomethylating agents, such as azacitidine and/or decitabine, for patients with intermediate-2 or high- risk disease per IPSS, is reported in the literature to range between 5.9 and 4.3 months. Patients with high-risk IPSS scores also have a high probability of experiencing transformation of their MDS into AML, an aggressive form of blood cancer with typically poor survival. 

Orphan Designation 

European Union 

During May 2008, we received designation from the EMA for sapacitabine as an orphan medicine in two separate indications: AML and MDS. The EMA&#8217;s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, or COMP, adopted a positive opinion on our application to designate sapacitabine as an orphan medicinal product for the indications of AML and MDS. The objective of European orphan medicines legislation is to stimulate research and development of medicinal products for rare diseases by providing incentives to industry. An orphan designation in the European Union confers a range of benefits to sponsor companies including market exclusivity for a period of 10 years, EMA scientific advice on protocol development, direct access to the centralized procedure for review of marketing authorizations, EMA fee reductions and eligibility for grant support from European agencies. 

United States 

In June 2010, we announced that the FDA granted orphan drug designation to our sapacitabine product candidate for the treatment of both AML and MDS. An orphan designation in the United States confers a range of benefits to sponsor companies, including market exclusivity for a period of seven years from the date of drug approval, the opportunity to apply for grant funding from the United States government to defray costs of clinical trial expenses, tax credits for clinical research expenses and a potential waiver of the FDA&#8217;s application user fee. Orphan status is granted by the FDA to promote the development of new drug therapies for the treatment of diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. 

Cyclin Dependent Kinase Inhibitor program 

Cyclin Dependent Kinase Inhibitors, or CDKs, are enzymes that are central to the process of cell division and cell cycle control and play pivotal roles in cancer cell growth, survival and DNA damage repair. Inhibition of CDKs 2 and 9 may also overcome aberrant cell cycle control in certain non-malignant diseases of proliferation. 

Seliciclib 

Seliciclib, is a novel, orally-available, CDK2/7/9 inhibitor which has a target profile differentiated from the published target profile of other CDK inhibitors. Its selectivity is differentiated by recent publications by independent investigators which showed that seliciclib (i) is more active against NSCLC cells with K-Ras or N-Ras mutations than those with wild type Ras and (ii) overcomes resistance to letrozole in breast cancer cells caused by a particular form of cyclin E in complex with CDK2. Preclinical studies have shown that the drug works by inducing cell apoptosis, or cell suicide, in multiple phases of the cell cycle. To date, seliciclib has been evaluated in over 450 patients in several Phase 1 and 2 studies, including studies in NSCLC and NPC, and has shown signs of anti-cancer activity. We have retained worldwide rights to commercialize seliciclib. 

Phase 1/2 clinical trial of seliciclib and sapacitabine in patients with advanced cancers 

In an ongoing Phase 1, single-arm, dose escalation study, sapacitabine and seliciclib are administered sequentially in patients with incurable advanced solid tumors unresponsive to conventional treatment or for which no effective therapy exists. Sapacitabine is dosed twice daily for 7 days (Day 1-7) and seliciclib twice daily for 3 days (Day 8-11) for three week cycles. The primary objective of the study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, and recommended Phase 2 dosing schedule of sapacitabine and seliciclib administered sequentially. The secondary objective is to evaluate the antitumor activity of sequential treatment and to explore the pharmacodynamic effect of this treatment in skin and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The study is being conducted at Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and the principal investigator is Geoffrey I. Shapiro, MD with participation from other Harvard Medical School hospitals. 

At the 2013 American Society of Cancer Research Annual Meeting Dr Shapiro reported that of 38 patients with incurable solid tumors and adequate organ function enrolled in the Phase 1 study, 16 were BRCA mutation positive. Four patients with BRCA-deficient pancreatic, breast or ovarian cancers had confirmed partial responses to the drug regimen. Based on available follow-up to date, three patients experienced durable partial responses, with a breast cancer patient receiving treatment over 234 weeks or 78 three-week cycles which is on-going. Researchers observed stable disease of 12 weeks or more in eight additional patients, including two BRCA positive patients with ovarian and breast cancers and whose stable disease lasted 64 and 21 weeks, respectively. The maximum tolerated doses were 50 mg sapacitabine twice daily and 1,200 mg seliciclib twice daily. Dose-limiting toxicities included reversible transaminase elevations and neutropenia. Adverse events were mild to moderate in intensity. Results of skin biopsies after treatment showed a 2.3-fold increase in DNA damage induced by sapacitabine, as measured by gamma-H2AX immunohistochemistry. Additional DNA damage occurred after treatment with seliciclib with a 0.58-fold further increase in gamma-H2AX staining. 

As of December 2015, approximately 60 patients with various cancers have been enrolled, of which approximately two-thirds are BRCA positive. 

Based on encouraging results from the initial patients and investigator interest the study has been expanded to evaluate an additional 20 breast cancer patients all of whom are required to test positive for BRCA in baseline biopsies. Patients will also undergo whole exome sequencing with the objective of further characterizing the genetic profiles of their tumors.

BRCA1 and BRCA2, or breast cancer susceptibility genes, are tumor suppressor genes that help ensure the stability of DNA, the cell&#8217;s genetic material, and help prevent uncontrolled cell growth. Genetic testing for BRCA-status is routinely available. BRCA mutation has been linked to predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer. According to the US National Cancer Institute, during her life time a woman has a 60% chance of developing breast cancer and 15-40% chance of developing ovarian cancer if she inherits a harmful BRCA mutation. These risks are 5 times and over 10 times more likely than for women without the mutation, respectively. 

CYC065 

CYC065 is a highly-selective, second generation inhibitor of CDK2 and CDK9 that causes apoptotic death of cancer cells at sub-micromolar concentrations and is bioavailable via oral and intravenous routes. Antitumor efficacy has been achieved in vivo with once a day oral dosing at well tolerated doses. Evidence from published preclinical studies show that CYC065 may benefit patients with adult and pediatric hematological malignancies, including certain AML, Acute Lymphocytic Leukemias, or ALL, Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemias, or CLL, Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma, or DLBCL, Multiple Myelomas or MM, and certain solid tumors, including breast and uterine cancers. 

CYC065 is in an on-going, first-in-human, Phase 1 trial to assess its safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in solid tumor and lymphoma patients. The trial is being conducted at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and the principal investigator Dr Geoffrey I. Shapiro, M.D. CYC065 was selected from the Company&#8217;s drug discovery program in Dundee, Scotland and its development was supported in part by a grant award of approximately $1.9 million from the Biomedical Catalyst of the United Kingdom government. 

CYC065 is mechanistically similar but has much higher dose potency, in vitro and in vivo, improved metabolic stability and longer patent protection than seliciclib, Cyclacel&#8217;s first generation CDK2/9 inhibitor. Translational biology data support development of CYC065 as a stratified medicine for solid and liquid tumors. CYC065 has been shown to reverse drug resistance associated with the addiction of cancer cells to cyclin E, a partner protein of CDK2, and inhibit CDK9-dependent oncogenic and leukemogenic pathways, including MYC and multilineage leukemia rearrangements, or MLL-r. Like seliciclib, CYC065 also represses the MCL-1-mediated survival pathway in cancer cells, leading to rapid induction of apoptosis in MCL-1 dependent cancer cells. 

In 2011, independent investigators published preclinical evidence that CYC065 as a single-agent can induce tumor growth delay in HER2-positive breast cancer cells addicted to cyclin E and resistant to trastuzumab, or Herceptin &#174; , while administration of CYC065 in combination with trastuzumab resulted in regression or sustained tumor growth inhibition. 

Data presented at the 2015 Annual Meeting of the American Association of Cancer Research, or AACR-NCI-EORTC International Conference on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics demonstrated the mechanistic rationale for clinical development of CYC065 in oncology. Data showed that MLL gene status and levels of Bcl-2 family proteins correlated with sensitivity of AML cell lines to CYC065. Combination studies revealed the potential to combine CYC065 with available and experimental leukemia therapies, including cytarabine and Bcl-2 inhibitors, such as venetoclax. Potent anticancer activity of CYC065 was demonstrated in vivo in AML xenograft models resulting in over 90% inhibition of tumor growth. The potent in vitro and in vivo anti-cancer activity, opportunity for patient stratification and the ability to combine with anti-leukemic agents suggest that CYC065 may have therapeutic potential in AML. 

Additionally data presented at the 2015 San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium demonstrated in particular the mechanistic rationale for clinical development of CYC065 in basal-like triple negative breast cancer, or TNBC, a cancer with poor prognosis frequently associated with BRCA mutations. Molecular characteristics of TNBC include amplification or overexpression of Cyclin E, the partner protein of CDK2, and MYC. CYC065 directs a pro-apoptotic mechanism in breast cancer cell lines, which includes transcriptional down regulation of key pro-survival and oncogenic regulators, including MCL-1 and MYC. 

CYC065 was shown to rapidly induce cell death in breast cancer cell lines, while transiently inducing G1 cell cycle arrest in non-malignant breast lines. CYC065&#8217;s potent anticancer activity has been confirmed 

in breast cancer xenograft animal models. Like seliciclib, CYC065 effectively combined with sapacitabine in breast cancer cell lines. 

In 2015, independent investigators presented data demonstrating that CYC065 prolongs survival in MYCN -addicted neuroblastoma models. The study evaluated the ability of CYC065 to inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis of neuroblastoma cells in vitro and in vivo . In vivo efficacy was evaluated in subcutaneous xenograft models of both MYCN -amplified and non-amplified neuroblastoma cells and the Th- MYCN genetically-engineered mouse model of neuroblastoma. The study showed that neuroblastoma cell lines with MYCN amplification and high MYCN expression levels were sensitive to the CYC065 inhibitor. CYC065 also depleted MYCN protein in a time- and dose-dependent manner, blocked neuroblastoma cell proliferation and induced apoptosis which resulted in significantly reduced tumor burdens and prolonged survival in MYCN -addicted neuroblastoma models in vivo. 

Similar to palbociclib, a drug which targets CDK4/6 and the first CDK inhibitor to be recently approved by the FDA, we anticipate that CYC065 will likely be best used in combination with available anti-cancer agents. Depending on the data from the ongoing Phase 1 study, we are also interested in evaluating CYC065 in patients with hematological malignancies in light of profound signals of activity observed in preclinical studies. 

PLK inhibitors 

In our PLK inhibitor program we have discovered potent and selective small molecule inhibitors of PLK1, a kinase active during cell division, which target the mitotic phase of the cell cycle. At the 2012 Annual Meeting of the AACR, we reported that one of these compounds, CYC140, was selected for further preclinical development and showed potent activity and selectivity against a panel of esophageal cancer cell lines. Short drug exposure times demonstrated differential sensitivity between cancerous esophageal cells versus control, outlining the potential broad therapeutic index for CYC140 in treating esophageal cancers. PLK was discovered by Professor David Glover, our Chief Scientist. We have received a grant award of approximately $3.5 million from the Biomedical Catalyst of the United Kingdom government to complete IND-directed preclinical development of CYC140. 

Aurora kinase inhibitors 

Aurora kinases, or AK, are a family of serine/threonine protein kinases discovered by Professor David Glover, our Chief Scientist, which are only expressed in actively dividing cells and are crucial for the process of cell division, or mitosis. These proteins, which have been found to be over-expressed in many types of cancer, have generated significant scientific and commercial interest as cancer drug targets. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, or VEGFR2 is a receptor protein that plays a key regulatory role in the angiogenesis pathway, or blood vessel formation. VEGFR is targeted by approved drugs such as bevacizumab and sorafenib indicated for the treatment of several solid cancers, such as breast, colorectal, kidney, liver and lung. 

At the Annual Meeting of the AACR 2012 we reported that collaborators tested the activity of CYC3, our novel Aurora Kinase A specific inhibitor, in pancreatic cancer cell lines and found that CYC3 acted synergistically against pancreatic cancer cell lines in combination with paclitaxel at a 10-fold lower dose resulting in comparable anti-proliferative activity to standard paclitaxel dosing. The collaborators reported that the combination merits further investigation and has the potential for improved therapeutic index in vivo. We have completed a multicenter Phase 1 pharmacologic clinical trial of CYC116, an orally-available inhibitor of Aurora kinase A and B and VEGFR2, in patients with advanced solid tumors, but have no current plans to progress the program. We have retained worldwide rights to commercialize CYC116 and our other Aurora kinase inhibitors. 

Investigator-Sponsored Trials 

Preclinical results from several independent investigators suggest that cell cycle inhibitors, such as seliciclib and related molecules arrest the progress of the cell cycle and may have therapeutic benefit in the treatment of patients with autoimmune and inflammatory diseases as well as in diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell proliferation. Published data indicate potential benefit in glomerulonephritis, 

graft-versus-host disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, lupus nephritis, polycystic kidney disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Based on these data investigators have approached us to be provided with seliciclib so that they can evaluate it in various indications in clinical trials. 

In this regard, there are on-going investigator sponsored trials, or ISTs, evaluating seliciclib in endocrinologic and inflammatory indications in patients who have failed prior treatments. In an IST at Cedars-Sinai, Los Angeles, the first patients are being treated in an on-going Phase 2 trial to evaluate seliciclib as a potential therapy for Cushing&#8217;s disease caused by pituitary tumors. There are limited options for Cushing&#8217;s disease patients today. The investigator was awarded a grant from The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. In a European IST, seliciclib is being evaluated as a potential treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, where it may work for RA by targeting proliferating fibroblasts, a different type of approach than conventional RA therapies. This study is also being supported by an approximately $1.5 million grant from the United Kingdom&#8217;s Medical Research Council. 

Collaboration and Licensing Agreement 

On June 29, 2015, we announced the execution of a collaboration, licensing and supply agreement with ManRos Therapeutics SA, or ManRos, for the exclusive development and commercialization of our oral seliciclib capsules by ManRos as a treatment for cystic fibrosis, or CF. Among other terms of the agreement, ManRos licensed rights to our proprietary clinical data to enable clinical development of seliciclib for CF indications. The agreement provides for our supply of seliciclib investigational product for initial and later stage clinical trials of seliciclib in CF and technical assistance related to our know-how to facilitate these trials. We have received upfront payments and will receive milestone payments and tiered royalties if seliciclib is commercialized for the treatment of CF. 

As with all ISTs and the collaboration and licensing agreement, we do not control the timing or conduct of such studies and will report updates as the investigators may notify us from time to time. 

Business Strategy 

Our operating plan is to focus on the clinical development of sapacitabine, specifically in hematology and the on-going SEAMLESS trial, with selective investment in the advancement of other clinical studies or our other drug candidates. We currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $20.4 million at December 31, 2015 are sufficient through 2017. This is beyond the time of the data read-out of the SEAMLESS Phase 3 trial, estimated to occur in the first half of 2016, but not sufficient to complete development of other indications or product candidates or to commercialize any of the Company&#8217;s product candidates. 

Focus on the cell cycle and cancer 

Our core area of expertise is in cell cycle biology and our scientists include recognized leaders in this field. In addition, our senior management has extensive experience in research, preclinical and clinical development and sales and marketing. The novel, mechanism-targeted cell cycle drugs we are developing are designed to be highly selective in comparison to conventional chemotherapies, potentially inducing death in cancer cells while sparing most normal cells which may give rise to fewer side-effects. 

Thus, we believe that we are well placed to exploit the significant opportunities that this area offers for new drug discovery and development. In this regard, we believe that our sapacitabine is the only orally-available nucleoside analog presently being tested in a Phase 3 trial in previously untreated AML. 

Develop anticancer drug candidates in all phases of the cell cycle and multiple compounds for particular cell cycle targets 

Targeting a broad development program focused on multiple phases of the cell cycle allows us to minimize risk while maximizing the potential for success and also to develop products that are complementary to one another. 

Enter into partnering arrangements selectively, while developing our own sales and marketing capability 

We currently retain virtually all marketing rights to the compounds associated with our current clinical-stage drug programs. To optimize our commercial return, we intend to enter into selected partnering 

arrangements, and to leverage our sales and marketing capability by retaining co-promotion rights as appropriate. Historically, we have planned to develop compounds through the Phase 2 proof-of-efficacy stage before seeking a partner. We may enter into partnering arrangements earlier than Phase 2 proof-of-concept trials where appropriate or in connection with drug programs outside our core competency in oncology. 

Patents, Proprietary Technology and Collaborations 

We consider intellectual property rights to be vital and use a variety of methods to secure, protect and evaluate these rights. These include: 

&#8226; 

Ownership and enforcement of patent rights; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Patent applications covering our own inventions in fields that we consider important to our business strategy; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

License agreements with third parties granting us rights to patents in fields that are important to our business strategy; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Non-compete agreements with our key employees and consultants; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and others having access to our proprietary information; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Standard policies for the maintenance of laboratory notebooks to establish priority of our inventions; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Freedom to use studies from patent counsel; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Material transfer agreements; and 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Trademark protection. 

&#8203;

We give priority to obtaining substance of matter claims in the United States, the European Patent Office, or EPO, Japan and other important markets if such protection is available. We prefer substance of matter claims because they give us rights to the compounds themselves, and not merely a particular use. In addition to substance of matter claims, we seek coverage for solid state forms, polymorphic and crystalline forms, medical uses, combination therapies, specific regimens, pharmaceutical forms of our compounds and synthetic routes where available and appropriate. Claims covering combination therapies, specific regimens and pharmaceutical forms can be valuable because the therapeutic effect of pharmaceuticals used in the anticancer field is often enhanced when individual therapeutics are used in particular combinations or dosed in a certain way. The availability of protection in these areas can, however, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and combination claims are particularly difficult to obtain for many inventions. 

We own 20 patents granted in the United States, 10 granted by the EPO and 43 granted in other countries worldwide. In addition, we have a license to 51 patents granted in the US, by the EPO or worldwide. 

We own 7 patent applications pending in the United States, 10 before the EPO and 25 pending patent applications in other countries. 

No assurances can be given that patents will be issued with respect to the pending applications, nor that the claims will provide equivalent coverage in all jurisdictions. In addition to the pending patent applications referred to above that we own, there are 6 pending patent applications worldwide to which we have a license. 

Since publications in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain of being first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or the first to file those patent applications. Generally, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more, which increases the uncertainty we face. Moreover, the patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal 

and factual questions. As a result, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. To date, there has been no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications, if issued. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent and the commercial opportunity of the product. 

If patents are issued to others containing valid claims that cover our compounds or their manufacture or use or screening assays related thereto, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We are aware of several published patent applications, and understand that others may exist, that could support claims that, if granted and held valid, would cover various aspects of our developmental programs, including in some cases particular uses of our lead drug candidates, sapacitabine, seliciclib or other therapeutic candidates, or gene sequences, substances, processes and techniques that we use in the course of our research and development and manufacturing operations. 

In addition, we understand that other applications and patents exist relating to uses of sapacitabine and seliciclib that are not part of our current clinical programs for those compounds. Although we intend to continue to monitor the pending applications, it is not possible to predict whether these claims will ultimately be allowed or if they were allowed what their breadth would be. In addition, we may need to commence litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation would create substantial costs. In one case we have opposed a European patent relating to human aurora kinase and the patent has been finally revoked (no appeal was filed). We are also aware of a corresponding United States patent containing method of treatment claims for specific cancers using aurora kinase modulators which, if held valid, could potentially restrict the use of our aurora kinase inhibitors once clinical trials are completed. We are aware that other patents exist that claim substances, processes and techniques, which, if held valid, could potentially restrict the scope of our research, development or manufacturing operations. If competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology that we also claim, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine which invention has priority. These proceedings could result in substantial costs, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to seek licenses of the disputed rights from third parties or to cease using the technology, even a therapeutic product, if such licenses are unavailable or too expensive. 

Licenses 

Several of our programs are based on technology licensed from others. Our breach of an existing license or failure to obtain a license to technology required to develop, test and commercialize our products may seriously harm our business. 

Sapacitabine 

On September 10, 2003, we entered into a license agreement with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd. of Japan or Daiichi Sankyo with respect to patents and patent applications covering the sapacitabine compound. Daiichi Sankyo filed patent applications claiming sapacitabine and certain crystalline forms of sapacitabine and methods for its preparation and use which encompass our chosen commercial development form as well as related know-how and materials. The issued patents for the sapacitabine compound cover the United States, EPO, Japan and 19 other countries. These patents expired in the United States in 2014 and expired elsewhere in 2012. The issued patents for the crystalline forms cover the United States, EPO, Japan and thirteen other countries, with patents pending in one further country. These patents expire in 2022. It may be possible to extend the term of a patent in the United States, Europe or Japan for up to five years to the extent it covers the sapacitabine compound or its crystalline form upon regulatory approval of that compound in the United States, Europe or Japan, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such extension. 

Separately, we own an issued United States patent with granted claims to a specified method of administration of sapacitabine, adding to the existing composition of matter patents and supporting 

market exclusivity out to 2030. We also own patents issued in the United States or in Europe which claim methods of use of sapacitabine with hypomethylating agents, including decitabine, which is being tested as one of the arms of the SEAMLESS Phase 3 trial and with other anticancer drugs such as HDAC inhibitors. The license grants us the exclusive right to exploit and sublicense the sapacitabine compound and any other products covered by the patents and patent applications owned by Daiichi Sankyo. The license originally was subject to certain third party rights related to certain countries but the license has been extended and is now worldwide. The license agreement also grants us nonexclusive, sublicensed rights to CNDAC, both a precursor compound and initial metabolite of sapacitabine. 

We are under an obligation to use reasonable endeavors to develop a product and obtain regulatory approval to sell a product and we agreed to pay Daiichi Sankyo an up-front fee, reimbursement for Daiichi Sankyo&#8217;s enumerated expenses, milestone payments and royalties on a country-by-country basis. Under this agreement, $1.6 million was paid in April 2011, and further aggregate milestone payments totaling approximately $10.0 million could be payable subject to achievement of specific contractual milestones and our decision to continue with these projects. The up-front fee and certain past reimbursements have been paid. Royalties are payable in each country for the term of patent protection in the country or for ten years following the first commercial sale of licensed products in the country, whichever is later. Royalties are payable on net sales. Net sales are defined as the gross amount invoiced by us or our affiliates or licensees, less discounts, credits, taxes, shipping and bad debt losses. The agreement extends from its commencement date to the date on which no further amounts are owed under it. If we wish to appoint a third-party to develop or commercialize a sapacitabine-based product in Japan, within certain limitations, Daiichi Sankyo must be notified and given a right of first refusal to develop and/or commercialize in Japan. Effective July 11, 2011, the license was amended to irrevocably waive a termination right Daiichi Sankyo possessed under a provision of the agreement that required the Company to obtain regulatory approval to sell sapacitabine in at least one country by September 2011, and releases the Company from all claims and liability of any kind arising under such provision. The amendment further provides that the royalty fee due from us to Daiichi Sankyo on future net sales of sapacitabine be increased by a percentage between 1.25% and 1.50%, depending on the level of net sales of sapacitabine realized. In general, however, the license may be terminated by us for technical, scientific, efficacy, safety, or commercial reasons on six months&#8217; notice, or twelve months if after a launch of a sapacitabine-based product, or by either party for material default. 

Seliciclib 

We have entered into an agreement with Centre National de Recherche Scientifique, or CNRS, and Institut Curie that grants us worldwide rights under the patents jointly owned by CNRS, Institut Curie and the Czech Institute of Experimental Botany covering the seliciclib compound. The effective date of the agreement is February 1, 2002. The license grants exclusive rights in the fields of auto-immune diseases, cardiovascular diseases, dermatological diseases, infectious diseases, inflammatory diseases, and proliferative diseases, including cancer. Non-acute chronic diseases of the central nervous system, neurological diseases and diseases of the peripheral nervous system are specifically excluded. The license runs for the term of the patents in each country, or for ten years from the first commercial sale in each country, whichever is later. We paid an up-front fee and yearly payments and milestone payments until the patents covering the seliciclib compound, particular uses of the compound, and particular uses and derivatives of the compound were published as granted in either the United States or by EPO which occurred in 2001 and 2003, respectively. Milestones are also payable on the first commercialization of a product that consists of a new chemical entity that is covered by one of the licensed patents. 

We will be obligated to pay royalties based on our net sales of products covered by the patents. Royalties are payable on a country-by-country basis for the term of patent protection in each country or ten years from the first commercial sale of royalty-bearing products in that country, whichever is later. Royalties are payable on net sales. Net sales are defined as the gross amount invoiced by us or by our affiliates for the products, less normal trade discounts, credits for returned products, taxes and shipping charges. There is one royalty rate for products that are covered by valid licensed patent claims and a second, lower royalty rate for all other products that require a license under the licensed patents. We must also pay a portion of sublicensing revenues. Although the license permits us to grant sublicenses, we cannot assign the license without the consent of the CNRS and Institut Curie, which may not be unreasonably withheld. Under the agreement, assignment is defined to include many transactions of the type that we might wish to pursue, 

such as a merger or an acquisition by another company, as well as certain takeovers. This restriction may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities. Moreover, the occurrence of a majority takeover or a similar transaction that we may be unable to control could cause a default under the license agreement, which could lead to its termination. 

We have also purchased from the Czech Institute of Experimental Botany patents and patent applications covering the use of seliciclib and related compounds. The issued patents are in the United States, Australia and South Korea. Under the purchase agreement, we will pay royalties to the Czech Institute upon sales of products covered by those patents, but only if there are no royalties paid by us to CNRS for those sales under the license agreement with CNRS and Institut Curie covering seliciclib that is described above. 

Patents covering the seliciclib compound are owned jointly by the Czech Institute of Experimental Botany and CNRS. The patents have been issued in the United States, in Japan and Canada by the EPO and expire in 2016. It may be possible to extend the term of a patent in the United States, Europe or Japan for up to five years to the extent it covers the seliciclib compound upon regulatory approval of that compound in the United States or Europe, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such extension. Under agreements between CNRS and the Czech Institute of Experimental Botany, CNRS has the exclusive right to enter into license agreements covering the patents. The agreement reserves to both CNRS and the Czech Institute of Experimental Botany certain rights, including the right to patent improvements and to use the patents for internal research purposes. 

Manufacturing 

We have no in-house manufacturing capabilities and have no current plans to establish manufacturing facilities for significant clinical or commercial production. We have no direct experience in manufacturing commercial quantities of any of our products, and we currently lack the resources or capability to manufacture any of our products on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we are dependent on corporate partners, licensees or other third parties for the manufacturing of clinical and commercial scale quantities of all of our products. We believe that this strategy will enable us to direct operational and financial resources to the development of our product candidates rather than diverting resources to establishing a manufacturing infrastructure. 

Government Regulation 

The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and the EMA impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of drugs. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our drug candidates and commercialized drugs. 

For example, in the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and implementing regulations. The process required by the FDA before our drug candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#8226; 

completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical animal studies and formulation studies, all performed in accordance with the FDA&#8217;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate for each proposed indication; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA; 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practice requirements, or cGMPs, regulations; and 

&#8203;

&#8203;

&#8226; 

FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing, sale or shipment of the drug.

&#8203;

This testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our drug candidates will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Preclinical and other nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as studies to evaluate toxicity in animals. The results of preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted as part of an IND to the FDA. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the adequacy of the preclinical testing or the proposed conduct of the clinical trial, including concerns that human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Our submission of an IND, or those of our collaborators, may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. A separate submission to an existing IND must also be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development. Further, an independent institutional review board, or IRB, for each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that site and it must monitor the clinical trial until completed. The FDA or the clinical trial sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Clinical testing also must satisfy extensive Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, requirements, including those relating to informed consent. 

Clinical Trials 

For purposes of an NDA submission, clinical trials are typically conducted in the following three sequential phases, which may overlap:

&#8226; 

Phase 1 : The clinical trials are initially conducted in a limited population to test the drug candidate for safety, dose tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion in healthy humans or, on occasion, in patients, such as cancer patients. Phase 1 clinical trials can be designed to evaluate the impact of the drug candidate in combination with currently approved drugs. 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Phase 2: These clinical trials are generally conducted in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted indications and to determine dose tolerance and optimal dosage. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive Phase 3 clinical trial. 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Phase 3: These clinical trials are commonly referred to as pivotal clinical trials. If the Phase 2 clinical trials demonstrate that a dose range of the drug candidate is effective and has an acceptable safety profile, Phase 3 clinical trials are then undertaken in large patient populations to further evaluate dosage, to provide substantial evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded and diverse patient population at multiple, geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. 

&#8203;

In some cases, the FDA may condition approval of an NDA for a drug candidate on the sponsor&#8217;s agreement to conduct a Phase 4, which includes additional clinical trials to further assess the drug&#8217;s safety and effectiveness after NDA approval. 

New Drug Application 

The results of drug candidate development, nonclinical testing and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. Once the submission has been accepted for filing, by law the FDA has 180 days to review the application and respond to the applicant. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional 

clinical data or an additional pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we or our collaborators do. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw a drug approval if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems occur after the drug reaches the market. In addition, the FDA may require further testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved drugs which have been commercialized. The FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a drug based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications or indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. Further, if there are any modifications to a drug, including changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, we may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, which may require us to develop additional data or conduct additional nonclinical studies and clinical trials. 

Fast Track Designation 

The FDA&#8217;s fast track program is intended to facilitate the development and to expedite the review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition for which there is no effective treatment and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new drug candidate may request the FDA to designate the drug candidate for a specific indication as a fast track drug concurrent with or after the submission of the IND for the drug candidate. The FDA must determine if the drug candidate qualifies for fast track designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor&#8217;s request. 

If fast track designation is obtained, the FDA may initiate review of sections of an NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. 

Additionally, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

In some cases, a drug candidate may also qualify for one or more of the following programs: 

&#8226; 

Priority Review. Under FDA policies, a drug candidate is eligible for priority review, or review within a six-month time frame from the time a complete NDA is accepted for filing, if the drug candidate provides a significant improvement compared to marketed drugs in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. We cannot guarantee that any of our drug candidates will receive a priority review designation, or if a priority designation is received, that review or approval will be faster than conventional FDA procedures, or that the FDA will ultimately grant drug approval. 

&#8203;

&#8226; 

Accelerated Approval. Under the FDA&#8217;s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA is authorized to approve drug candidates that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses, and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon either a surrogate endpoint that is expected to predict a clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than patient survival. In clinical trials, surrogate endpoints are alternative measurements of the symptoms of a disease or condition that are substituted for measurements of observable clinical symptoms. A drug candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to validate the surrogate endpoint or confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or to validate a surrogate endpoint or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, will allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. In rare instances the FDA may grant accelerated approval of an NDA based on Phase 2 data and require confirmatory Phase 3 studies to be conducted after approval and/or as a condition of maintaining approval. We can give no assurance that any of our drugs will be reviewed under such procedures.

&#8203;

&#8203;

When appropriate, we and our collaborators may seek fast track designation or accelerated approval for our drug candidates. We cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates will obtain a fast track or accelerated approval designation, or the ultimate impact, if any, of the fast track or the accelerated approval process on the timing or likelihood of FDA approval of any of our drug candidates. 

Satisfaction of FDA regulations and requirements or similar requirements of state, local and the EMA typically takes several years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. Typically, if a drug candidate is intended to treat a chronic disease, as is the case with some of our drug candidates, safety and efficacy data must be gathered over an extended period of time. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of drug candidates for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. The FDA or EMA may not grant approvals for new indications for our drug candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Even if a drug candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug may result in restrictions on the drug or even complete withdrawal of the drug from the market. Delays in obtaining, or failures to obtain, regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates would harm our business. In addition, we cannot predict what adverse governmental regulations may arise from future United States or foreign governmental action. 

Special Protocol Assessment 

If a Phase 2 clinical trial is the subject of discussion at an end-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, a sponsor may be able to request a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, the purpose of which is to reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol design and analysis that will form the primary basis of an efficacy claim. If such an agreement is reached, it will be documented and made part of the administrative record, and it will be binding on the FDA and may not be changed unless the sponsor fails to follow the agreed-upon protocol, data supporting the request are found to be false or incomplete, or the FDA determines that a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of the drug was identified after the testing began. Even if an SPA is agreed to, approval of the NDA is not guaranteed because a final determination that an agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data in the NDA. 

Other regulatory requirements 

Any products manufactured or distributed by us or our collaborators pursuant to FDA or EMA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA or EMA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences associated with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA or EMA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA or EMA and certain state agencies for compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements, including cGMP, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements can subject a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action or possible civil penalties. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be able to comply with the cGMP regulations and other ongoing FDA or EMA regulatory requirements. If our present or future third-party manufacturers or suppliers are not able to comply with these requirements, the FDA or EMA may halt our clinical trials, require us to recall a product from distribution, or withdraw approval of that product. 

The FDA or EMA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the Internet. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA or EMA. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may prescribe approved drugs for uses that are not described in the drug&#8217;s labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA or EMA. Such off-label 

uses are common across certain medical specialties. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA or EMA generally does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA or EMA does, however, impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers&#8217; communications regarding off-label use. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are rapidly changing and highly competitive. We are seeking to develop and market drug candidates that will compete with other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Other companies are actively seeking to develop products that have disease targets similar to those we are pursuing. We face competition from many different sources, including commercial, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. In addition, competitors compete in the areas of recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses. 

A large number of drug candidates are in development for the treatment of leukemia and lymphomas, MDS, breast, lung, and nasopharyngeal cancer. Several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have nucleoside analogs or other products on the market or in clinical trials which may be competitive to sapacitabine in both hematology and oncology indications. These include AbbVie, Astra-Zeneca, Baxter/&#8203;Onconova, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS/Innate, Celator, Celgene, CTI Biopharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Eisai, Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson &#38; Johnson, MEI Pharma, Otsuka, Pfizer, Sanofi, Synta Pharmaceuticals, Sunesis and Teva. Several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have CDK inhibitors in clinical trials including Bayer, Lilly, Merck, Nerviano Medical Sciences/Tiziana Life Sciences, Novartis, Otsuka-Astex , Pfizer, Piramal, Sanofi/Tolero, Tragara and MetaMax. Several companies are pursuing discovery and research activities in each of the other areas that are the subject of our research and drug development programs. We believe that Amgen, AstraZeneca, CASI Pharmaceuticals, Nerviano Medical Sciences, Nemucore, Otsuka-Taiho Oncology and Takeda-Millennium are conducting clinical development of Aurora kinase inhibitors for hemato-oncology indications. We believe that Arbutus Biopharma, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Nerviano Medical Sciences and Takeda-Millennium have commenced clinical trials with PLK1 inhibitor candidates for hemato-oncology indications. 

Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, we may be involved in routine litigation incidental to the conduct of our business. As of December 31, 2015 we were not party to any material legal proceedings. 

Employees 

As of March 25, 2016, we had 16 full-time employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. 

Corporate information 

Our corporate headquarters are located at 200 Connell Drive, Suite 1500, Berkeley Heights, New Jersey 07922, and our telephone number is 908-517-7330. This is also where our medical and regulatory functions are located. Our research facility is located in Dundee, Scotland, which is also the center of our translational work and development programs. 

Available information 

We file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Copies of our reports, proxy statements and other information may be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at SEC Headquarters, Public Reference Room, 100 F 

&#8203; 

Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding Cyclacel. The address of the SEC website is http://www.sec.gov. 

We will also provide copies of our current reports on Form 8-K, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and proxy statements, and all amendments to those reports at no charge through our website at www.cyclacel.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We have not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the information on, or accessible through, our website. Copies are also available, without charge, from Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 200 Connell Drive, Suite 1500, Berkeley Heights, NJ 07922. 

