ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction 

On October 24, 2014, DB Commodity Services LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (&#147;DBCS&#148;), DB U.S. Financial Markets Holding Corporation (&#147;DBUSH&#148;) and Invesco PowerShares Capital Management LLC (&#147;Invesco&#148;) entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the &#147;Agreement&#148;). DBCS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DBUSH. DBCS agreed to transfer and sell to Invesco all of DBCS&#146; interest in PowerShares DB Base Metals Fund (the &#147;Fund&#148;), a separate series of PowerShares DB Multi-Sector Commodity Trust (the &#147;Trust&#148;), a Delaware statutory trust organized in seven separate series, including the sole and exclusive power to direct the business and affairs of the Trust and the Fund, as well as certain other assets of DBCS pertaining to the management of the Trust and the Fund, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement (the &#147;Transaction&#148;). 

The Transaction was consummated on February 23, 2015 (the &#147;Closing Date&#148;). Invesco now serves as the managing owner (the &#147;Managing Owner&#148;), commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor of the Trust and the Fund, in replacement of DBCS (the &#147;Predecessor Managing Owner&#148;). 

Organization 

The Fund is a separate series of the Trust. The Trust is a Delaware statutory trust organized in seven separate series and was formed on August 3, 2006. The Predecessor Managing Owner seeded the Fund with a capital contribution of $1,000 in exchange for 40 General Shares of the Fund. The General Shares were sold to the Managing Owner by the Predecessor Managing Owner pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. The fiscal year end of the Fund is December 31st. The term of the Fund is perpetual (unless terminated earlier in certain circumstances) as provided for in the Fifth Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust and Trust Agreement of the Trust (the &#147;Trust Agreement&#148;). The Fund has an unlimited number of shares authorized for issuance. 

The Fund offers common units of beneficial interest (the &#147;Shares&#148;) only to certain eligible financial institutions (the &#147;Authorized Participants&#148;) in one or more blocks of 200,000 Shares, called a Basket. The proceeds from the offering of Shares are invested in the Fund. The Fund commenced investment operations on January 3, 2007. The Fund commenced trading on the American Stock Exchange (which became the NYSE Alternext US LLC (the &#147;NYSE Alternext&#148;)) on January 5, 2007 and, as of November 25, 2008, is listed on the NYSE Arca, Inc. (the &#147;NYSE Arca&#148;). 

As of the date of this Annual Report (the &#147;Report&#148;), each of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp., Virtu Financial Capital Markets LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Virtu Financial BD LLC, Knight Capital Americas LLC, Timber Hill LLC, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLC, Jefferies &amp; Company Inc., Nomura Securities International Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, UBS Securities LLC, Cantor Fitzgerald &amp; Co., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Goldman Sachs Execution &amp; Clearing, L.P. and Citadel Securities LLC has executed a Participant Agreement. 

Fund Investment Overview 

The Fund seeks to track changes, whether positive or negative, in the level of the DBIQ Optimum Yield Industrial Metals Index Excess Return&#153; (the &#147;DBIQ OY Industrial Metals ER&#153;&#148; or the &#147;Index&#148;) over time, plus the excess, if any, of the Fund&#146;s interest income from its holdings of United States Treasury Obligations over the expenses of the Fund. The Index is intended to reflect the change in market value of the base metals sector. The commodities comprising the Index are aluminum, zinc and copper&#151;Grade A (each, an &#147;Index Commodity&#148;, and collectively, the &#147;Index Commodities&#148;). The Shares are designed for investors who want a cost-effective and convenient way to invest in a group of commodity futures contracts on U.S. and non-U.S. markets. 

The Index Commodities are currently trading on the London Metals Exchange (the &#147;LME&#148;). The Index is comprised of futures contracts on each of the Index Commodities that expire in a specific month and trade on a specific exchange (the &#147;Index Contracts&#148;). If the Managing Owner determines in its commercially reasonable judgment that it has become impracticable or inefficient for any reason for the Fund to gain full or partial exposure to any Index Commodity by investing in a specific Index Contract, the Fund may invest in (i) a futures contract referencing the particular Index Commodity other than the Index Contract or, in the alternative, invest in (ii) other futures contracts not based on the particular Index Commodity ((i) and (ii) collectively, the &#147;Alternative Futures Contracts&#148;) if, in the commercially reasonable judgment of the Managing Owner, such Alternative Futures Contracts tend to exhibit trading prices that correlate with such Index Commodity. Although the LME does not currently impose position limits on the Index Commodities, the LME may in the future impose position limits on market participants trading in certain commodities included in the Index. Further, in the event the Fund invests in Alternative Futures Contracts as described above, that trade on a U.S. exchange, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the &#147;CFTC&#148;) and the applicable commodity exchanges may impose position limits on market participants trading in the Index Commodities. Please see http://www.invescopowershares.com with respect to the most recently available weighted composition of the Fund and the composition of the Index on the Base Date. 

Table of Contents The Fund holds United States Treasury Obligations for deposit with the Commodity Broker (as defined below) as margin. The Fund does not borrow money to increase leverage. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Fund had $33,225,157 (or 26.17% of its total assets) and $250,885,301 (or 100.00% of its total assets), respectively, of its holdings of cash, United States Treasury Obligations and unrealized appreciation/depreciation on commodity futures contracts on deposit with its Commodity Broker or its Predecessor Commodity Broker (as defined below), as applicable. Of this, $33,225,157 (or 26.17% of its total assets) and $18,366,219 (or 7.32% of its total assets) was required to be deposited to satisfy maintenance margin required by the Commodity Broker and the Predecessor Commodity Broker, as applicable for the Fund&#146;s open commodity futures positions as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All the remaining cash and United States Treasury Obligations are on deposit with the Custodian (see Note 4). For additional information, please see the Schedules of Investments as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 for details of the Fund&#146;s portfolio holdings. 

The Managing Owner pays the Index Sponsor (as defined below) a licensing fee and an index services fee for performing its duties. These fees constitute a portion of the routine operational, administrative and other ordinary expenses which are paid out of the Management Fee and are not charged to or reimbursed by the Fund. 

Neither the Managing Owner nor any affiliate of the Managing Owner has any rights to influence the selection of the futures contracts underlying the Index. After the Closing Date, the Index Sponsor is not affiliated with the Fund or the Managing Owner. The Managing Owner has entered into a license agreement with the Index Sponsor to use the Index. 

The Fund is not sponsored or endorsed by Deutsche Bank AG, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. or any subsidiary or affiliate of Deutsche Bank AG or Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (collectively, &#147;Deutsche Bank&#148;). The DBIQ Optimum Yield Industrial Metals Index Excess Return&#153; (the &#147;DB Index&#148;) is the exclusive property of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. &#147;DBIQ&#148; is a service mark of Deutsche Bank AG and has been licensed for use for certain purposes by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Neither Deutsche Bank nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling the DB Index makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, concerning the DB Index, the Fund or the advisability of investing in securities generally. Neither Deutsche Bank nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling the DB Index has any obligation to take the needs of the Managing Owner, or its clients into consideration in determining, composing or calculating the DB Index. Neither Deutsche Bank nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling the DB Index is responsible for or has participated in the determination of the timing of, prices at, quantities or valuation of the Fund. Neither Deutsche Bank nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling the DB Index has any obligation or liability in connection with the administration or trading of the Fund. 

NEITHER DEUTSCHE BANK NOR ANY OTHER PARTY INVOLVED IN, OR RELATED TO, MAKING OR COMPILING THE DB INDEX, WARRANTS OR GUARANTEES THE ACCURACY AND/OR THE COMPLETENESS OF THE DB INDEX OR ANY DATA INCLUDED THEREIN AND SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ANY ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INTERRUPTIONS THEREIN. NEITHER DEUTSCHE BANK NOR ANY OTHER PARTY INVOLVED IN, OR RELATED TO, MAKING OR COMPILING THE DB INDEX, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED BY INVESCO POWERSHARES CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC FROM THE USE OF THE DB INDEX OR ANY DATA INCLUDED THEREIN. NEITHER DEUTSCHE BANK NOR ANY OTHER PARTY INVOLVED IN, OR RELATED TO, MAKING OR COMPILING THE DB INDEX, MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE WITH RESPECT TO THE DB INDEX OR ANY DATA INCLUDED THEREIN. WITHOUT LIMITING ANY OF THE FOREGOING, IN NO EVENT SHALL DEUTSCHE BANK OR ANY OTHER PARTY INVOLVED IN, OR RELATED TO, MAKING OR COMPILING THE DB INDEX HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES OR LOSSES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS), EVEN IF NOTIFIED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY, THERE ARE NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES OF ANY AGREEMENTS OR ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN DEUTSCHE BANK AND INVESCO POWERSHARES CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC. 

No purchaser, seller or holder of the Shares of this Fund, or any other person or entity, should use or refer to any Deutsche Bank trade name, trademark or service mark to sponsor, endorse, market or promote this Fund without first contacting Deutsche Bank to determine whether Deutsche Bank&#146;s permission is required. Under no circumstances may any person or entity claim any affiliation with Deutsche Bank without the written permission of Deutsche Bank. 

Index Composition 

The Index is composed of notional amounts of each of the underlying Index Commodities. The notional amount of each Index Commodity included in the Index is intended to reflect the changes in market value of each such Index Commodity within the Index. The closing level of the Index is calculated on each business day by the Index Sponsor based on the closing price of the futures contracts for each of the underlying Index Commodities and the notional amounts of such Index Commodities. 

Table of Contents The Index is rebalanced annually in November to ensure that each of the Index Commodities is weighted in the same proportion that such Index Commodities were weighted on September 3, 1997 (the &#147;Base Date&#148;). The Index has been calculated back to the Base Date. On the Base Date, the closing level was 100. The following table reflects the index base weights (the &#147;Index Base Weights&#148;) of each Index Commodity on the Base Date: 

Index Commodity 

Index Base Weight (%) Aluminum 

33.34 % Zinc 

33.33 Copper&#151;Grade A 

33.33 

Closing Level at Base Date 

100.00 % 

The composition of the Index may be adjusted in the event that the Index Sponsor is not able to calculate the closing prices of the Index Commodities. 

The following table reflects the Fund weights of each Index Commodity or related futures contracts, as applicable, as of December 31, 2015: 

Index Commodity 

Fund Weight (%) Aluminum 

34.16 % Zinc 

33.38 Copper&#151;Grade A 

32.46 

Closing Level as of December 31, 2015 

100.00 % 

The Index includes provisions for the replacement of futures contracts as they approach maturity. This replacement takes place over a period of time in order to lessen the impact on the market for the futures contracts being replaced. With respect to each Index Commodity, the Fund employs a rule-based approach when it &#147;rolls&#148; from one futures contract to another. The Index replaces the underlying futures contracts on an &#147;optimum yield&#148; basis. 

Rather than select a new futures contract based on a predetermined schedule (e.g., monthly), each Index Commodity rolls to the futures contract which generates the best possible &#147;implied roll yield.&#148; The futures contract with a delivery month within the next thirteen months which generates the best possible implied roll yield will be included in the Index. As a result, the Fund is able to potentially maximize the roll benefits in backwardated markets and minimize the losses from rolling in contangoed markets for each Index Commodity, respectively. 

In general, as a futures contract approaches its expiration date, its price will move towards the spot price in a contangoed market. Assuming the spot price does not change, this would result in the futures contract price decreasing and a negative implied roll yield. The opposite is true in a backwardated market. Rolling in a contangoed market will tend to cause a drag on an Index Commodity&#146;s contribution to the Fund&#146;s return while rolling in a backwardated market will tend to cause a push on an Index Commodity&#146;s contribution to the Fund&#146;s return. 

If the Managing Owner determines in its commercially reasonable judgment that it has become impracticable or inefficient for any reason for the Fund to gain full or partial exposure to any Index Commodity by investing in a specific Index Contract, the Fund may invest in Alternative Futures Contracts if, in the commercially reasonable judgment of the Managing Owner, such Alternative Futures Contracts tend to exhibit trading prices that correlate with an Index Contract. Please see http://www.invescopowershares.com with respect to the most recently available weighted composition of the Fund and the composition of the Index on the Base Date. 

The DBIQ Optimum Yield Industrial Metals Index is calculated in USD on both an excess return (unfunded) and total return (funded) basis. 

The futures contract price for each Index Commodity will be the exchange closing price for such Index Commodity on each weekday when banks in New York, New York are open (the &#147;Index Business Days&#148;). If a weekday is not an Exchange Business Day (as defined in the following sentence) but is an Index Business Day, the exchange closing price from the previous Index Business Day will be used for each Index Commodity. &#147;Exchange Business Day&#148; means, in respect of an Index Commodity, a day that is a trading day for such Index Commodity on the relevant exchange (unless either an Index disruption event or force majeure event has occurred). 

On the first New York business day (the &#147;Verification Date&#148;) of each month, each Index Commodity futures contract will be tested in order to determine whether to continue including it in the Index. If the Index Commodity futures contract requires delivery of the underlying commodity in the next month, known as the Delivery Month, a new Index Commodity futures contract will be selected for inclusion in the Index. For example, if the first New York business day is May 1, 2016, and the Delivery Month of the Index Commodity futures contract currently in such Index is June 2016, a new Index Commodity futures contract with a later Delivery Month will be selected. 

Table of Contents For each underlying Index Commodity of the Index, the new Index Commodity futures contract selected will be the Index Commodity futures contract with the best possible &#147;implied roll yield&#148; based on the closing price for each eligible Index Commodity futures contract. Eligible Index Commodity futures contracts are any Index Commodity futures contracts having a Delivery Month (i) no sooner than the month after the Delivery Month of the Index Commodity futures contract currently in such Index, and (ii) no later than the 13th month after the Verification Date. For example, if the first New York business day is May 1, 2016 and the Delivery Month of an Index Commodity futures contract currently in the Index is June 2016, the Delivery Month of an eligible new Index Commodity futures contract must be between July 2016 and May 2017. The implied roll yield is then calculated and the futures contract on the Index Commodity with the best possible implied roll yield is then selected. If two futures contracts have the same implied roll yield, the futures contract with the minimum number of months prior to the Delivery Month is selected. 

After the selection of the replacement futures contract, the monthly roll for each Index Commodity subject to a roll in that particular month unwinds the old futures contract and enters a position in the new futures contract. This takes place between the 2nd and 6th Index Business Day of the month. 

On each day during the roll period, new notional holdings are calculated. The calculations for the futures contracts on the old Index Commodities that are leaving the Index and the futures contracts on the new Index Commodities are then calculated. 

On all days that are not monthly index roll days, the notional holdings of each Index Commodity future remains constant. 

The Index is re-weighted on an annual basis on the 6th Index Business Day of each November. 

The calculation of the Index is expressed as the weighted average return of the Index Commodities. 

The Trustee 

Under the Trust Agreement, Wilmington Trust Company, the trustee of the Trust and the Fund (the &#147;Trustee&#148;), has delegated to the Managing Owner the exclusive management and control of all aspects of the business of the Trust and the Fund. The Trustee will have no duty or liability to supervise or monitor the performance of the Managing Owner, nor will the Trustee have any liability for the acts or omissions of the Managing Owner. The Trustee is compensated by the Managing Owner. Under the Trust Agreement, the Managing Owner, from the assets of the Fund, will indemnify the Trustee for any liability or expense relating to the ongoing operations and termination of the Fund incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Trustee. 

The Managing Owner 

The Managing Owner was formed on February 7, 2003. The Managing Owner is an affiliate of Invesco Ltd. The Managing Owner was formed to be the managing owner of investment vehicles such as exchange-traded funds and has been managing non-commodity futures based exchange-traded funds since 2003 and a commodity futures based exchange-traded fund since 2014. The Managing Owner serves as the commodity pool operator, commodity trading advisor and swap firm of the Trust and the Fund. The Managing Owner is registered as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor with the CFTC and is a member of the National Futures Association (the &#147;NFA&#148;). As a registered commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor, with respect to the Fund, the Managing Owner must comply with various regulatory requirements under the Commodity Exchange Act (the &#147;CEAct&#148;) and the rules and regulations of the CFTC and the NFA, including investor protection requirements, antifraud prohibitions, disclosure requirements, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The Managing Owner also is subject to periodic inspections and audits by the CFTC and NFA. 

The Managing Owner has served as the managing owner of the Trust and the Fund since the Closing Date on February 23, 2015. 

The Predecessor Managing Owner served as the managing owner of the Trust and the Fund prior to the Closing Date. 

The Managing Owner&#146;s main business offices are located at 3500 Lacey Road, Suite 700, Downers Grove, IL 60515, and its telephone number is (800) 983-0903. 

The Fund pays the Managing Owner a management fee monthly in arrears, in an amount equal to 0.75% per annum of the daily net asset value of the Fund (the &#147;Management Fee&#148;). The Management Fee is paid in consideration of the Managing Owner&#146;s commodity futures trading advisory services. For the avoidance of doubt, from inception up to and excluding the Closing Date, all Management Fees were paid to the Predecessor Managing Owner. Since the Closing Date, the Managing Owner has served as managing owner of the Fund and all Management Fee accruals since the Closing Date have been paid to the Managing Owner. 

Pursuant to the Trust Agreement, the Fund will indemnify the Managing Owner against any losses, judgments, liabilities, expenses and amounts paid in settlement of any claims sustained by it in connection with its activities on behalf of the Fund incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct. 

Table of Contents The Commodity Broker 

Effective as of the Closing Date, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, serves as the Fund&#146;s clearing broker (the &#147;Commodity Broker&#148;). Prior to the Closing Date, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (&#147;DBSI&#148;) served as the commodity broker (the &#147;Predecessor Commodity Broker). For the avoidance of doubt, from inception up to and excluding the Closing Date, all commission payments were paid to the Predecessor Commodity Broker. Since the Closing Date, the Commodity Broker has served as the Fund&#146;s futures clearing broker and all commission payment accruals since the Closing Date have been paid to the Commodity Broker. 

In its capacity as clearing broker, the Commodity Broker may execute or receive transactions executed by others and clears all of the Fund&#146;s futures transactions and performs certain administrative and custodial services for the Fund. The Commodity Broker is responsible, among other things, for providing periodic accountings of all dealings and actions taken by the Trust on behalf of the Fund during the reporting period, together with an accounting of all securities, cash or other indebtedness or obligations held by it or its nominees for or on behalf of the Fund. 

A variety of executing brokers execute futures transactions on behalf of the Fund. Such executing brokers &#147;give-up&#148;, or transfer for clearing, all such transactions to the Commodity Broker. The Commodity Broker is registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and is a member of the NFA in such capacity. 

The Fund pays to the Commodity Broker all brokerage commissions, including applicable exchange fees, NFA fees, give-up fees, pit brokerage fees and other transaction related fees and expenses charged in connection with trading activities. The Commodity Broker&#146;s brokerage commissions and trading fees are determined on a contract-by-contract basis. Brokerage commissions and fees in any future fiscal year or any part of any future fiscal year may be greater. On average, total charges paid to the Commodity Broker were less than $19.00, $10.00 and $10.00 per round-turn trade 1 for the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

The Administrator, Custodian and Transfer Agent 

The Bank of New York Mellon is the administrator (the &#147;Administrator&#148;) of the Fund and has entered into an Administration Agreement in connection therewith. The Bank of New York Mellon serves as custodian (the &#147;Custodian&#148;) of the Fund and has entered into a Global Custody Agreement (the &#147;Custody Agreement&#148;) in connection therewith. The Bank of New York Mellon serves as the transfer agent (the &#147;Transfer Agent&#148;) of the Fund and has entered into a Transfer Agency and Service Agreement in connection therewith. 

The Bank of New York Mellon, a banking corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York with trust powers, has an office at 101 Barclay Street, New York 10286. The Bank of New York Mellon is subject to supervision by the New York State Banking Department and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 

Pursuant to the Administration Agreement, the Administrator performs or supervises the performance of services necessary for the operation and administration of the Fund (other than making investment decisions), including receiving and processing orders from Authorized Participants to create and redeem Baskets, net asset value calculations, accounting and other fund administrative services. The Administrator retains certain financial books and records, including: Basket creation and redemption books and records, fund accounting records, ledgers with respect to assets, liabilities, capital, income and expenses, the registrar, transfer journals and related details, and trading and related documents received from futures commission merchants. 

The Administration Agreement is continuously in effect unless terminated on at least 90 days&#146; prior written notice by either party to the other party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may terminate the Administration Agreement upon 30 days&#146; prior written notice if the Fund has materially failed to perform its obligations under the Administration Agreement. 

The Administration Agreement provides for the exculpation and indemnification of the Administrator from and against any costs, expenses, damages, liabilities or claims (other than those resulting from the Administrator&#146;s own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct) which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Administrator in performing its obligations or duties under the Administration Agreement. 

The Managing Owner pays the Administrator administrative service fees out of the Management Fee. 

The Administrator and any of its affiliates may from time-to-time purchase or sell Shares for their own account, as agent for their customers and for accounts over which they exercise investment discretion. 

The Administrator receives a transaction processing fee in connection with orders from Authorized Participants to create or redeem Baskets in the amount of $500 per order. These transaction processing fees are paid directly by the Authorized Participants and not by the Fund. 

The Distributor 

ALPS Distributors, Inc. (the &#147;Distributor&#148;) provides certain distribution services to the Fund. Pursuant to the Distribution Services Agreement, the Distributor assists the Managing Owner and the Administrator with certain functions and duties relating to distribution and marketing services to the Fund including reviewing and approving marketing materials. 

1 A round-turn trade is a completed transaction involving both a purchase and a liquidating sale, or a sale followed by a covering purchase. 

Table of Contents The Distribution Services Agreement is terminable without penalty on sixty days&#146; written notice by the Managing Owner or by the Distributor. The Distribution Services Agreement will automatically terminate in the event of its assignment. 

Pursuant to the Distribution Services Agreement, the Fund will indemnify and hold harmless the Distributor and each of its directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Distributor within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act, against any loss, liability, claim, damages or expenses (including the reasonable cost of investigating or defending any alleged loss, liability, claim, damages or expense and reasonable counsel fees incurred in connection therewith) arising by reason of any person acquiring any Shares, based upon the ground that the registration statement, prospectus, statement of additional information, shareholder reports or other information filed or made public by the Fund (as from time-to-time amended) included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated or necessary in order to make the statements not misleading under the 1933 Act or any other statute or the common law. 

The Managing Owner pays the Distributor a distribution fee out of the Management Fee. 

Index Sponsor 

Effective as of the Closing Date, the Managing Owner, on behalf of the Trust and the Fund, has appointed Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. to serve as the index sponsor (the &#147;Index Sponsor&#148;). Prior to the Closing Date, the index sponsor was Deutsche Bank AG London. The Index Sponsor calculates and publishes the daily index levels and the indicative intraday index levels. Additionally, the Index Sponsor also calculates the indicative value per Share of the Fund throughout each business day. The Index Sponsor may subcontract its services from time-to-time to one or more third parties. 

The Managing Owner pays the Index Sponsor a licensing fee and an index services fee out of the Management Fee for performing its duties. 

Marketing Agent 

Effective as of the Closing Date, the Managing Owner, on behalf of the Trust and the Fund, has appointed Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as the marketing agent (the &#147;Marketing Agent&#148;), to assist the Managing Owner by providing support to educate institutional investors about the DBIQ indices and to complete governmental or institutional due diligence questionnaires or requests for proposals related to the DBIQ indices. 

The Managing Owner pays the Marketing Agent a marketing services fee out of the Management Fee. 

The Marketing Agent will not open or maintain customer accounts or handle orders for the Fund. The Marketing Agent has no responsibility for the performance of the Fund or the decisions made or actions taken by the Managing Owner. 

Tax Reporting 

The Fund has retained the services of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist with certain tax reporting requirements of the Fund and its Shareholders. 

Regulation 

Futures exchanges in the United States are subject to regulation under the CEAct by the CFTC, the governmental agency having responsibility for regulation of futures exchanges and trading on those exchanges. No U.S. governmental agency regulates the over-the-counter (the &#147;OTC&#148;) foreign exchange markets. 

The CEAct and the CFTC also regulate the activities of &#147;commodity trading advisors&#148; and &#147;commodity pool operators&#148; and the CFTC has adopted regulations with respect to certain of such persons&#146; activities. Pursuant to its authority, the CFTC requires a commodity pool operator (such as the Managing Owner) to keep accurate, current and orderly records with respect to each pool it operates. The CFTC may suspend the registration of a commodity pool operator if the CFTC finds that the operator has violated the CEAct or regulations thereunder and in certain other circumstances. Suspension, restriction or termination of the Managing Owner&#146;s registration as a commodity pool operator would prevent it, until such time (if any) as such registration were to be reinstated, from managing, and might result in the termination of, the Fund. The CEAct gives the CFTC similar authority with respect to the activities of commodity trading advisors, such as the Managing Owner. If the registration of a managing owner as a commodity trading advisor were to be terminated, restricted or suspended, the managing owner would be unable, until such time (if any) as such registration were to be reinstated, to render trading advice to the Fund. The Fund is not registered with the CFTC in any capacity. 

The CEAct requires all &#147;futures commission merchants,&#148; such as the Commodity Broker, to meet and maintain specified fitness and financial requirements, segregate customer funds from proprietary funds and account separately for all customers&#146; funds and positions, and to maintain specified books and records open to inspection by the staff of the CFTC. 

The CEAct also gives the states certain powers to enforce its provisions and the regulations of the CFTC. 

Table of Contents Shareholders are afforded certain rights for reparations under the CEAct. Shareholders may also be able to maintain a private right of action for certain violations of the CEAct. The CFTC has adopted rules implementing the reparation provisions of the CEAct which provide that any person may file a complaint for a reparations award with the CFTC for violation of the CEAct against a floor broker, futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, and their respective associated persons. 

Pursuant to authority in the CEAct, the NFA was formed and registered with the CFTC as a &#147;registered futures association.&#148; At the present time, the NFA is the only non-exchange self-regulatory organization for commodities professionals. NFA members are subject to NFA standards relating to fair trade practices, financial condition, and consumer protection. As the self-regulatory body of the commodities industry, the NFA promulgates rules governing the conduct of commodity professionals and disciplines those professionals who do not comply with such standards. The CFTC has delegated to the NFA responsibility for the registration of commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and their respective associated persons and floor brokers. The Commodity Broker and the Managing Owner are members of the NFA (the Fund itself is not required to become a member of the NFA). 

The CFTC has no authority to regulate trading on foreign commodity exchanges and markets. 

Employees 

The Fund has no employees. 

Available Information 

The Fund files with or submits to the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports and other information meeting the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. These reports are available on the Managing Owner&#146;s website at http://www.invescopowershares.com . Investors may also inspect and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information, and related exhibits and schedules, at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed electronically by us with the SEC which are available on the SEC&#146;s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov . 

The Fund also posts monthly performance reports and its annual report, as required by the CFTC, on the Managing Owner&#146;s website at the address listed above. 

Table of Contents 