 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

(dollars in millions) 

GENERAL 

Diebold, Incorporated (collectively with its subsidiaries, the Company) was incorporated under the laws of the state of Ohio in August 1876, succeeding a proprietorship established in 1859. 

The Company provides the services, software and technology that connect people around the world with their money &#8212; bridging the physical and digital worlds of cash conveniently, securely and efficiently. Since its founding, the Company has evolved to become a leading provider of exceptional self-service innovation, security and services to financial, retail, commercial and other markets. At December 31, 2015 , the Company employed approximately 16,000 associates globally, of which approximately 1,000 relate to the Company's recently divested electronic security business. The Company&#8217;s service staff is one of the financial industry&#8217;s largest, with professionals in more than 600 locations and businesses in more than 90 countries worldwide. The Company continues to execute its multi-year transformation, Diebold 2.0, with the primary objective of transforming the Company into a world-class, services-led and software-enabled company, supported by innovative hardware. 

Diebold 2.0 consists of four pillars: 

&#8226; 

Cost &#32; - Streamline the cost structure and improve near-term delivery and execution. 

&#8226; 

Cash &#32; - Generate increased free cash flow in order to fund the investments necessary to drive profitable growth, while preserving the ability to return value to shareholders. 

&#8226; 

Talent &#32; - Attract and retain the talent necessary to drive innovation and the execution of the transformation strategy. 

&#8226; 

Growth &#32; - Return Diebold to a sustainable and profitable growth trajectory. 

As part of the transformation, the Company has identified targeted savings of $200.0 that are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2017. Through the end of 2015, the Company has achieved $150.0 of gross cost savings. The Company has been reinvesting approximately 50 percent of the cost savings to drive long-term growth and operational efficiency. 

The Company&#8217;s multi-year transformation plan consists of three phases: 1) Crawl, 2) Walk, and 3) Run. During the &#8220;Crawl&#8221; phase, Diebold was primarily focused on taking cost out of the business and reallocating a portion of these savings as reinvestments in systems and processes. The Company engaged Accenture LLP (Accenture) in a multi-year outsourcing agreement to provide finance and accounting and procurement business process services. With respect to talent, the Company attracted new leaders from top technology and services companies. 

During the second half of 2015, the Company fully transitioned into the &#8220;Walk&#8221; phase of Diebold 2.0 whereby the Company will continue to build on each pillar of cost, cash, talent and growth. The main difference in the &#8220;Walk&#8221; phase will be a greater emphasis on increasing the mix of revenue from services and software, as well as shaping the Company&#8217;s portfolio of businesses. As it relates to increasing the mix of services and software, the Company has sharpened its focus on pursuing and winning managed services and multi-vendor services contracts. For the software business, the acquisition of Phoenix Interactive Design, Inc. (Phoenix) has significantly enhanced the Company's ability to capture more of the market for automated teller machine (ATM), multi-vendor, marketing and asset management software. All of the Company&#8217;s global software activities are being coordinated through the new development center in London, Ontario. 

As it relates to shaping the portfolio of businesses, the Company&#8217;s achievements in 2015 are consistent with its strategy of transforming into a world-class, services-led, software-enabled company, supported by innovative hardware. 

&#8226; 

On March 16, 2015 - Diebold acquired Phoenix. 

&#8226; 

During the first half of 2015, Diebold divested its Venezuela business. 

&#8226; 

On October 25, 2015 - Diebold entered into an agreement to divest its North America electronic security business to Securitas AB. 

&#8226; 

During 2015 - Diebold narrowed its scope in the Brazil other business to primarily focus on lottery and elections. 

&#8226; 

On November 23, 2015 - Diebold and Wincor Nixdorf entered into a business combination agreement (Business Combination) to create a premier self-service company for financial and retail markets. 

&#8226; 

On December 18, 2015 - Diebold announced it is forming a new joint venture with Inspur, one of China&#8217;s leading IT companies, to provide ATMs and kiosks to the China market. 

All of these decisions enable the Company to focus its resources and to pursue growth opportunities in the dynamic, global self-service industry. The Company will continue to execute on its &#8220;Walk&#8221; phase objectives throughout 2016. 

SERVICE AND PRODUCT SOLUTIONS 

The Company has two core lines of business: Financial Self-Service (FSS) and Security Solutions, which the Company integrates based on its customers&#8217; needs. Financial information for the service and product solutions can be found in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Self-Service 

The Company offers an integrated line of self-service solutions and technology, including comprehensive ATM outsourcing, ATM security, deposit automation, recycling and payment terminals and software. The Company also offers advanced functionality terminals capable of supporting mobile card-less transactions and two-way video technology to enhance bank branch automation. The Company is a global supplier of ATMs and related services and holds a leading market position in many countries around the world. 

Self-Service Support &#38; Maintenance. &#32;From analysis and consulting to monitoring and repair, the Company provides value and support to its customers every step of the way. Services include installation and ongoing maintenance of our products, OpteView&#174; remote services, availability management, branch automation and distribution channel consulting. Additionally, service revenue includes services and parts the Company provides on a billed-work basis that are not covered by warranty or service contract. 

Value-added Services. 

&#8226; 

Managed Services and Outsourcing &#32;- The Company provides end-to-end managed services and full outsourcing solutions, which include remote monitoring, troubleshooting for self-service customers, transaction processing, currency management, maintenance services and full support via person-to-person or online communication. This helps customers maximize their self-service channel by incorporating new technology, meeting compliance and regulatory mandates, protecting their institutions and reducing costs, all while ensuring a high level of service for their customers. The Company provides value to its customers by offering a comprehensive array of hardware-agnostic managed services and support. 

&#8226; 

Professional Services &#32;- The Company&#8217;s service organization provides strategic analysis and planning of new systems, systems integration, architectural engineering, consulting and project management that encompass all facets &#8212; services, software and technology &#8212; of a successful self-service implementation. The Company&#8217;s Advisory Services team collaborates with our clients to help define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch automation objectives. 

&#8226; 

Multi-vendor Services - The Company recently sharpened its focus on securing multi-vendor services contracts primarily in North America. With the prevalence of mixed ATM fleets at financial institutions, the ability to service competitive units allows the Company to offer a differentiated, full service solution to its customers. 

Self-Service Software. The Company offers integrated, multi-vendor ATM software solutions designed to meet the evolving demands of a customer&#8217;s self-service network. The Company has enhanced its self-service software platforms with the acquisition of Phoenix. There are five primary types of self-service software that Diebold provides for customers, which include 1) terminal application software, 2) automation technology software, 3) operational software, 4) marketing software and 5) security. Terminal application software provides the ability to integrate seamlessly into traditional and multi-vendor environments while providing advanced service options to bring new functions quicker to market and improve the customer experience while providing the Financial Institution (FI) the ability to host this centrally or distribute it at their terminals. Automation technology software enables the self-service platform to transform into a robust enterprise banking solution that can connect seamlessly to other banking channels and systems for a consistent user experience, advanced functionality and greater operational efficiencies. Operational software provides centralized management of the entire self-service fleet, providing better intelligence and operations for improved efficiencies and cost control using data analytics. Marketing software allows FIs to provide personalized interaction with the consumer through the self-service channel, enhancing customer satisfaction and revenue generation. All software has enhanced security functions built-in for providing FIs the flexibility and enhanced consumer experience while ensuring that they are the trusted partners in the eco-system. 

Self-Service Products. &#32;The Company offers a wide variety of self-service solutions. Self-service products include a full range of teller automation terminals as well as ATMs capable of cash dispensing and a number of more advanced functionalities, including check and cash deposit automation, cash recycling, mobile capabilities and two-way video. 

In 2015, the Company completed the rollout of a suite of next-generation self-service terminals (Diebold Series), which offer a wide range of available capabilities and give Diebold the most modern fleet of ATMs in the market. The Diebold Series terminal consists of three new lines of ATMs-standard market, extended branch and high-performance. Each line is designed to meet specific market and branch needs: (1) the standard line is ideal for high-growth areas with mass-market applications; (2) the extended branch line offers rich transaction sets and advanced functionalities; (3) and the high-performance line offers highly personalized self-service experiences that are ideal for high-traffic, high-volume environments. The new self-service platform, paired with Diebold's industry-leading services and software, provide a complete end-to-end solution for FIs. 

A significant demand driver in the global FSS marketplace is branch automation. The Company serves as a strategic partner to its customers by offering a complete branch automation solution that encompasses services, software and technology, as well as 

addresses the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate. The concept is to help FIs reduce their costs by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch, to lower-cost automated channels, while also growing revenue, and adding convenience and security for the banks' customers. The Company's Advisory Services team collaborates with our clients to help define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch automation objectives. The Diebold 9900 in-lobby teller terminal (ILT) provides branch automation technology by combining the speed and accuracy of a self-service terminal with intelligence from the bank&#8217;s core systems, as well as the ability to complete higher value transactions away from the teller line. 

The Company remains committed to collaborative innovation with its customers. In 2015, the Company introduced two new self-service concepts, Irving and Janus. Irving utilizes a number of different consumer recognition technologies and a secure mobile phone application to execute cardless transactions. The Company is a leader in self-service biometrics and the Irving concept leverages these capabilities with iris-scanning ATM technology that is being piloted by one of the largest banks in the United States. Janus is a dual-sided self-service terminal, which features video teller access and is capable of serving two consumers simultaneously. 

Security Solutions 

From the safes and vaults that the Company first manufactured in 1859 to the full range of physical and electronic security offerings it provides today, the Company&#8217;s security solutions combine an extensive services portfolio and advanced products to help address its customers&#8217; unique needs. The Company provides its customers with the latest technological advances to better protect their assets, improve their workflow and increase their return on investment. All of these solutions are backed with experienced sales, installation and service teams. The Company is a leader in providing physical and electronic security systems as well as assisted transactions, providing total security systems solutions to financial, commercial, retail, and other markets. 

Physical Security. &#32;The Company provides services for a portfolio of physical security offerings, in addition to serving as a national locksmith. The product portfolio consists of two primary product groups, facility products and barrier solutions. Facility products include pneumatic tube systems for drive-up lanes, as well as video and audio capability to support remote transactions. Barrier solutions include vaults, safes, depositories, bullet-resistive items and under-counter equipment. The Company recently launched its VeraPass&#174; barrier solution, which is a unique access solution for FIs, retailers, and commercial property management firms that enhances the management of locks and keys. 

Electronic Security. &#32;The Company provides a broad range of electronic security services and products, as well as monitoring solutions. The Company provides security monitoring solutions, including remote monitoring and diagnostics, fire detection, intrusion protection, managed access control, energy management, remote video management and storage, logical security and web-based solutions through its SecureStat&#174; platform. 

On October 25, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive asset purchase agreement to divest its North America-based electronic security business. For ES to continue its growth, it would require resources and investment that Diebold is not committed to make given its focus on the self-service market. On February 1, 2016, the Company divested its North America electronic security business to Securitas AB for an aggregate purchase price of $350.0 in cash, 10.0% of which is contingent on the successful transition of certain customer relationships, which management expects to receive full payment of $35.0 in the first quarter of 2016 now that all contingencies for this payment have been achieved. The Company has also agreed to provide certain transition services to Securitas AB after the closing, including providing a $6.0 credit for such services. As a result, North America electronic security financial results are reported as discontinued operations for the periods presented in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

The continuing electronic security business net sales were $67.3, $80.2 and $76.2 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Brazil Other 

The Company offers election, lottery and information technology solutions to customers in Brazil. The Company provides voting machines for official elections in Brazil. The Company also provides the terminals for the governmental lottery and correspondent bank, which are distributed in more than 11,000 locations across the country. During 2015, the Company narrowed its scope in the Brazil other business to primarily focus on lottery and elections to help rationalize its solution set in that market. 

OPERATIONS 

The Company&#8217;s operating results and the amount and timing of revenue are affected by numerous factors, including production schedules, customer priorities, sales volume and sales mix. During the past several years, the Company has changed the focus of its self-service business to that of a total solutions provider with a focus on services and software. 

The principal raw materials used by the Company in its manufacturing operations are steel, plastics, electronic parts and components, and spare parts, which are purchased from various major suppliers. These materials and components are generally available in ample quantities. 

The Company carries working capital mainly related to trade receivables and inventories. Inventories generally are only manufactured or purchased as orders are received from customers. The Company&#8217;s normal and customary payment terms generally range from 30 to 90 days from date of invoice. The Company generally does not offer extended payment terms. The Company also provides financing arrangements to customers that are largely classified and accounted for as sales-type leases. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company&#8217;s net investment in finance lease receivables was $74.9 . 

SEGMENTS AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS 

The Company&#8217;s operations are comprised of four geographic segments: North America (NA), Asia Pacific (AP), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Latin America (LA). The four geographic segments sell and service FSS and security systems around the globe, as well as elections, lottery and information technology solutions in Brazil other, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and independent distributors in most major countries. 

Sales to customers outside the United States in relation to total consolidated net sales were $1,405.0 &#32;or 58.1 percent &#32;in 2015, $1,698.9 &#32;or 62.1 percent &#32;in 2014 and $1,477.5 &#32;or 57.2 percent &#32;in 2013. 

Property, plant and equipment, net, located in the United States totaled $130.4 , $116.5 &#32;and $101.4 &#32;as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and property, plant and equipment, net, located outside the United States totaled $44.9 , $49.2 &#32;and $56.4 &#32;as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Additional financial information regarding the Company&#8217;s international operations is included in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The Company&#8217;s non-U.S. operations are subject to normal international business risks not generally applicable to domestic business. These risks include currency fluctuation, new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, political and economic changes and disruptions, tariffs or other barriers, potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. 

PRODUCT BACKLOG 

The Company's product backlog, excluding the North America electronic security business, was $607.5 &#32;and $611.1 &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. The backlog includes orders estimated or projected to be shipped or installed within 12 months. Although the Company believes the orders included in the backlog are firm, some orders may be canceled by customers without penalty, and the Company may elect to permit cancellation of orders without penalty where management believes it is in the Company's best interests to do so. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant cancellations within its product backlog. Additionally, over 50 percent of the Company's revenues are derived from its service business, for which backlog information is not measured. Therefore, the Company does not believe that its product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of revenues for any future period. 

COMPETITION 

As described in more detail below, the Company participates in many highly competitive businesses in the services, software and technology space, with a mixture of local, regional and/or global competitors in its markets. In addition, the competitive environment for these types of solutions is evolving as the Company's customers are transforming their businesses utilizing innovative technology. Therefore, the Company&#8217;s product and service solutions must also provide cutting-edge capabilities to meet the customers emerging needs and compete with new innovators. The Company distinguishes itself by providing unique value with a wide range of innovative solutions to meet customers&#8217; needs. 

The Company believes, based upon outside independent industry surveys from Retail Banking Research (RBR), that it is an exceptional service provider for and manufacturer of self-service solutions in the United States and internationally. The Company maintains a global service infrastructure that allows it to provide services and support to satisfy its customers&#8217; needs. Many of the Company&#8217;s customers are beginning to adopt branch automation solutions to transform their branches, which will improve the customer experience and enhance efficiency through the utilization of automated transactions, mobile solutions and other client-facing technologies. As the trend towards branch automation continues to build more momentum, the traditional lines of &#8220;behind the counter&#8221; and &#8220;in front of the counter&#8221; are starting to blur, which is allowing for more entrants into the market. As customer requirements evolve, separate markets will converge to fulfill new customer demand. The Company expects that this will increase the complexity and competitive nature of the business. 

The Company&#8217;s competitors in the self-service market segment include global and multi-regional manufacturers and service providers, such as NCR, Wincor Nixdorf, Nautilus Hyosung, GRG Banking Equipment, Glory Global Solutions, Oki Data and Triton Systems to a number of primarily local and regional manufacturers and service providers, including, but not limited to, Fujitsu and Hitachi-Omron in AP; Hantle/GenMega in NA; KEBA in EMEA; and Perto in LA. In addition, the Company faces competition in many markets from numerous independent ATM deployers. 

In the self-service software market, the Company, in addition to the key hardware players highlighted above, competes with several smaller, niche software companies like KAL. In the managed services and outsourcing solutions market, apart from its traditional FSS competitors, the Company competes with a number of large technology competitors such as Fiserv, IBM and HP. 

In the security service and product markets, the Company competes with national, regional and local security companies. Of these competitors, some compete in only one or two product lines, while others sell a broad spectrum of security services and products. The unavailability of comparative sales information and the large variety of individual services and products make it difficult to give reasonable estimates of the Company&#8217;s competitive ranking in or share of the security market within the financial services, commercial, retail and government sectors. However, the Company believes it is a very well positioned security service and solution provider to global, national, regional and local financial, commercial and industrial customers. 

The Company provides election systems, product solutions and support to the Brazil government. Competition in this market segment is based upon technology pre-qualification demonstrations to the Brazil government. 

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING 

Customer demand for FSS and security technologies is growing. In order to meet this demand, the Company is focused on delivering innovation to its customers by continuing to invest in technology solutions that enable customers to reduce costs and improve efficiency. Expenditures for research, development and engineering initiatives were $86.9 , $93.6 &#32;and $92.2 &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. The Company recently announced a number of new innovative solutions, such as the responsive banking concept, the ActivEdge&#8482; secure card reader and the world&#8217;s greenest ATM, as well as launched a new ATM product platform. 

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES 

The Company owns patents, trademarks and licenses relating to certain products in the United States and internationally. While the Company regards these as items of importance, it does not deem its business as a whole, or any industry segment, to be materially dependent upon any one item or group of items. Under Diebold 2.0, the Company intends to protect and defend its intellectual property, including pursuit of infringing third parties for damages and other appropriate remedies. 

ENVIRONMENTAL 

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws during 2015 &#32;had no material effect upon the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition or results of operations. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015 , the Company employed approximately 16,000 associates globally, of which approximately 1,000 relate to the Company's recently divested electronic security business. The Company&#8217;s service staff is one of the financial industry&#8217;s largest, with professionals in more than 600 locations and businesses in more than 90 countries worldwide. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Refer to Part III, Item 10 of this annual report on Form 10-K for information on the Company's executive officers, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company uses its Investor Relations web site, www.diebold.com/investors , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including stock information, news releases, investor presentations and financial information. The Company posts filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its annual, quarterly, and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K; its proxy statements; registration statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements. All such postings and filings are available on the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, this web site allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when the Company posts news releases and financial information on its web site. Investors and other interested persons can also follow the Company on Twitter at http://twitter.com/dieboldinc . The SEC also maintains a web site, www.sec.gov , that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any web site referred to in this annual report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this annual report unless expressly noted. 

