 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General Background and Product Offerings 

Digi International Inc. (&#8220;Digi,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;) was incorporated in 1985 as a Minnesota corporation. We were reorganized as a Delaware corporation in 1989 in conjunction with our initial public offering. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol DGII. Our World Headquarters is located at 11001 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343. The telephone number at our World Headquarters is (952) 912-3444. 

We are a leading global provider of business and mission-critical machine-to-machine (M2M) and Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity products and services. We help our customers create next-generation connected products and deploy and manage critical communications infrastructures in demanding environments with high levels of security and reliability. We create secure, easy to implement embedded solutions and services to help customers build IoT connectivity. We also deploy ready to use, complete box solutions to connect remote machinery. In addition, we manage cloud services, offer professional services and complete IoT solutions. Most recently we formed a cold chain solution that offers automated wireless temperature monitoring as well as employee task management services to restaurants, convenience stores, warehouses and other businesses that have perishable or temperature sensitive goods. Our products and services are used by a wide range of businesses and institutions. 

Our present portfolio primarily includes: 

&#8226; 

Wireless and wired hardware products that have been the historical foundation of our business; 

&#8226; 

Services include the following offerings: 

&#9702; 

Digi Cold Chain Solutions is a wireless end-to-end solution that utilizes sensors, gateways and an easy-to-use software application that enables companies to monitor automatically the temperature of perishable goods effectively and economically. Our Digi Cold Chain Solutions are the result of our acquisition of Bluenica Corporation in October 2015 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). On November 1, 2016, we acquired Pittsburgh-based FreshTemp, LLC (FreshTemp). This acquisition expands our offerings and customer base in this market space (see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). FreshTemp helps organizations track the completion of employee tasks in real time via the use of software applications in which employees log their activities in real-time. 

&#9702; 

Wireless Design Services provide customers with turn-key wireless networking product design, testing, and certification for a wide range of wireless technology platforms and applications to improve speed to market and reduce risk. 

&#9702; 

Digi Support Services provides various levels of technical support to customers with programming and implementation challenges related to Digi products. We offer base support up to our highest level of professional support which includes implementation planning, application development, on-site support, installation and customer training. These support services help minimize design risk and ensure optimal performance. 

&#9702; 

Digi Device Cloud&#8482; and Digi Remote Manager &#8482; &#32;- Digi Device Cloud&#8482; (Device Cloud) is a platform as-a-service (PaaS) offering that provides a secure environment for customers to aggregate their interaction with a large number of disparate devices and connect enterprise applications to these devices. This allows for devices to be monitored and controlled remotely and permits customers to collect, interpret and utilize data from many devices to operate their businesses efficiently and with greater ease. Digi Remote Manager&#8482; is a complete, centralized remote device management solution that is housed on the Digi Device Cloud&#8482; and allows customers to meet service level commitments and stay compliant with Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards. Digi Remote Manager&#8482; also allows customers to monitor, diagnose and fix remote devices without sending a technician on site. 

In October 2015, we sold our Etherios, Inc. CRM consulting services business (&#8220;Etherios&#8221;), which focused on integration and configuration of enterprise resource management (ERM) systems, including customer relationship management (CRM) systems. This part of our business principally provided integration and configuration of salesforce.com products. As a result of the sale of Etherios, we have accounted for it as a discontinued operation. Accordingly, amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, the Consolidated Balance Sheets and notes thereto, for all periods affected, have been reclassified to reflect discontinued operations accounting for that business. For more information on this divestiture see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For more in-depth descriptions of our primary hardware products, please refer to the heading &#8220;Listing of Principal Hardware 

Products and Services&#8221; at the end of Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

Our hardware product revenue represented 96.6%, 95.9% and 94.4% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our service revenue represented 3.4%, 4.1% and 5.6% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our corporate website address is www.digi.com. In the &#8220;Company - Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website, we make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement and any amendments to these reports available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Each of these documents can also be obtained free of charge (except for a reasonable charge for duplicating exhibits to our reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K) in print by any stockholder who requests them from our investor relations personnel. The Investor Relations email address is ir@digi.com and its mailing address is: Investor Relations Administrator, Digi International Inc., 11001 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343. These reports can also be accessed via the SEC website, www.sec.gov, or via the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information concerning the operation of the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. 

Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

Industry and Marketplace Conditions 

Current Market Conditions 

We believe the marketplace for IoT products and services will continue to expand generally. While we realized significant revenue growth in fiscal 2015, our business stagnated in fiscal 2016 primarily because certain significant customers of our cellular and RF products slowed their purchases of our products. While we generally expect the trend of marketplace growth to continue, it is susceptible to downturns in general economic conditions as well as uncertainty or changes in the regulatory environments. These impacts may be more pronounced in certain industries. For instance, the oil and gas marketplace for IoT networking products has been more challenging in recent years because of lower prices for these natural resources. Further, as demonstrated in fiscal 2016, our own ability to grow our core hardware business can be subject to fluctuation. Sales of many of our products are subject to large non-repeatable customer deployments. If we are unable to identify and commence new deployments with equal or greater significance than completed projects, our growth from period to period may be inconsistent. In turn, if we do not replace significant opportunities as they conclude with similar opportunities of scale, our growth from period to period may be inconsistent. 

Strategy 

Current Status of Our Business 

Since appointing Ronald E. Konezny as our Chief Executive Officer in December, 2014, we have focused on: 

&#8226; 

Simplifying our operations; 

&#8226; 

Improving our operating expense model and profitability; and 

&#8226; 

Exploring ways to drive greater revenue growth. 

Among other actions we have taken to advance these aims during that time include: 

&#8226; 

We have taken steps to contain our operating expenses and delivered higher levels of profitability despite decreased revenue in fiscal 2016. 

&#8226; 

We focused our business and improved our operating model by selling our Etherios CRM consulting business in October 2015. We acquired Etherios with the expectation that it would drive engagements with companies that utilize the salesforce.com platform and were looking to deploy solutions within their businesses. We were not, however, rewarded in the marketplace as we had hoped. As a result, we disposed of a consulting business that was losing money and not fully tied to our core hardware expertise. 

&#8226; 

We have consolidated and relocated office locations. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we moved our Wireless Design Services team from an office in downtown Minneapolis to our World Headquarters in suburban Minnetonka. At first, this move was disruptive for some employees of the Wireless Design Services team and the revenues of the business 

consequently suffered due to attrition. However, as of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 business results have begun to rebound. Additionally, we closed our office location in Dortmund, Germany in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 and moved the corresponding positions to our existing office in Munich, Germany. These moves improved our operating expenses and better positions our employees to drive positive results in our operations through increased collaboration. We also expect to benefit from closer proximity to certain key customers in the Munich area. 

&#8226; 

During fiscal 2016, we continued to reduce the number of hardware product stock keeping units (SKUs) we produce. We expect this effort to simplify our operations will have a significant impact on our ability to manage inventory effectively, improve channel stocking strategies and control costs. At present, SKUs have been reduced from close to 5,000 to approximately 2,700. 

&#8226; 

Our recent acquisitions enhance our opportunity to develop a high-growth hardware enabled service business with significant recurring revenue potential. In October 2015, we acquired Bluenica Corporation, a company focused on automating temperature monitoring of perishable goods in the food industry by using wireless sensors and a web-based application. In November 2016, we also acquired Pittsburgh-based FreshTemp, LLC. See "Acquisitions and Dispositions" below for further discussion. These acquisitions will provide us with an advanced portfolio of products for the cold chain market. 

Long Term Strategy 

We are focused on creating a high-growth business that leverages our long-term strengths of providing reliable and secure equipment and solutions for the M2M marketplace. We intend to continue to take steps to simplify our operations, improve operating expenses to increase our profit leverage and expand our business in ways that we believe can drive growth. We will continue to seek and evaluate acquisitions that will further enhance Digi Cold Chain Solutions as we believe this marketplace offers a path to a significant base of recurring revenue that can provide both stability and significant growth for us. If opportunities present themselves, we may also seek to acquire hardware or other businesses that we believe can improve our market position in our core IoT hardware business. 

Acquisitions and Dispositions 

Acquisitions 

In October 2015, we acquired Bluenica Corporation, a company focused on temperature monitoring of perishable goods in the food industry by using wireless sensors which are installed in grocery and convenience stores, restaurants, and in products during shipment and storage to ensure that quality, freshness and public health requirements are met (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). 

This Company formed the initial basis for Digi Cold Chain Solutions and was purchased for several reasons. First, it provided us with the opportunity to develop a recurring revenue business that is focused on a large addressable market that has not been penetrated significantly. Restaurants, pharmacies, hospitals and other businesses that maintain significant inventories of perishable goods are an enormous market. These businesses by and large presently rely primarily on employees to log the temperature of these goods periodically using pencil and paper. This is not as cost effective or secure as using wireless communications sensors to provide real time alerts at all times. Second, at present this marketplace primarily is served by smaller companies that lack the infrastructure to provide hardware enabled service to customers in as effective and efficient a manner as we are able to do because of our long-standing history as an IoT hardware provider. Third, we believe customers in this marketplace will not require significant customization or development of existing products before they will commit to purchase the solution. This differs from many of our present customers who often ask us to create a highly customized product that cannot be easily sold to other parties. This potential for repeatable sales of an established product suite appeals to us. Fourth, by protecting valuable goods that impact health and safety, the solution provides a clear return on investment for potential customers whose business and reputation is highly reliant on maintaining inventory that is safe for human consumption. 

We have further enhanced Digi Cold Chain Solutions with the November 1, 2016 acquisition of Pittsburgh based FreshTemp, LLC (FreshTemp). FreshTemp offers restaurants, convenience stores and other retailers the ability to monitor the temperature of food products automatically through the use of wireless sensors. The company also enables these businesses to track in real time the completion of operational tasks by their employees that could impact human health and safety - a capability that we believe enhances our product offering. 

Disposition 

On October 23, 2015, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with West Monroe Partners, LLC, pursuant to which they acquired our Etherios CRM consulting services business. We sold Etherios as part of a strategy to focus on providing highly reliable machine connectivity solutions for business and mission-critical application environments (see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). 

These are the only acquisitions and dispositions we have completed in the past five years. We will continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to acquire businesses as they arise and may seek to divest businesses or assets we no longer consider appropriate to our long-term strategy. 

Sales Channels 

We sell our products through a global network of distributors, systems integrators and value added resellers (VARs) which accounted for 66.1%, 61.8% and 63.0% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We also complete sales through our own dedicated sales organization to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and other customers which accounted for 33.9%, 38.2% and 37.0% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Distributors 

Our larger distributors, based on sales we make to them, include Alcom Electronics BV, Anewtech Systems Pte Ltd., Arrow Electronics, Inc., Astone Technologies, Atlantik Elektronik GmbH, Avnet, Codico GmbH, Digi-Key Corporation, Express Systems &#38; Peripherals, Future Electronics, Ingram Micro, Melchoni S.p.A., Miel, Mouser Electronics, Novotech, Sapply Pty. Ltd., Scansource Corporation, Solid State Supplies, Ltd., Sphinx Computer Vertriebs GmbH, Synnex, Tech Data Corporation and Tokyo Electron Device Ltd. We also maintain relationships with many other distributors in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. 

Strategic Sales Relationships 

We maintain alliances with other industry leaders to develop and market technology solutions. These include many major communications hardware and software vendors, operating system suppliers, computer hardware manufacturers, enterprise application providers and cellular carriers. Among others, partners include: AT&#38;T, Bell Mobility, Ericsson, NXP, Qualcomm, Telit, Rogers, Silicon Laboratories, Sprint, Telus, Verizon and several other cellular carriers worldwide. Furthermore, we maintain a worldwide network of authorized developers that extends our reach into certain other technology applications and geographical regions. 

We have established relationships with equipment vendors in a range of industries such as energy, industrial, retail, transportation, medical, and government that allow the vendors to ship our products and services as component parts of their overall solutions. Our products are used by many of the world&#8217;s leading telecommunications companies and Internet service providers, including AT&#38;T Inc., Sprint Corporation and Verizon Communications Inc. 

No single customer comprised more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for any of the years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 or 2014. 

Competition 

We compete primarily in the communications technology industry, which is characterized by rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards. The market can be affected significantly by new product introductions and marketing activities of industry participants. In addition, we may compete with other companies to acquire new businesses or technologies and the competition to secure such assets may be intense. We compete for customers on the basis of existing and planned product features, service and software application capabilities, company reputation, brand recognition, technical support, alliance relationships, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price and availability. While no competitor offers a comparable range of products and services, various companies do compete with us with respect to one or more of our products or solutions. With respect to many of our product and service offerings, we face competition from companies who dedicate more resources and attention to that particular offering than we are able to do given the breadth of our business. As marketplace for IoT connectivity products and solutions continues to grow, we expect to encounter increased competition. Some of these competitors may have access to significantly more financial and technical resources than we possess. 

Manufacturing Operations 

Our manufacturing operations are conducted through a combination of internal manufacturing and external subcontractors specializing in various parts of the manufacturing process. We rely on third party foundries for our semiconductor devices that are Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) and we outsource printed circuit board production. This approach allows us to reduce our fixed costs, maintain production flexibility and optimize our profits. 

Our products are manufactured to our designs with standard and custom components. Most of the components are available from multiple vendors. We have several single-sourced supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous to us. If these suppliers are unable to provide a timely and reliable supply of components, we could experience manufacturing delays that could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations in a material way. 

Seasonality 

In general, our business is not considered to be highly seasonal, although our first fiscal quarter revenue is often less than other quarters due to holidays and fewer shipping days. 

Working Capital 

We fund our business operations through a combination of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations. We believe that our current financial resources, cash generated from operations, and our capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund our business operations for the next twelve months and beyond. 

Research &#38; Development and Intellectual Property Rights 

During fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, our research and development expenditures were $31.0 million, $29.9 million and $28.9 million, respectively. 

Due to rapidly changing technology in the communications technology industry, we believe a large part of our success depends upon the product and service development skills of our personnel as well as our ability to integrate any acquired technologies with organically developed technologies. While we dedicate significant resources to research and development, many of our competitors are focused on a smaller set of products than us and are likely able to dedicate more resources than us toward the portions of the market in which we compete. 

Our proprietary rights and technology are protected by a combination of copyrights, patents, trade secrets and trademarks. 

We have established common law and registered trademark rights on a family of marks for a number of our products. Our products and services primarily are sold under the Digi, Rabbit&#174; and Xbee&#174; brands. We believe that the Digi and Rabbit&#174; brands have established strong identities with our targeted customer base and our customers associate the Digi brand with &#8220;reliability&#8221; and the Rabbit&#174; brand with &#8220;ease of integration.&#8221; We believe that our customers associate Xbee&#174; with &#8220;ease of use.&#8221; Many of our customers choose us because they are building a very complex system solution and they want the highest level in product reliability and ease of integration and use. Our Etherios&#174; brand was sold in connection with the sale of Etherios, Inc. in October 2015. 

Our patents are applicable to specific technologies and are valid for varying periods of time based on the date of patent application or patent grant in the U.S. and the legal term of patents in the various foreign countries where patent protection is obtained. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company and products. 

Backlog 

Backlog as of September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $25.3 million and $27.2 million, respectively. The majority of the backlog at September 30, 2016 is expected to be shipped in fiscal 2017. Backlog as of any particular date is not necessarily indicative of our future sales trends. 

Employees 

We had 515 employees on September 30, 2016. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Geographic Areas and Currency Risks 

Our customers are located throughout North America, Europe, Middle East &#38; Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific and Latin America. We are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk associated with certain sales being denominated in Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen and Canadian Dollar and foreign currency translation risk as the financial position and operating results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidation. We manage our net asset or net liability position for U.S. dollar accounts in our foreign locations to reduce our foreign currency risk. We have not implemented a formal hedging strategy to reduce foreign currency risk. 

During 2016, we had approximately $71.5 million of revenue related to foreign customers including export sales, of which $22.9 million was denominated in foreign currency, predominantly the Euro and British Pound. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, we had approximately $76.2 million and $76.3 million, respectively of revenue to foreign customers including export sales, of which $21.3 million and $23.3 million, respectively, were denominated in foreign currency, predominantly the Euro and British Pound. In future periods, we expect a significant portion of sales will continue to be made in Euros and British Pounds. 

Financial information about geographic areas appears in Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. 

PRINCIPAL HARDWARE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 

Hardware Products 

Cellular routers and gateways - Cellular routers provide connectivity for devices over a cellular data network. They can be used as a cost effective alternative to landlines for primary or backup connectivity for remote locations and devices. These products have been certified by the major wireless providers in North America and abroad, including, among others, AT&#38;T&#174;, Verizon Wireless&#174;, Sprint&#174;, Bell Mobility, Rogers and Vodafone. &#32;&#32; Cellular gateway products enable devices or groups of devices to be networked in locations where there is no existing network or where access to a network is prohibited. All of our cellular products include a unique remote management platform that provides secure management of devices across remote networks and can all use the Device Cloud for remote management. In addition, application connectivity, management and customization are enabled via the Device Cloud platform for many of these products. 

Radio Frequency (RF) - Our RF products are small box or module products that utilize a variety of wireless protocols for PC-to-device or device-to-device connectivity, often in locations where deploying a wired network is not possible either because of cost, disruption or impracticality. By supporting ZigBee&#174;, Wi-Fi&#174; and other radio frequency "RF" technologies, we can meet most customer application requirements. In conjunction with one of our gateways, RF products can be connected into the Device Cloud for remote management, application connectivity and customization. 

Embedded - Our Connect, Rabbit &#174;, and ARM-based embedded systems on module, and single board computers are designed and developed with small footprints, low power consumption and software, making them ideal for medical, transportation and industrial device manufacturers. A number of these modules can be connected directly to the Device Cloud or other similar platforms, enabling remote management and remote application connectivity. Also included in our embedded grouping are our chips (or microprocessors) that provides the &#8220;brains&#8221; and processing power of an intelligent electronic device or communication sub-system. Some of our higher volume customers choose to purchase chips and build their own products. Chips are low cost but require the highest level of development expertise. Chip development is not part of our strategy; instead we use commercial-off-the-shelf technology from companies such as Freescale and Ember for our products. 

Network - Our network product category consists of: 

&#8226; 

Console servers - Our console servers provide a secure remote graphical access to computer systems and network equipment that can communicate with virtually any server or device. 

&#8226; 

Serial servers - Our serial servers (also known as device servers and terminal servers) provide secure, reliable and flexible serial-to-Ethernet integration of most devices into wired Ethernet networks. They are used for a variety of applications such as automation, robotics control, centralized device monitoring and management, data acquisition and point-of-sale applications. 

&#8226; 

USB - Our Universal Serial Bus (USB) solutions include USB-to-serial converters that offer instant I/O expansion for peripheral device connectivity. We also offer USB over IP products that connect USB and serial devices on a wired or wireless LAN, while eliminating the need for locally-attached host PCs. In addition, we also offer multiport USB hubs that offer a simple solution for adding switched USB ports to a PC, server or thin client. 

Services 

Digi Cold Chain Solutions - Our Digi Cold Chain Solutions is an end-to-end, cost-effective system that uses sensors, gateways and a cloud based application to enable customers such as restaurants, groceries and convenience stores to monitor wirelessly the temperature of food and other perishable goods. Our Digi Cold Chain Solutions was introduced as a result of our acquisition of Bluenica Corporation on October 5, 2015 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Our acquisition of FreshTemp, LLC in November 2016 further expands our product suite through the addition of software offerings that help customers track the completion of operating tasks in real-time that may impact health and safety. 

Wireless Design Services - Our Wireless Design Services provide customers turn-key wireless networking product designs, testing, and certification for a wide range of wireless technology platforms and applications. 

Digi Support Services - Our Digi Support Services provides various levels of technical support to customers with programming and implementation challenges related to Digi products. We offer base support up to our highest level of professional support which includes implementation planning, application development, on-site support, installation and customer training. These support services help minimize design risk and ensure optimal performance. 

Digi Device Cloud&#8482; and Digi Remote Manager&#8482; - Our &#32; Digi Device Cloud&#8482; is a platform as-a-service (PaaS) offering that provides a secure environment for customers to aggregate their interaction with a large number of disparate devices and connect them to enterprise applications. This allows for devices to be monitored and controlled remotely and allows customers to collect, interpret and utilize data from many devices to operate their businesses more easily and efficiently. The Digi Remote Manager&#8482; is a complete centralized remote device management solution that is housed on the Digi Device Cloud&#8482; and allows customers to meet service level commitments and stay compliant with Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards. Digi Remote Manager&#8482; also allows customers to monitor, diagnose and fix remote devices without sending a technician on site. 

