 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

DigitalTown is building the leading platform for hosted Smart City Management. Our easy to use tools, make it easier than ever to build and manage a feature-rich Smart City for web and mobile devices for providing residents and visitors with 24/7 access to Content, Community and Commerce.

Market Opportunity 

DigitalTown provides an integrated search, community, and commerce platform for both web and mobile devices. DigitalTown powers connected online communities that enable members of a community to find information, and acquire the goods and services they need locally where possible. The DigitalTown platform changes how the local economy consumes and transacts. It does this by helping local community members to &#147;See the World through local eyes&#148;. Residents and visitors are able to use a DigitalTown powered search engine to access content, community and commerce from an easy search tool. If there are local vendors that can fulfill a product or service that relates to a search term, then these options are presented to the user. Local vendors can also become direct merchants on the platform, effectively allowing the local town to be its own &#34;Amazon&#148;.

The Strategic Importance of Local Online Economic Development 

The DigitalTown platform elevates local communities to an advanced state of technical capability. Whereas most cities have historically taken a hands-off approach towards the Internet, as the Internet becomes as important as roads and bridges, city management must begin to view the Internet as an integral part of their strategic plan for economic wellbeing.

The continued rapid expansion of big box retailers and steep growth of national eCommerce creates increasing pressure on locally owned small businesses. This dual threat requires a new approach to online economic development &#150;one that equips local merchants with the means to compete locally as well as sell nationally.

The rise of big box retail is a well-documented threat to small business. For example, Wal-Mart&#146;s entry into a new market has been found to have a strongly negative effect on existing retailers with supermarkets and discount variety stores the most adversely effected sectors, suffering sales declines of 10 to 40% after Wal-Mart moves in. 

Meanwhile, online consumer spending has risen steadily and is now 10% of sales. National eCommerce leaders such as Amazon.com, Walmart.com, Costco.com and Target.com as well as niche retailers such as eBay and Etsy, are out-competing local merchants by offering 24/7 shopping, competitive pricing and free shipping.

Why the DigitalTown solution makes sense now 

The DigitalTown platform is a cost effective solution for enabling and community to become a smart community, connected to shared content and local commerce. A key enabler for this 

capability is the rapid adoption of SmartPhones that are powered by common frameworks, notably Apple iOS and Android. The result is that nearly every adult is now able to communicate and transact in real-time using their SmartPhone as a proxy of their identity, reputation, preferences and methods of payment. In effect, the SmartPhone has become the Digital Wallet. The massive early success of Uber has proven that the consumer is ready to use their Digital Wallet as a means for interacting and transacting with other members of a digitally connected community. We believe this opportunity is global and goes beyond ride-sharing. The missing ingredient in many cases is the presence of a trusted platform that connects stakeholders. We further believe that our approach which emphasizes public-private partnerships will be enable accelerated adoption particularly in rural communities where trust of technology is lower and yet where economic models are at greatest risk.

How the DigitalTown SmartCity Platform is part of the new SmartWeb 

A core component of the DigitalTown approach is to build branded web destinations that are intuitive to discover. Part of what makes this possible is the emergence of new domain extensions that are descriptive. For example, .CITY routes a visitor to a website about a city and .MENU routes a user to a website about restaurants in that city. Due to management&#146;s long-standing relation with domain registry operators, the Company will seek to bring structure to the emerging landscape of new domain extensions, while at the same time emphasizing distribution of a unified mobile application to work as a digital companion alongside the growing network of direct navigation brands.

The DigitalTown Platform 

DigitalTown platform creates powerful online and mobile communities. We tap into locally relevant news and content in order to keep community members informed and aware. We provide community tools to keep community members connected. We enable commerce and fulfillment in local communities thereby helping residents to buy locally while equipping 

merchants to sell both locally and globally.

Content Search 

The DigitalTown search engine is at the core of the local experience. Whereas most residents may go once or twice per year to the official city site, the DigitalTown-powered search engine is designed for daily use as a preferred homepage for local residents and businesses.

&#160;

Community 

Consumers are already familiar with social networking through applications like Facebook and Twitter. The integrated DigitalTown web service and mobile app make it easy to stay informed, as well as to connect with and communicate with other members of the Leavenworth community. Community members can message, join groups, shop online, make payments, and even have the option of sharing their physical location with other members of the community.

Commerce 

The DigitalTown platform provides merchants with turn-key solutions for online commerce. Approved merchants can begin selling immediately without any setup cost or fixed costs of any kind. Transaction processing services are provided by DigitalTown, thereby eliminating the need for each retailer to secure a merchant processing account. The community may also enable a private currency for use within the community.

Courier Management 

An integrated courier application is included, enabling approved couriers to be notified about items from merchants to be picked up and delivered to the customer, thereby enabling any approved merchant to also offer delivery services to the end-customer.

Administration 

The DigitalTown platform provides integrated administrative tools for managing Content, Community and Commerce, making it easy to administer all aspects of the online economy. The administrative tools are designed from the ground up to be the back end of a smart community. For example, administrators can create Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) that are then intelligently presented through the site search. For example, a question about &#147;Where do I get a fishing license?&#148; can be answered in the form of a pre-written FAQ article. This FAQ article is then intelligently suggested when someone types a fishing-related keyword into the search box on the site, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

EMPLOYEES 

As of February 29, 2016, DigitalTown, Inc. has six employees. The Company&#146;s employees are not represented by a union. 

