 Item 1. Business 

Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We empower people to take action to improve health outcomes. Derived from the world's largest database of clinical lab results, our diagnostic insights reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve health care management. In the right hands and with the right context, our diagnostic insights can inspire actions that transform lives. 

&#32; Quest Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms &#8220;Quest Diagnostics,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

&#160; 

During 2015 , we generated net revenues of $7.5 billion . Additional financial information concerning Quest Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries and businesses, for each of the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; in Part II, Item 8. 

The discussion below includes several tables. The index below is a guide to those tables. 

Index to Tables 

Table 1 - Vision, Goals and Values 

Table 2 - Five Point Business Strategy 

Table 3 - Restore Growth 

Table 4 - Clinical Franchises 

Table 5 - Key Professional Lab Services Offerings 

Table 6 - Invigorate Cost Excellence Program 

Table 7 - Invigorate Cost Excellence Program - Savings 

Table 8 - Acquisition Highlights 

Table 9 - Positioned to Grow and Lead 

Table 10 - Assets and Capabilities 

Table 11 - New or Enhanced Disease Area Solutions 

Table 12 - Sample Collaborations 

Table 13 - 2015 Scientific and Medical 

Table 14 - 2015 Quanum TM Health Information Technology Solutions Introduced 

Table 15 - 2015 Net Revenues 

Table 16 - Sample Esoteric Test Fields 

Table 17 - U.S. Clinical Testing industry 

Table 18 - Key Trends 

Table 19 - Customers 

Table 20 - Sample Third Party Payers 

Table 21 - Factors Traditionally Considered When Selecting a Diagnostic Information Services Provider 

Table 22 - 2015 Medicare and Medicaid Revenues 

Table 23 - Key Regulatory Schemes 

Table 24 - Information Available at Our Corporate Governance Webpage 

Table 25 - Executive Officers 

Table of Contents &#160; 

OUR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS 

In 2012, Quest Diagnostics launched a new vision, goals and strategy. 

Table 1 - Vision, Goals and Values 

Vision 

Empowering Better Health with Diagnostic Insights 

Three Aspirational Goals 

A healthier world 

Build a valuable company 

Create an inspiring workplace 

Values 

Quality 

Integrity 

Accountability 

Innovation 

Collaboration 

Leadership 

Our Strategy &#32;&#32; 

In November 2012, we introduced a five-point business strategy to achieve our vision and our goals. 

Table 2 - Five Point Business Strategy 

1. Restore growth 

2. Drive operational excellence 

3. Simplify the organization 

4. Refocus on diagnostic information services 

5. Deliver disciplined capital deployment 

Since the end of 2013, restoring growth has been our top priority. At our Investor Day in November 2014, we shared progress on our strategy and commitments, reaffirmed our strategy and outlined our path forward. In 2015, we continued to execute on this strategy, consistent with our stated path forward. The discussion below focuses on our five-point strategy and our path forward. 

1. Restore growth. &#32;We are pursuing seven opportunities to restore growth. Three opportunities have a near-term focus; four are longer-term. 

Table 3 - Restore Growth 

Near term focus 

Sales and marketing excellence 

Grow esoteric testing through a disease focus 

Provide professional lab services to hospitals and IDNs 

Longer-term focus 

Lead in precision medicine 

Create value from information assets 

Leverage capabilities into extended care settings 

Succeed internationally 

In 2013, we launched a multi-year initiative, Project Restore, to identify, prioritize, resource and implement a wide range of activities designed to create consistent, profitable growth. The program leverages center-led planning, analytics, project management and best practice teams to improve sales and marketing effectiveness, reduce attrition, launch new solutions, enhance key account relationships, instill pricing discipline, develop impactful marketing and bring lessons learned to local teams across the enterprise. The investments that we have made and our efforts to restore growth have yielded positive results: we have restored growth. Our goal is to achieve and ultimately exceed market growth rates. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Our efforts to foster sales and marketing excellence have progressed. We maintain one commercial organization in our Diagnostic Information Services business, centrally led and focused on local customer needs. We employ world-class management discipline around processes, tools and measurement. We are investing in talent, providing industry-leading training and development, focusing on physician specialty opportunities, and fostering a customer-focused, performance-driven culture. 

We plan to grow esoteric testing revenues by creating value through scientific and product innovation and delivering comprehensive solutions for major clinical opportunities. We are more than just a laboratory; we seek to offer solutions using data information services and strategies that enable our customers to deliver the most effective healthcare to the right populations and individuals. Starting with a clinical focus on a specific disease state or clinical problem, we pursue opportunities to create value by providing holistic solutions centered on evidence-supported standards of care, and to combine routine, guideline mandated testing with esoteric solutions. We take advantage of advanced technology for more precise, comprehensive and actionable information, and integrate our extensive clinical data to help manage populations and target health care solutions. 

Our clinical franchise organizations, working with our research and development team, focus on these opportunities and coordinate with our commercial organization to deliver new and improved solutions. Our franchises are designed to enable us to act like a boutique service provider while maintaining the advantages of our scale, and identify and tap growing market segments so that we more wisely deploy our resources and target opportunities. 

Table 4 - Clinical Franchises 

Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrinology 

Oncology 

General Health and Wellness 

Prescription Drug Monitoring and Toxicology 

Infectious Diseases and Immunology 

Sports Science and Human Performance 

Neurology 

Women&#8217;s and Reproductive Health 

Our 2015 introduction of companion and complementary test services for new anti-PD-1 therapies for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, the 2015 launch of our LeukoVantage TM &#32;solution for myeloid neoplasms and the continued growth of our prescription drug monitoring and infectious diseases and immunology businesses are recent examples of the power of our clinical franchises to deliver new solutions and grow organically. 

We also plan to grow by pursuing strategic partnerships with hospitals and independent delivery networks ("IDNs"). We believe that continued price transparency, cost and utilization pressure, and evolving healthcare payment models will drive demand for our expertise. Our key professional laboratory services offerings are highlighted in Table 5 below. We have announced seven new professional lab services relationships over the past 24 months, including most recently our relationship with Barnabas Health, the largest health care system in New Jersey. 

Table 5 - Key Professional Lab Services Offerings 

Lab management outsourcing 

Data diagnostics, consolidation and insights 

Joint venture 

Reference testing 

Outreach acquisition 

Supply chain management 

Test menu management 

Programs enabling effective patient care management 

2. Drive operational excellence. &#32;&#32;We strive to enhance operational excellence and improve our quality and efficiency across every portion of our value chain, from the time that we receive an order until the time we receive payment, including in our supporting operations. Improving our operations will yield many benefits, including: enhancing customer satisfaction, employee engagement and shareholder value; improving our quality and competitiveness; and strengthening our foundation for growth. 

We have made strong progress driving operational excellence, improving our quality and efficiency and improving our overall customer experience. For example, in 2015 increased adoption of our customer self-service tools reduced demand for 

Table of Contents &#160; 

transactional phone calls. We also deployed new automation and technology platforms in revenue services, laboratory operations and logistics services, improving the customer experience and reducing labor costs. 

Our cost excellence program, Invigorate, includes structured plans to drive savings and improve performance across the end-to-end value chain. We believe that many of these efforts also strengthen our foundation for growth. For example, in 2015 we improved reagent utilization and enhanced our approach to service and maintenance, in each case improving efficiency and reducing cost. 

Table 6 - Invigorate Cost Excellence Program 

Flagship Programs 

Revenue services 

Organizational design 

Information technology 

Procurement 

Laboratory 

Field and customer service 

Additional Key Opportunities Identified in November 2014 

Standardize our processes, information technology systems and business platforms 

Delivering services electronically 

Enhancing cash collection 

The following chart provides information regarding Invigorate program savings. 

Table 7 - Invigorate Cost Excellence Program - Savings 

2012 Goal for run-rate savings exiting 2014 

$600 Million 

2013 Revised goal for run-rate savings exiting 2014 

$700 Million 

2014 Year-end run-rate savings 

Over $700 million 

2014 Goal for additional run-rate savings exiting 2017 

$600 million (cumulative savings total: $1.3 billion) 

2015 Realized savings 

Over $200 million 

3. Simplify and strengthen the organization to enable growth and productivity. &#32;&#32;Starting in 2012, we revised our senior management team and restructured our organization to eliminate silos in our core business, provide leadership in defined geographies and eliminate three unnecessary management layers. Our organization is designed to align around future growth opportunities, to coordinate upstream and downstream units in our business for seamless execution and to leverage our company-wide infrastructure to gain more capability, value and efficiency. We continue to enhance our structure and capabilities to support our strategy. 

We adopted the Quest Management System to manage our Company. This system provides a foundation for day-to-day management, and includes best-in-class business performance tools to help us develop new capabilities to improve our Company. The system, which enables us to run the Company with a common language, approach and philosophy, supports our efforts as we build a high-performance culture, with employees focused on behaviors to make us more agile, transparent, customer-focused, collaborative and performance oriented. 

In 2015, we launched our new brand - Action from Insight - recommitting to a superior customer experience. We also introduced our Everyday Excellence program, which includes guiding principles to support a superior customer experience, to inspire our employees to be their best every day, with every person and with every customer interaction. We continue to simplify and strengthen the organization, and our processes, to better focus on our customers, speed decision-making and to empower employees. 

4. Refocus on diagnostic information services. We have a sharp focus on diagnostic information services. In 2015, we contributed our business of central laboratory testing for clinical trials to a joint venture, Q 2 &#32;Solutions. Since 2012, we also have sold our OralDNA salivary diagnostics business, our HemoCue and Enterix diagnostic products businesses and ibrutinib royalty rights, generating approximately $800 million of proceeds. 

5. Deliver disciplined capital deployment and strategically aligned accretive acquisitions. &#32;We are focused on increasing shareholder returns and returns on invested capital (&#8220;ROIC&#8221;) through a framework that encompasses improving operating performance and disciplined capital deployment. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Our disciplined capital deployment framework includes dividends, share repurchases and investment in our business and is intended to improve ROIC. The framework is grounded in maintaining an investment grade credit rating. We expect to return a majority of our free cash flow to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. In 2015, we returned 80% of our free cash flow to investors. 

Consistent with that expectation, in January 2016 we announced that we increased our quarterly common stock dividend by 5%, from $0.38 per common share to $0.40 per common share. This represents our fifth increase in the dividend since 2011. We also believe that opportunities may arise to return incremental capital to shareholders from free cash flow as a result of portfolio actions. In December 2015, we announced a $500 million increase in repurchase authority under our common stock repurchase program. Since the beginning of 2012, we have returned more than $1.5 billion to stockholders through repurchases of our common stock. 

We will continue to invest in our business in a disciplined manner. We have established a solid foundation of strategic assets and capabilities. We expect to generate 1 to 2 percent revenue growth per year through value-creating, strategically-aligned acquisitions using disciplined investment criteria. We screen potential acquisitions using guidelines that assess strategic fit and financial considerations, including value creation, ROIC and impact on our earnings. 

Table 8 - Acquisition Highlights 

2015 Closed Acquisitions 

&#8226; MemorialCare Health System outreach laboratory testing business 

&#8226; Superior Mobile Medics, a national provider of paramedical and health data collection services to the life insurance and employer health and wellness industries 

2015 Announced Acquisitions 

&#8226; Clinical Laboratory Partners (subsidiary of Hartford HealthCare) outreach laboratory testing business 

Our additional near-term investments in growth are likely to focus on investments in innovation in the form of licensing, collaborations and internal development to grow esoteric testing, tools to support commercial excellence and Project Restore. We also expect to make investments to improve operational excellence, with systems standardization and automation, footprint optimization and our Invigorate cost excellence program as potential examples. 

Our Strengths 

We offer high value diagnostic information services and diagnostic solutions, including those grounded in pathology and gene-based and esoteric testing, that are attractive to our customers (discussed under the heading Customers &#32;on page 18). We believe that our customers prefer providers that offer a comprehensive and innovative range of tests and services and convenient access to those services. We believe that, by offering such services, we strengthen our market offering, market position and reputation. Table 9 summarizes our strengths, which are discussed in greater detail below. 

Table 9 - Positioned to Grow and Continue to Lead 

&#8226; Unmatched size, scale and capabilities 

&#8226; High value, low cost provider experience 

&#8226; Leader in providing innovative solutions and diagnostic insights 

&#8226; Strong focus on quality and providing a superior customer experience 

&#8226; Strong collaborator 

&#8226; Medical and scientific expertise 

Our assets and capabilities. &#32;&#32;We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We estimate that we have access to more than 20 billion patient data points from tests over the past decade. We are the leading provider in the United States of routine and gene-based and esoteric testing services, including anatomic pathology. We serve approximately one-third of the adult population of the United States annually, and approximately one-half of the adult population in the United States over a three-year period. We estimate that annually we serve approximately half of the physicians and half of the hospitals in the United States. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Table 10 - Assets and Capabilities 

&#8226; Provide healthcare connectivity solutions to &#62;250,000 clinician and hospital accounts 

&#8226; 157 million test requisitions processed in 2015 

&#8226; Strong logistics capabilities 

&#8226; make &#62; 7,500 stops daily 

&#8226; approximately 3,500 courier vehicles 

&#8226; &#160;&#62; 25 aircraft serving the U.S. 

&#8226; One of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry to provide interpretive consultation 

&#8226; &#160;&#62; 650 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field 

&#8226; genetic counselors 

&#8226; Mobile teams to support different business initiatives 

&#8226; paramedical examiners 

&#8226; health and wellness professionals, including nursing professionals 

&#8226; National access to patient testing, with most extensive network in the U.S.: 

&#8226; &#160;&#62;2,300 of our own patient service centers 

&#8226; &#160;&#62;4,200 phlebotomists in physician offices 

&#8226; Industry-leading test menu 

&#8226; Access to &#62;20 billion patient data points from test results delivered over past decade 

Innovation. &#32;&#32;We are a leading innovator in diagnostic information services. We continue to introduce new tests and services, including many with a focus on personalized and targeted medicine. Our capabilities include discovery, technology development and clinical validation of diagnostic tests. We develop tests at our laboratories, such as Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute and Athena Diagnostics. 

We successfully transfer technical innovations to the market through our in-house expertise and our relationships with technology developers, including the academic community, pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, emerging medical technology companies and others that develop and commercialize novel diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies. We search for new opportunities and continue to build a robust pipeline of new solutions. Through our strengths in assay development and the commercialization of test services, we believe that we are the partner of choice for developers of new technologies and tests to introduce their products to the marketplace. 

We seek innovations and solutions that help healthcare providers care for their patients through better testing for predisposition, screening, monitoring, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices. We seek to develop innovations and solutions that help to determine a patient's genotype or gene expression profile relative to a particular disease and its potential therapies, because they can help healthcare providers to determine a patient's susceptibility to disease or to tailor medical care to an individual's needs - such as determining if a medication might be an optimum choice for a particular person, or tailoring the right dosage once the proper medicine is prescribed. In addition, we aim to develop holistic solutions responsive to challenges that healthcare providers and patients face, by developing solutions of multiple tests, information and services focused on specific clinical challenges, and taking advantage of the latest informatics capabilities. We also look for innovations and solutions that are less invasive than currently available options, to increase the choices that healthcare providers and patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. 

We have expertise with laboratory developed tests for companion and complementary diagnostics, and can offer an array of assets and services to support the development of companion diagnostics, including our robust collection of laboratory data and access to the company's patient service centers. 

&#160; 

Table of Contents &#160; 

With these priorities in mind, during 2015 we introduced over 20 new or enhanced disease area solutions, including those discussed below. 

Table 11 - New or Enhanced Disease Area Solutions 

Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrinology 

We continued to expand our CardioIQ &#174; advanced cardiovascular testing menu with the addition of MPO (myeloperoxidase), an inflammation marker. MPO complements the other inflammation markers that are part of the CardioIQ &#174; suite, providing additional insights into disease activity in the artery wall. 

We introduced a new risk panel (an advanced lipid panel with inflammation) that combines 6 important biomarkers (lipid panel, lipid subfractionation by ion mobility, apoB, Lp(a), hsCRP and Lp-PLA2) to provide a more comprehensive risk assessment for heart attack and stroke. 

We developed and released a test for Zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8) Antibody. This test is primarily used for children and adolescents to confirm a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. 

We developed and released a test for Intact Insulin by mass spectrometry. This test is useful for measuring fasting insulin levels and can be used to assess insulin resistance in diabetic patients. 

General Health and Wellness 

We made our innovative, proprietary Wellness Engine application available to our customers. The Wellness Engine provides access to our wellness screening, reporting and incentive management solutions and offers: 

&#8226; Greater customization of program elements to meet the needs of diverse populations; 

&#8226; Simpler, intuitive participant experience that promotes greater engagement; and 

&#8226; Fully integrated data, regardless of collection site or type, to provide more powerful, actionable insights. 

Infectious Diseases and Immunology 

We launched automatic performance of molecular testing on all patient specimens whose antibody screening results indicate hepatitis C virus infection, and removed standalone antibody screening as a test option. This change eliminated the prospect that a patient may receive a positive screening result but fail to undergo additional molecular testing, as recommended by medical guidelines, to help confirm a diagnosis of active hepatitis C infection, the cause of chronic hepatitis C. 

We developed and introduced a test for HIV-1 RNA, Quantitative Real-Time PCR with reflex to Coreceptor Tropism. This test may be used to determine whether a patient's viral HIV-1 load is sufficient to perform the HIV-1 RNA tropism test. 

We developed the Helicobacter pylori, Culture with Reflex to Susceptibility assay. Helicobacter pylori has been associated with peptic ulcer disease and cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. 

We developed a rapid identification test for Leptospirois, an infection caused by a waterborne spirochete of the genus Leptospira. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Neurology 

We introduced the first personalized genetic diagnostic test of the entire human genome in partnership with Personalis, Inc., to specifically help diagnose neurological disorders. 

We launched a series of new advanced sequencing molecular tests to more reliably and quickly diagnose hundreds of clinically relevant genetic causes of muscular dystrophies and myopathies in adults and children. These tests help avoid painful muscle biopsies that, in the past, were the only means to diagnose patients with muscle weakness. 

&#160; 

We launched advanced sequencing molecular tests to test for hundreds of genetic causes of rare, progressive movement disorders called hereditary ataxias, which affect movement of the legs and hands, and speech and eye movements. Patients benefit from a molecular diagnosis by eliminating the need for further testing and identifying a basis for therapies to extend mobility and life. 

We also launched advanced sequencing molecular tests to test for hundreds of genetic causes of rare, progressive movement disorders called hereditary spastic paraplegias, which are characterized by a slowly progressive stiffness and weakness of the legs. The diagnosis guides physicians in the use of medications to reduce muscle tightness. 

Oncology 

We introduced LeukoVantage TM , a genomic test service that aids in the diagnosis, prognosis monitoring and selection of treatment for myeloid neoplasms, a group of hematologic malignancies that include acute myeloid leukemia. 

&#160; 

We introduced access to a companion test service for a new anti-PD-1 therapy for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer developed by Merck and a complementary test service for a new anti-PD-1 therapy for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb. 

We introduced a prognostic panel including new probes to aid physicians in treating patients with plasma cell myeloma. 

Prescription Drug Monitoring and Toxicology 

We introduced a quantitative test for buprenorphine and naloxone. Patients treated with buprenorphine-naloxone co-formulation will demonstrate both naloxone and buprenorphine/norbuprenorphine drug analysis. Naloxone is not detected with buprenorphine-only use. 

Sports Science and Human Performance 

The New York Football Giants began using Blueprint for Athletes TM as a major factor in the Giants' training and preparation for National Football League games. 

We conducted beta programs at select elite endurance events using the Blueprint for Athletes TM service to empower athletes to track their progress from the onset of training through the event. 

Women&#8217;s and Reproductive Health 

We introduced QNatal Advanced TM , a new noninvasive prenatal screening service for detecting chromosomal abnormalities in certain high-risk pregnancies. 

We enhanced our HPV offerings with five new tests. One assay is used in connection with cytology to assess the presence or absence of high risk HPV genotypes 16, 18 and/or 45. This information together with physician's assessment of cytology history, other risk factors and professional guidelines may be used to guide patient treatment. The second assay is used in conjunction with cytology to evaluate anal dysplasia. The other three are used in combination with cytology, cytology history and other risk factors in aiding the diagnosis of vaginal cancer. 

Collaboration . We collaborate with partners that can help us to achieve our vision of empowering better health through diagnostic insights. Through our relationships, we believe that we are a leader in bringing innovation to the market. As the industry leader with the largest and broadest U.S. network and a presence outside the United States, we believe we are the distribution channel of choice for developers of new solutions, including large commercial manufacturers, academic medical centers and pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, to introduce their products to the marketplace. We maintain relationships with advisers and consultants who are leaders in key fields of science and medicine. We work with key groups and organizations, including world class healthcare leaders, to foster important advances in healthcare, including in precision medicine. Some examples of our collaborations include: 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Table 12 - Sample Collaborations 

Collaborator 

Collaboration 

Inovalon 

Data Diagnostics TM , a tool that provides real-time patient-specific data analysis that clinicians can order at the point of care to identify and address gaps in quality, risk, utilization and medical history insights. 

Inserm, the French National 

Institute of Health and 

Medical Research 

BRCA Share TM a novel data share initiative to provide scientists and laboratory organizations around the world with open access to BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic data. 

Perinatal Quality Foundation 

The national initiative to advance clinically appropriate noninvasive prenatal screening. 

University of California, San Francisco, the nation's leading university focused exclusively on health 

To accelerate the translation of biomedical research into advanced diagnostics in the field of precision medicine. This collaboration has the overarching aim of enabling holistic and integrated diagnostic solutions that close gaps in care or enable new clinical value, with initial focus areas including autism, oncology, neurology and women's health. 

U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") 

To improve public health analysis of hepatitis C screening, diagnosis and treatment, based on analysis of our database of national hepatitis C virus ("HCV") diagnostic information. 

National Institutes of Health 

We participate in studies they sponsor (e.g., NIH National Children Study). 

Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 

Our OncoVantage TM solid tumor mutation testing services. 

Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc. 

Joint venture to provide central laboratory testing services for clinical trials. 

Medical and Scientific Expertise . Our medical and scientific experts publish research that demonstrates the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing, including in connection with our research and development efforts. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing Index TM , which is a periodic report of trends derived from our aggregate drug testing results, is cited by employers, the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse among the nation's workforce. The table below provides a further sample of the activities of our scientific and medical experts. 

Table 13 - 2015 Medical and Scientific 

Authored more than 150 publications, including approximately 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals 

&#8226; Insights into diagnostic testing; introduce novel diagnostic approaches; provide latest thinking in lab testing and disease diagnosis 

&#160;- Addressed such topics as cervical cancer screening, ion mobility testing and cardiovascular disease, genetic testing for breast cancer risk and non-invasive prenatal testing. 

Authored textbooks or chapters 

&#8226; Used by academic institutions to train healthcare providers 

Participated on scientific committees determining guidelines for diagnostic usage 

&#8226; Fields include HIV, HCV and testosterone testing 

Published Quest Diagnostics Health Trends TM reports 

&#8226; Identify trends in disease and wellness. 

&#160;- Recent reports focused on prescription drug misuse, cervical disease and diabetes 

&#32; Health Information Technology Solutions . We have a history of providing leading information technology for diagnostic information services, including solutions that help healthcare organizations and clinicians enter, share and access clinical information without costly information technology implementation or significant workflow disruption, and technology solutions to enable patients to manage their healthcare and medical information. Examples of this include our Care360 &#174; &#32;products, national Care 360 &#174; &#32;healthcare provider network and MyQuest &#174; &#32;by Care360 &#174; &#32;patient healthcare portal, which allows 

Table of Contents &#160; 

patients to, among other things, use their smartphone or computer to receive and archive their Quest Diagnostics test results, manage their personal health information, find a Quest Diagnostics location and schedule appointments. We were the first national diagnostic information services provider to offer patient appointment scheduling and a patient mobile application. 

We also have significant information assets, including many years of test result data. Our Quanum TM health information technology solutions leverage the power of our information assets, and our technology prowess, to help our customers empower better health through diagnostic insights. In 2015 we unveiled several new solutions, including: 

Table 14 - 2015 Quanum TM Health Information Technology Solutions Introduced 

Data Diagnostics TM 

A tool, introduced with Inovalon, that provides real-time patient-specific data analysis that clinicians can order at the point of care to identify and address gaps in quality, risk, utilization and medical history insights. 

Interactive Insights TM &#160; 

by Care360 &#174; 

A web-based reporting solution for clinicians and patients that provides health insights based on a patient's lab data to improve decision-making by both the clinician and the patient. 

IntelliTest Analytics TM 

A web-based secure portal that provides hospitals, IDNs and clinician practices with data-driven insights about test utilization patterns and business analysis of clinically appropriate testing norms, payer type and costs. 

Care360 Revenue Cycle Management 

A holistic medical billing solution that aids the management of billing claims with a focus on increasing patient and payer collections. The latest offering in the Care360 product portfolio. 

Quality . We strive to provide the highest quality possible and, to meet that goal, we have adopted the Quest Diagnostics Quality Program. This program includes policies and procedures that document, measure and monitor the effectiveness of our laboratory operations in providing and improving quality and meeting the requirements of the agencies that regulate the U.S. clinical laboratory testing industry. 

We use the Quest Management System, including standard frameworks and methodologies for project and change management, to manage our Company. This system not only provides a foundation for day-to-day management, including best-in-class business performance tools, but also helps us to develop the capabilities that we need to manage the Company. We have a culture of continuous improvement. Employing root cause analysis, process improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring, we seek to enhance quality, continuously reduce defects, streamline processes, further increase the efficacy and efficiency of our operations and processes, eliminate waste and help standardize operations across our Company. We use Hoshin management principles in our efforts to achieve breakthrough performance. We use customer insights in our solutions development, listening to the voice of internal and external customers in all our business processes. 

Customer focus. The customer is at the center of everything we do. Customers have a choice when it comes to selecting a healthcare provider and we strive to give them reason to put their trust in us. Focusing on a thorough understanding of customer needs and requirements, we seek to identify and implement processes that will result in a superior customer experience. We strive to provide a superior customer experience for our customers, because we believe that this will drive customer loyalty. In 2015, we launched our new brand - Action from Insight - recommitting to a superior customer experience. We also introduced our Everyday Excellence program, which includes guiding principles to support a superior customer experience, to inspire our employees to be their best every day, with every person and with every customer interaction. 

BUSINESS OPERATIONS 

The Company is made up of two businesses: Diagnostic Information Services and Diagnostic Solutions. The Company provides insights that empower and enable a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, IDNs, health plans, employers and accountable care organizations ("ACOs"). 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Our Diagnostic Information Services business develops and delivers diagnostic testing information and services. The value creation side of the business is organized by clinical franchise and focuses on customer solutions for the marketplace, including new test development, diagnostic insights and product marketing. The value delivery side includes sales, marketing, routine and esoteric laboratory operations, field operations, logistics and client services. Diagnostic Solutions includes our risk assessment services, diagnostic products and healthcare information technology businesses and, prior to its July 1, 2015 contribution to our joint venture, Q 2 &#32;Solutions, our business providing central laboratory testing for clinical trials. 

Our Diagnostics Information Services business is the leading provider of diagnostic information services, which includes providing clinical testing services such as routine (including drugs-of-abuse) testing, gene-based and esoteric testing, and anatomic pathology services, as well as related services and insights. We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, Company-owned patient service centers, phlebotomists in physician offices. We provide interpretive consultation through one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. 

In our Diagnostic Solutions group, we offer a variety of solutions for insurers and healthcare providers. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust health information technology solutions and diagnostic products. 

&#160; 

We leverage our capabilities and assets to serve multiple customer bases. Most of our services are provided in the United States. For each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we derived approximately 2% of our net revenues from foreign operations. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 1% of our long-lived assets were held outside the United States. The following table shows the percentage of our 2015 net revenues generated by the activities identified. 

Table 15 - 2015 Net Revenues 

Activity 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Approximate Percentage 

of 2015 Net Revenues 

Diagnostic information services 

&#160; 

Routine clinical testing services 

&#160; 

Gene-based, esoteric and anatomic pathology testing services 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Diagnostic Solutions: Healthcare information technology, clinical trials testing, risk assessment services and diagnostic products* 

&#160; 

*Includes clinical trials testing revenue until July 1, 2015, when we contributed our clinical trials business to Q 2 &#32;Solutions. 

Diagnostic Information Services 

Background - clinical testing. &#32; 

Clinical testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services. Clinicians use clinical testing for predisposition, screening, monitoring, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices of diseases and other medical conditions. Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. 

&#32; Clinical laboratory testing generally is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids, such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Clinical laboratory tests which can be performed by most clinical laboratories are considered routine. Routine testing measures various important bodily health parameters such as the functions of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests include blood chemistries, urinalysis, allergy tests and complete blood cell counts. 

Esoteric tests are more advanced clinical laboratory tests that are not routine. Esoteric tests include procedures in the areas of molecular diagnostics (including next-generation sequencing), protein chemistry, cellular immunology and advanced microbiology. These tests may require professional &#8220;hands-on&#8221; attention from highly-skilled technical personnel, generally require more sophisticated technology, equipment or materials and may be performed less frequently than routine tests. Consequently, esoteric tests generally are reimbursed at higher levels than routine tests. It is not practical, from a cost-effectiveness or infrastructure perspective, for most hospitals, IDNs, ACOs, commercial laboratories or physician office 

Table of Contents &#160; 

laboratories to develop and perform a broad menu of esoteric tests, or to perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house. Such tests generally are outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory, which specializes in performing these complex tests. Commonly ordered esoteric tests include viral and bacterial detection tests, drug therapy monitoring tests, gene-based tests, autoimmune panels and complex cancer evaluations. Esoteric tests increasingly are ordered by physicians to assist them in the diagnostic process, to establish a prognosis and to choose or monitor a therapeutic regimen. 

Anatomic pathology services are performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells. Anatomic pathology involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical conditions through examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients. 

Our services. 

We are the world's largest provider of diagnostic information services. We provide information and insights based on clinical testing, including routine, esoteric, gene-based and anatomic pathology testing, and related services. Increasingly, we are focused on providing solutions and insights to our customers, based on the testing that we perform and our extensive information and connectivity assets. 

We are the leading provider of routine, esoteric and gene-based and anatomic pathology testing in the world, and offer customers the broadest access to the most extensive test menu. We are a leading provider of infectious disease diagnostic information services and strive to be the first to provide diagnostic solutions for emerging infectious diseases, including our Focus Diagnostics &#174; offerings for West Nile Virus, SARS and Influenza A H1N1. We have leading positions in the neurology diagnostics market, in advanced cardiovascular diagnostic information services, including our CardioIQ &#174; &#32;offering, and in cancer diagnostics, including the BRCAVantage &#174; , OncoVantage &#174; &#32;and ColoVantage &#174; &#32;offerings. We are a leader in providing testing for the detection of employee use of drugs of abuse, offering a full range of solutions, including urine, hair, blood and oral fluid tests. 

We also are a leading provider of biometric wellness screenings, flu shots and related preventative services that leverage clinical data to improve population health outcomes and reduce healthcare spend. We offer biometric wellness screenings to employer populations through our patient service centers and on-site through our extensive network of mobile examiners and nurses. In addition to a wide range of screening options, we also offer Blueprint for Wellness &#174; &#32;and private label reporting, analytics and incentive management services. These services are sold directly to employers and through reseller partnerships with many health plans 

We have significant information assets, including many years of test result data, and we are focused on ways to leverage the full power of these assets to help our customers. We also have a history of providing leading information technology for diagnostic information services. To help our customers empower better health through diagnostic insights by taking advantage of our information assets and technology prowess, we offer Quanum TM &#32;health information technology solutions. We believe that our Quanum TM &#32;solutions, including those introduced in 2015 and listed in Table 14 on page 10, promote our strategy, enhance the value we provide to our customers and will result in increased customer loyalty. We are working on health information technology solutions designed to: 

&#8226; 

enhance the customer experience, including ease of use and patient and provider engagement; 

&#8226; 

deliver more precise, comprehensive solutions and actionable information; 

&#8226; 

provide increased and interactive insights and analytics to patients and providers; 

&#8226; 

foster greater adherence to clinical and reimbursement guidelines; 

&#8226; 

promote population health solutions; 

&#8226; 

tap the potential of large amounts of clinical information; and 

&#8226; 

advance the development of precision medicine. 

We believe that offering services, solutions and insights based on a full range of tests and information assets will strengthen our market offering, market position and reputation. Our experienced medical staff has a passion for providing the highest quality service to our customers. Our in-house experts, including medical directors, scientific directors, genetic counselors and board certified geneticists, provide medical and scientific consultation regarding our tests and test results, and help clinicians and others best utilize these tests to improve patient outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction. Our approach fosters personalized patient care. 

&#32;We have built advanced testing capabilities, including gene-based testing services for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of cancers and other diseases. We provide integrated, comprehensive diagnostic information services 

Table of Contents &#160; 

that include both anatomic pathology and clinical pathology testing, enabling our pathologists to offer patients and clinicians a complete analysis. We offer hundreds of esoteric tests, including but not limited to the following fields: 

Table 16 - Sample Esoteric Test Fields 

Field 

Study/Focus Area 

Endocrinology and metabolism 

Hormones and their effects on body growth and metabolism 

Genetics 

Chromosomes, genes and their expression 

Hematology 

Blood and bone marrow cells 

Coagulation 

Process of blood clotting 

Neurology 

Nervous system, its structure and its diseases 

Immunology 

Immune system, including antibodies, cytokines, immune system cells and their effect, receptor systems and autoimmune diseases 

Microbiology and infectious diseases 

Microscopic forms of life, including parasites, bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents 

Oncology 

Abnormal cell growth, including pre-cancerous conditions and cancer 

Serology 

Body fluids and their analysis, including antibodies, proteins and other characteristics 

Toxicology 

Chemicals and drugs and their intended and adverse effects on the body 

We provide our services through our nationwide network of major laboratories, anatomic pathology laboratories and rapid response laboratories. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require rapid turnaround times. We conduct esoteric testing, including molecular diagnostics, in our world renowned Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute laboratory facilities and in other facilities, including Focus Diagnostics and Athena Diagnostics. We operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We also provide routine testing services, and inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services, at hospital laboratories. 

Our services primarily are provided under the Quest Diagnostics brand, but we also provide services under the AmeriPath, &#174; &#32;Dermpath Diagnostics, &#174; &#32;Focus Diagnostics, &#174; &#32;Athena Diagnostics, &#174; &#32;ExamOne, &#174; &#32;Solstas &#174; &#32;and Summit Health &#174; &#32;brands. 

International. 

We provide diagnostic information services in multiple markets outside the United States. We have laboratory facilities in Gurgaon, India; Mexico City, Mexico; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in diagnostic information services to markets outside the United States, including by leveraging existing facilities to serve new markets. 

Diagnostic Solutions 

Risk Assessment Services. &#32; 

ExamOne is the largest provider of risk assessment services to the life insurance industry in North America. We also provide risk assessment services for insurance companies operating outside North America. 

Our risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services, including data gathering, paramedical examinations and clinical laboratory testing and analytics, designed to assist life insurance companies objectively to evaluate the mortality risks of applicants. Most specimen collections and paramedical examinations are performed by our network of paramedical examiners at the applicant's home or workplace, but they also are offered at approximately 600 company patient service centers in the United States and approximately 120 additional locations in North America. We also contract with third parties to coordinate providing these exams at more than 350 additional locations outside North America. In 2015, ExamOne enhanced its service offering when it acquired the assets of Superior Mobile Medics, a national provider of paramedical and health data collection services to the life insurance, employer health and wellness industries. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Diagnostic Products. &#32;&#32;&#32; 

&#32;Our diagnostic products business develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic products which can be used on a variety of instrument platforms that enable healthcare professionals to make healthcare diagnoses. We offer these products to a broad spectrum of customers in the United States and, through distributors, in other countries. 

Healthcare Information Technology. &#32; 

&#32;&#32;Our Care360 &#174; EHR product allows clinicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician's workflow, and allows for rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The solution allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient encounter notes and allows for patient communication via a patient portal. It captures lab and radiology results, provides clinical decision support tools and allows doctors to send secure messages and clinical information to other practitioners and secure laboratory results to patients' personal health records. 

ChartMaxx &#174; &#32;is our enterprise content management system for hospitals. Clients have contracted for its use at over 250 sites in North America to enable clinical and business workflows. 

Interest in Joint Venture 

In 2015, we contributed our business of central laboratory testing for clinical trials to a joint venture, Q 2 &#32;Solutions. Q 2 &#32;Solutions is the second largest central laboratory services company in the world and provides services to customers across all segments of the biopharmaceutical industry. Clinical laboratory services are central to advances in genomics, precision medicine and drug development. 

Non-Commercial, Development State Drug Asset 

The Company has an interest in a non-commercial, development state drug asset: an agreement with Merck &#38; Co., Inc. under which Merck has a license to our intellectual property for the development of, among other things, small molecule inhibitors of cathepsin K. We do not control the development activities conducted by Merck. Merck may not successfully develop or commercialize any compounds covered by the agreement, may not obtain needed regulatory approvals, and may not sell any products that would generate royalty payments to us, and we may not receive any further payments under this agreement. We are entitled to receive future milestone payments based on development progress for each potential product under the agreement. We are also entitled to receive single digit royalty payments from the sale of drugs, if any, resulting from the program. The obligation to pay royalties generally coincides with the life of the underlying patents. The Company is evaluating options with respect to this asset. 

THE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING INDUSTRY 

&#32;The U.S. clinical testing industry consists of two segments. The following table discusses how we believe the industry is structured. 

Table 17 - U.S. Clinical Testing Industry 

Testing 

Approximate % of Total Industry 

&#8226; Hospital inpatient and outpatient testing 

40% 

&#8226; Testing of persons who are not hospital patients, including testing done in commercial clinical laboratories, physician-office laboratories and other locations, as well as hospital outreach (non-hospital patients) testing 

60% 

Consists of approximately: 

35% - hospital-affiliated laboratories 

53% - commercial clinical laboratories 

Balance - physician-office laboratories and other locations 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Key Trends 

The healthcare system in the United States is evolving; significant change is taking place in the system. We expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. There are a number of key trends that are having, and that we expect will continue to have, a significant impact on the diagnostic information services business in the United States and on our business. These trends present both opportunities and risks. However, because diagnostic information service is an essential healthcare service and because of the key trends discussed below, we believe that the industry will continue to grow over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry. 

&#160; 

Table 18 - Key Trends 

Demographics 

As the population continues to grow and age, the burden of chronic diseases and unmet diagnostic needs may increase the demand for diagnostic information services. 

Prevention and wellness 

We believe that the value of detection, prevention, wellness and personalized care now is well recognized. Consumers, employers, ACOs, IDNs, health plans and government agencies increasingly focus on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at risk and providing preventive insight and care that helps avoid disease. 

Health care providers increasingly rely on diagnostic information services to help identify risk for a disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice of therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment results. 

There is increased focus on a disease-oriented approach to diagnostics, treatment and management. Health care providers, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of diagnostic information services as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment. 

Medical innovation 

Medical advances allow for more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. 

Continuing advances in genomics and proteomics are expected to yield new, more sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests. These advances also are spurring interest in and demand for precision medicine, which relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing and in which data information services and strategies are used to deliver the most effective healthcare to the right populations and individuals. 

Pharmacogenomic testing increasingly is used as a parameter to help speed drug approval processes and to better focus therapy based on patient and tumor-specific genetic markers. 

Demand also is growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that serve patients, payers and health care providers by improving clinical decision support, access to patient data, increasing patient participation in care management, population health management and improving clinical outcomes. 

There is increasing focus on access to patient data and data-driven insights. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Customers and payers 

Our customers and payers, including clinicians, health plans, IDNs, ACOs, employers and others, have been consolidating, converging and diversifying. For example, an increased number of hospital systems are considering establishing or have established health insurance plans, and health insurance plans increasingly are considering providing or are providing healthcare services. 

Consolidation is increasing pricing transparency and bargaining power, and encouraging internalization of clinical testing. 

Physicians increasingly are employed by hospital systems, IDNs, ACOs or large group practices integrated with healthcare systems, instead of organizing physician-owned practices, which is changing the dynamics for whether clinical testing is performed in or outside of a hospital. Physicians and other clinicians also increasingly are being employed by health plans or their affiliates. 

Value-based reimbursement is contributing to changes in the healthcare system. ACOs and patient-centered medical homes are growing as a means to deliver patient care. Health care services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers (e.g., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues (e.g., retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies (e.g., telemedicine). 

In addition, federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 is resulting in changes in the way that some healthcare services are purchased and delivered in the United States. 

Patients are also our customers. Increasingly, patients are engaged in their own healthcare and are bearing responsibility for payment for the services that we provide to them. 

Pricing transparency 

There has been a trend toward greater pricing transparency in the healthcare marketplace. 

This transparency, combined with increased patient financial responsibility for medical care, is enhancing purchasing sophistication and changes in behavior in the health care marketplace. 

Competition 

The clinical testing industry remains fragmented, is highly competitive and is subject to new competition. 

Competition is growing from non-traditional competitors. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. 

New industry entrants with extensive resources may make acquisitions or expand into our traditional areas of operations. 

Reimbursement pressure 

There is a strong focus in the United States on controlling the overall cost of healthcare. 

Healthcare market participants, including governments, are focusing on controlling costs, including potentially by changing reimbursement for healthcare services (including but not limited to a shift from fee for service to capitation), changing medical coverage policies (e.g., healthcare benefits design), pre-authorization of lab testing, requiring co-pays, introducing lab spend management utilities and payment and patient care innovations such as ACOs and patient-centered medical homes. 

In light of continued pressure to reduce systemic healthcare costs, hospitals may change their approach to providing clinical testing services. 

While pressure to control healthcare costs poses a risk to our Company, it also creates opportunities, such as an opportunity for increased proper utilization of testing as an efficient means to manage the total cost of healthcare. We believe that it also creates greater opportunities for high value, low-cost providers, like our Company, as compared to other providers. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Healthcare utilization 

In the past few years, healthcare utilization in the United States has fluctuated based on a number of factors. These factors include, without limitation, the economy, healthcare benefits design, patients delaying medical care and increased patient financial responsibility for medical care. 

However, federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 contained provisions eliminating patient cost-sharing for preventive services, and additional provisions that we believe have increased the number of patients that have health insurance, including Medicaid, and thus better access to diagnostic testing. 

Legislative, regulatory and policy environment 

Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing; healthcare payment reform is a top issue. 

In 2015, the President of the United States launched the Precision Medicine Initiative to improve health and treat disease. The Initiative is expected to pioneer a new model of patient-powered research that promises to accelerate biomedical discoveries and provide clinicians with new tools, knowledge and therapies to select which treatments will work best for patients. 

Pursuant to the federal Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, it is expected that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;) will revise reimbursement schedules for clinical laboratory testing services provided under Medicare. 

The FDA has announced guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of laboratory-developed tests ("LDTs"). 

Federal healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 has created significant uncertainty as healthcare markets react to changes. For example, more than half of the states have opted in to Medicaid expansion and employers may discontinue offering group health insurance to their employees, shifting more people to exchange products. 

Globalization 

There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries. 

Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the healthcare systems outside the United States. 

Demographic changes globally also may create opportunities. 

Informatics 

The increased availability of healthcare data, including data made available as a result of next generation DNA sequencing, and the increased ability to effectively analyze that data at population and patient levels, is impacting healthcare practices. It is anticipated that the increased use of data in healthcare will help to improve patient outcomes and reduce overall healthcare costs. 

Informatics, including integrated diagnostic and decision support solutions, use of population data and healthcare information technology, is spurring advances in precision medicine, including medical decision making and value, for populations and individuals. 

Healthcare market participants, including pharmaceutical companies, health plans, clinicians, ACOs and hospitals, are striving to leverage interoperability, informatics and analytics to positively influence the health of patient populations. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Customers &#32;&#32; 

We provide diagnostic information services to a broad range of customers, including those discussed below. 

Table 19 - Customers 

Health plans including managed care organizations and other health insurance providers 

These customers typically reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of their members. In certain locations, health plans may delegate to independent physician associations (&#8220;IPAs&#8221;) or other alternative delivery systems (e.g., physician hospital organizations, ACOs, patient-centered medical homes) the ability to negotiate for diagnostic information services on behalf of certain members. 

Health plans and IPAs often require that diagnostic information services providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing such services through capitated payment arrangements. Under capitated payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number or cost of services provided by us. Reimbursement under programs that do not provide for capitated payments is typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis. 

Reimbursement from our five largest health plans totaled less than 20%, and no one health plan accounted for 10%, of our consolidated net revenues in 2015. Health plans typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of diagnostic information services providers, and represent approximately one-half of our total clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from diagnostic information services. There has been a trend of consolidation among health plans. Health plans also are narrowing their provider networks. 

We are also sometimes a member of a &#8220;complementary network.&#8221; A complementary network generally is a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of its customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network. 

We attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the volume of our services for their members by offering to health plans services and programs that leverage our Company's expertise and resources, including our superior access, extensive test menu, medical staff, data, IT solutions, and wellness and disease management capabilities. 

Clinicians 

Clinicians, including both primary care physicians and specialists, requiring diagnostic information services for patients are the primary referral source of our services. 

Clinicians determine which laboratory to recommend or use based on a variety of factors, including those set forth in Table 21 on page 21. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Hospitals 

We believe that we are the industry's leader in servicing hospitals. We provide services to hospitals throughout the United States, including esoteric testing services, in some cases helping manage their laboratories and serving as the medical directors of the hospital's histology or clinical laboratory, including through our Professional Laboratory Services offerings. 

Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform the significant majority of clinical testing for their patients and refer esoteric testing to outside service providers, which typically charge the hospitals on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. Fee schedules for hospital reference testing services often are negotiated on behalf of hospitals by group purchasing organizations. 

Hospitals also provide outreach testing, and historically were able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health plans than commercial clinical laboratories for comparable services. They may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians by encouraging the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer outreach testing to the hospital's affiliated laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. 

We also have joint venture arrangements with leading hospitals or IDNs in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture arrangements, which provide diagnostic information services for affiliated hospitals as well as for unaffiliated clinicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our principal facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management responsibilities for, our joint venture relationships. 

In light of continued pressure to reduce systemic healthcare costs, hospitals may change their approach to providing clinical testing services, including by seeking ways to improve profitability or to better utilize their laboratory capacity. We believe that our combination of services positions us to be an attractive partner for hospitals, offering a full range of strategic relationships. 

ACOs and IDNs 

An ACO is a network of providers and facilities that share financial risk in providing or arranging for the provision of healthcare. An IDN is a network of providers and facilities working together in providing or arranging for the provision of healthcare. ACOs and IDNs are increasing in number and becoming more important constituents in delivering healthcare services; their impact on the provision of healthcare services to date has varied. 

ACOs and IDNs may exercise operational and financial control over providers across the continuum of care, and may function as a payer. Thus, they may be able to manage the health of a population group within a defined geography, and also may be able to influence the cost and quality of healthcare delivery, for example through owned entities and through ancillary services. ACOs may be encouraged to consider exclusive arrangements with healthcare providers that become part of the ACO, or to limit service providers to the ACO, since members of the ACO share financial risk. 

We are actively engaging with ACOs and IDNs to demonstrate the value of our services. 

Employers 

Employers use tests for drugs of abuse to determine an individual's employability and his or her &#8220;fitness for duty.&#8221; Companies with high employee turnover, safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements provide the highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and job market can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. 

Employers also are investing in health and wellness services. We meet their needs by providing nationwide access to our customizable biometric wellness testing, reporting and analytics, incentive management and flu shot services, directly and through health plan and health improvement providers. These services help employers, employees and others manage healthcare costs and capitalize on trends in personalized health. 

We seek to grow our employer business through offering new and innovative programs to help them with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Patients 

In the current environment, patients are taking increased interest in and responsibility for their healthcare. In addition, patients often are bearing increased financial responsibility for their healthcare (e.g., high deductible health plans). Patients are paying greater attention to their healthcare, are increasing their demands of healthcare providers, have increased expectations regarding their healthcare experiences and are becoming more sophisticated regarding healthcare. For example, in our experience, patients are more focused on transparency, ease of doing business and understanding diagnostics information services than they have been in the past. 

The changing expectations of patients about their healthcare and their healthcare transactions is influencing the way that we think about our business and the services that we provide. We are well positioned to provide information and insights to patients to help them take actions to improve their healthcare, and increasingly we are providing patients with tools to do this. We strive to give patients reasons to choose us, including a superior patient experience. 

Emerging Retail Healthcare Providers 

In recent years, as the healthcare sector changes, retail providers of healthcare services have emerged and are growing. These providers include "big-box" retailers, pharmacy chains, supermarkets, urgent care centers and Internet-based service providers. 

Other Laboratories and Other Customers 

We also provide services on a fee-for-service basis to federal, state and local governmental agencies and to other commercial clinical laboratories 

In many cases, the customer that orders the services is not responsible to pay for them. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be the patient or a third party. Increasingly, even if a third party is primarily responsible for payment, patients may bear responsibility for a portion of the payment. The following table provides examples of third-party payers. 

Table 20 - Sample Third Party Payers 

&#8226; Health plans 

&#8226; Patient-centered medical homes 

&#8226; Self-insured employer benefit funds 

&#8226; Traditional Medicare or Medicaid program 

&#8226; ACOs 

&#8226; Physicians 

&#8226; IDNs 

&#8226; Others (e.g., hospital, laboratory or employer) 

In light of health care reform, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. Increasingly, patients are bearing responsibility for some portion of the payment for the services we provide to them. 

GENERAL 

Competition. &#32;While there has been significant consolidation in the diagnostic information services industry in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. In recent years, competition from hospital-affiliated laboratories has increased. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories and specialized esoteric laboratories, as well as manufacturers of in vitro diagnostic products. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. There also has been a trend among specialty physician practices to establish their own histology laboratory capabilities and/or bring pathologists into their practices, thereby reducing referrals from these practices. 

We believe that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors when selecting a diagnostic information services provider. Those factors include: 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Table 21 - Factors Traditionally Considered When Selecting a Diagnostic Information Services Provider 

&#8226; Service capability and quality 

&#8226; Reputation in the medical community 

&#8226; Accuracy, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results 

&#8226; Healthcare information technology solutions, including connectivity options 

&#8226; Access to medical/scientific thought leaders for consultation 

&#8226; Patient access, including the number, convenience and geographic coverage of patient service centers 

&#8226; Patient insurance coverage and experience 

&#8226; Ability to develop new and useful tests and services 

&#8226; Number and type of tests performed 

&#8226; Qualifications of its staff 

&#8226; Pricing and overall value 

&#160; 

We believe that providing the most attractive service offering in the industry, including the most comprehensive test menu, innovative test offerings, a positive customer experience, a staff including medical and scientific experts, strong quality, unparalleled access and distribution, and data-powered integrated information technology solutions provide us with a competitive advantage. 

We believe that large diagnostic information services providers may be able to increase their share of the overall diagnostic information services industry due to their large networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger providers to more effectively serve customers. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the diagnostic information services industry will continue. However, a significant portion of clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which generally have affiliations with community clinicians and may have more, or more convenient, locations in a market. As a result, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability, quality and pricing. In addition, market activity may increase the competitive environment. For example, health plan actions to exclude large national providers from contracts may enhance the relative competitive position of regional providers. In addition, increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance the ties of the clinicians to hospital-affiliated laboratories, enhancing the competitive position of hospital-affiliated laboratories. The formation of ACOs and IDNs, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may impact competition to provide diagnostic information services. 

The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. 

The diagnostic products, risk assessment and healthcare information technology industries are highly competitive. We have many competitors, some of which have much more extensive experience in these industries and some of which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products industry through unique and differentiated products. We compete in the risk assessment business by seeking to provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider array of quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete in the healthcare information technology industry by offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for healthcare providers, including smaller and medium sized physician practices. 

Sales and Marketing. &#32;&#32;Our Diagnostic Information Services business has a unified commercial organization focused on the sale and marketing of most of our services. It coordinates closely with our clinical franchise organizations, which are responsible for product marketing. The commercial organization is centrally led, and is organized regionally, in conjunction with our operations organization, to ensure aligned delivery for our customers. We maintain a separate sales and marketing organization for our employer drugs-of-abuse testing services. 

In Diagnostic Solutions, we maintain separate sales organizations that focus on selling diagnostic products, healthcare information technology solutions and risk assessment services. 

&#160; 

Information Technology. &#32;We use information systems extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test ordering and reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. We endeavor to establish systems that create value and efficiencies for our Company and customers. The successful delivery of our services 

Table of Contents &#160; 

depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. We have taken precautionary measures to prevent problems that could affect our information technology systems. 

Some of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and, as a result, we continue to use multiple information systems. We have implemented some common systems, and are planning to implement more common laboratory information and billing systems across our operations to standardize our processes. We expect implementation will take several more years to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems, improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for management and enhanced control over our operational environment. 

Quality Assurance. &#32;In our Diagnostic Information Services business, our goal is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of analysis and result reporting. The Quest Diagnostics Quality Program includes policies and procedures to document, measure and monitor the effectiveness of our laboratory operations in providing and improving quality and meeting the requirements of the agencies that regulate the U.S. clinical laboratory testing industry. The Quality Program is designed so that the quality of laboratory services is monitored objectively and evaluated systematically to proactively identify opportunities to improve patient care and resolve identified problems. We track, and seek to improve on, medical quality and service metrics. 

Our quality assurance efforts focus on pre-analytic, analytic and post-analytic processes, including positive patient identification of specimens, specimen tracking, report accuracy, proficiency testing, reference range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and personnel training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We also focus on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our professional and technical staff. To help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as the undisputed quality leader in the diagnostics information services industry, we continue to implement initiatives to enhance our quality and standardization, using our best-in-class business performance tools. In addition, some of our laboratories have achieved International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, certification for their quality management systems. 

As part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for our diagnostic information services. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes. 

We participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation or licenses for our clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or accrediting organizations, such as CMS, the College of American Pathologists (&#8220;CAP&#8221;) and certain states. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency testing programs administered by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an independent, nongovernmental organization of board-certified pathologists approved by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine compliance with the standards required by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act ("CLIA"). CAP offers an accreditation program to which clinical laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric laboratories, including our laboratories outside the U.S., and most of our rapid response laboratories, are accredited by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also, our cytotechnologists and pathologists participate in an internal peer-review evaluation and one or more external individual proficiency testing programs. 

Our diagnostic products business maintains extensive quality assurance programs focused on ensuring that our products are safe and effective and that we comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries. It is regulated by the FDA and is required to be in compliance with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and with applicable standards outside the United States. In addition, our manufacturing sites are certified in accordance with ISO 13485: 2003 standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics products in compliance with Quality Systems Regulations. 

Intellectual Property Rights. &#32;&#32;We own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material to our business as a whole. 

Our approach is to manage our intellectual property assets, to safeguard them and to maximize their value to our enterprise. We actively defend our important intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes and other intellectual property where possible. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Our success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic information services industry by continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. 

&#160; 

Employees. &#32;At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 44,000 people. This total excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority ownership interest. We have no collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations with our employees are good. 

BILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT 

Billing. &#32;We generally bill for diagnostic information services on a fee-for-service basis under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees may be negotiated or discounted. The types of fee schedules are: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Client&#8221; fees charged to physicians, hospitals and institutions for which services are performed on a wholesale basis and which are billed on a monthly basis. 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Patient&#8221; fees charged to individual patients and certain third-party payers on a claim-by-claim basis. 

Billing for diagnostic information services is very complicated, and we maintain compliance policies and procedures for our billing. Patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals, IDNs and employer groups all have different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to bill multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate billing (e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various payers; and incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering clinicians). We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs because diagnostic testing services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous federal and state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage, billing and reimbursement. Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Changes in laws and regulations could further complicate our billing and increase our billing costs. CMS establishes procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process and requirements for coverage. 

As an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting from non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action. 

&#160; 

Our bad debt expense is primarily the result of the failure of patients to pay the portion of the receivable that is their responsibility. In recent years, increased patient responsibility has adversely impacted our bad debt expense. To the extent that health plans and other programs require greater levels of patient cost-sharing, this could negatively impact our bad debt expense. We are taking, and plan to continue to take, steps to improve our patient collection experience. 

The remainder of our bad debt expense is primarily due to missing or incorrect billing information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices received from healthcare providers. In general, due to the nature of our business, historically we have performed the requested testing and reported test results regardless of whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information. 

Government Coverage and Reimbursements. &#32;Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and are expected to continue to take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical test services. Historically, most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs administered by the federal government. Over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs, called &#8220;Medicare Advantage&#8221; programs. There has been growth of health insurance providers offering Medicare Advantage programs and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. In recent years, in an effort to control costs, states also have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

With regard to the clinical testing services performed on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the local Medicare carrier's fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In addition, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most instances, pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require the beneficiary to pay a co-payment for diagnostic information services reimbursed under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, but generally does require a patient deductible for anatomic pathology services. Certain Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for diagnostic information services. 

Part B of the Medicare program contains fee schedule payment methodologies for clinical testing services performed for covered patients, including a national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their local Medicare clinical testing fee schedules. Historically, the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule and the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule established under that program have been subject to change, including each year. For 2016, each schedule is changing and reimbursement under each schedule will be different in 2016 than 2015 levels. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues reimbursed under Medicare and Medicaid in 2015. 

Table 22 - 2015 Medicare and Medicaid Revenues 

&#160; 

% of 2015 

Consolidated Net Revenues &#160; 

Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule 

Medicare Physician Fee Schedule 

Total Medicare 

Medicaid Programs 

Total Traditional Medicare and Medicaid 

Violations of laws relating to billing government healthcare programs or federal and state fraud and abuse laws may result in: exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; civil and criminal fines and penalties; and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Certain violations of these laws may also provide the basis for a civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act, including fines and damages of up to three times the amount claimed. 

&#160; 

REGULATION 

Our businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including some particular to our business and others relating to conducting business generally (e.g., export controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). We also are subject to inspections and audits by governmental agencies. The table below highlights the key regulatory schemes applicable to our businesses. 

Table 23 - Key Regulatory Schemes 

CLIA and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing 

CLIA regulates the operations of virtually all clinical laboratories, requiring that they be certified by the federal government and that they comply with various technical, operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. 

State laws may require additional personnel qualifications or licenses, quality control, record maintenance, proficiency testing or detailed review of our scientific method validations and technical procedures for certain tests. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Fraud and Abuse 

Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal or state healthcare programs. 

In addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have an ownership or investment interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing laboratory. 

Some states have similar laws that are not limited to Medicare and Medicaid referrals and could also affect other tests referred by clinicians with investment or compensation arrangements with the testing laboratory. 

Violations of these laws and regulations may result in monetary fines, criminal and civil penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. 

FDA 

The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, software, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates drugs-of-abuse testing for employers and insurers, testing for blood bank purposes and testing of donors of human cells for purposes such as in vitro fertilization. 

A number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as LDTs. The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over all LDTs, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. 

The FDA has announced guidance initiatives that may significantly impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of LDTs. 

Our diagnostic products business is subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as by foreign governmental agencies, under laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and post-market surveillance of diagnostic products. These regulators possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against us for non-compliance, such as fines, product suspensions, submission of warning letters, recalls, product seizures, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions. 

Environmental, Health and Safety 

We are subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment, the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. 

For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick injuries. 

For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Public Health Service, the U.S. Postal Service and the International Air Transport Association. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Physicians 

Our pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the jurisdiction in which they practice. 

Many of our pathologists enter into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying terms, but generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most of the agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after termination of employment; the enforceability of these covenants may be limited under state law. 

Several jurisdictions, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain jurisdictions, business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary. In some jurisdictions, anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that employ the practicing pathologists. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the jurisdictions in which medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities authorized by these jurisdictions to oversee the practice of medicine. 

Privacy and Security of Health and Personal Information 

We are subject to laws and regulations regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the regulations thereunder, which establish (i) a complex regulatory framework including requirements for safeguarding protected health information and (ii) comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. 

A healthcare provider may be required to notify individuals or the government if the provider discovers certain breaches of personal information or protected health information. 

Drug Testing; Controlled Substances 

All U.S. laboratories that perform drug testing for certain public sector employees and employees of certain federally regulated businesses are required to be certified as meeting the detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. 

To obtain access to controlled substances used to perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States, laboratories must be licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. 

Compliance. &#32;We strive to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers, are licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state agencies. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to us, however, including many of those relating to billing, reimbursement for tests and relationships with clinicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or interpretation of laws and regulations also may not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical testing science, healthcare technology and healthcare organizations. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could, among other things: 

&#8226; 

increase our administrative, billing or other operating costs; 

&#8226; 

decrease the amount of reimbursement related to diagnostic information services performed; 

&#8226; 

damage our reputation; or 

&#8226; 

adversely affect important business relationships with third parties. 

If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and other laws, including the qui tam &#32;provisions of federal and state false claims acts, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices. 

The federal or state governments may bring claims based on our current practices, which we believe are lawful. The federal and state governments have substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that, based on our experience with settlements and public announcements by various government officials, federal and state governments continue to strengthen their enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. In addition, in recent years legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse 

Table of Contents &#160; 

provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. 

We have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality, Safety &#38; Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these compliance policies and procedures. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). You may read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC's internet site, www.sec.gov. 

Our internet site is www.QuestDiagnostics.com. You can access our Investor Relations webpage at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

We also have a corporate governance webpage, www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance. You can access information regarding our corporate governance, including the information set forth below, at that page. 

Table 24 - Information Available at Our Corporate Governance Webpage 

&#8226; Directors 

&#8226; Corporate Governance Guidelines 

&#8226; Composition of the committees of our Board of Directors 

&#8226; Code of Business Ethics 

&#8226; Management 

&#8226; Certificate of Incorporation 

&#8226; Charters for the standing committees of our Board of Directors 

&#8226; Bylaws 

&#8226; Integrity Commitment 

&#8226; Corporate Political Contributions Policy 

&#8226; Statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities filed by our directors, officers and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act 

&#8226; Values 

Table of Contents &#160; 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 

The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company. 

Table 25 - Executive Officers 

Name, Age, Title 

Background 

Stephen H. Rusckowski (58) 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Prior to joining the Company in May 2012, since October 2006, he was Chief Executive Officer of Philips Healthcare, the largest unit of Royal Philips Electronics, and a member of the Board of Management of Royal Philips Electronics and its Executive Committee. Previously, he was CEO of the Imaging Systems business of Royal Phillips Electronics. 

Before joining Philips in 2001, Mr. Rusckowski held numerous management positions with the healthcare division of Hewlett-Packard/Agilent Technologies. 

Mr. Rusckowski has been a director of the Company since May 2012. He has been a director of Xerox Corporation since February 2015. Mr. Rusckowski is the Chairman of the American Clinical Laboratory Association. 

Jon R. Cohen, M.D. (61) 

Senior Vice President and Group Executive - Diagnostic Solutions 

He joined the company in March 2009 as Chief Medical Officer. From May 2011 to January 2013, Dr. Cohen also had responsibility for Hospital Services. In January 2013, he assumed responsibility for cancer diagnostics, pathology services, sports science and human performance and professional laboratory services. From February 2014 to July 2015, he had responsibility for our clinical trials business. 

Dr. Cohen served as the Senior Adviser to New York Governor David Patterson from 2008 to 2009, where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning. 

Previously, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries advisory services, at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and spent 21 years with North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation's largest not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical Officer from 2000 to 2006. 

Everett V. Cunningham (49) 

Senior Vice President, Commercial 

He is responsible for the commercial organization for the Company's Diagnostic Information Services business. 

Prior to joining the Company in October 2012, Mr. Cunningham spent 21 years with Pfizer, Inc., where he served from June 2011 to October 2012 as Regional President, Established Products, Asia. From 2009 to 2011, Mr. Cunningham served as Regional President, West Business Unit, Primary Care. From 2007 to 2009, he served as Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate Groups. Before that Mr. Cunningham served Pfizer in a series of sales and leadership and general management roles. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

James E. Davis (53) 

Senior Vice President and Group Executive - Regional Businesses 

In January 2015, he assumed responsibility for the general management of the Company's regional Diagnostic Information Services businesses. Mr. Davis also remains responsible for our products business; he has been responsible for this business since February 2014. From February 2014 to January 2015, he was responsible for operations for the Company's Diagnostic Information Services business. He joined Quest Diagnostics in April 2013 as Senior Vice President, Diagnostics Solutions, with responsibility for the healthcare information technology, risk assessment, clinical trials, diagnostic products and employer solutions businesses. 

Prior to joining Quest Diagnostics, from March 2012 to April 2013, Mr. Davis served as Lead Director, and then as Chief Executive Officer, of InSightec, Inc., a medical device company that designs and develops ultrasound ablation devices that are guided by magnetic resonance imaging systems. 

Previously, Mr. Davis held a number of senior positions in General Electric&#8217;s healthcare business, including from 2007 to 2012 as Vice President and General Manager of GE Healthcare&#8217;s magnetic resonance imaging business. Prior to joining GE Healthcare, Mr. Davis held leadership positions in GE&#8217;s aviation business and led the development of strategic and operational improvement initiatives for clients of McKinsey &#38; Company, Inc. 

Catherine T. Doherty (53) 

Senior Vice President and Group Executive - Clinical Franchise Solutions 

She is responsible for overseeing the development of clinical franchise solutions in the areas of cardiovascular, infectious disease and immunology, neurology, prescription drug monitoring and toxicology, women's health and general wellness, as well as enterprise-wide strategic marketing and business development. In February 2014, Ms. Doherty assumed responsibility for the employer solutions, healthcare information technology and risk assessment businesses. 

From May 2011 to December 2012, she served as Senior Vice President, Physician Services. From 2008 through May 2011, Ms. Doherty served as Vice President, Hospital Services. Prior to 2008, Ms. Doherty held a variety of positions of increasing responsibility since joining the Company in 1990, including Vice President, Office of the Chairman; Vice President, Finance and Administration for the Hospital business; Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations; and Chief Accounting Officer. 

Mark J. Guinan (54) 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

He joined the Company in July 2013. From 2010 until joining Quest Diagnostics in 2013, Mr. Guinan served as Chief Financial Officer for Hill-Rom Holdings Inc., a manufacturer and provider of medical technologies and related services for the health care industry. 

Previously, he had served in a number of finance and operations roles in a long career at Johnson &#38; Johnson including 2009 to 2010 as Vice President, Chief Procurement Officer, and 2005 to 2009 as Vice President, Group Finance Pharmaceuticals. Before joining Johnson &#38; Johnson in 1997, he held a number of financial roles at Procter &#38; Gamble. 

Table of Contents &#160; 

Michael E. Prevoznik (54) 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel 

Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility for governmental affairs. From 1999 until April 2009, Mr. Prevoznik also had responsibility for the Company's Compliance Department. 

Since April 2011, in addition to serving as General Counsel, Mr. Prevoznik has had management responsibility for the Company's diagnostic information services activities outside the U.S. In addition, from April 2011 to January 2013, Mr. Prevoznik had management responsibility for the Company's clinical trials business. 

Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in positions of increasing responsibility within the compliance organization at SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President, Compliance, with responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities worldwide. 

