 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

&#8220;Delta Apparel&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; are used interchangeably to refer to Delta Apparel, Inc. together with our domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries, including M.J. Soffe, LLC (&#8220;Soffe&#8221;), Junkfood Clothing Company (&#8220;Junkfood&#8221;), Salt Life, LLC (f/k/a To The Game, LLC) (&#8220;Salt Life&#8221;), Art Gun, LLC (&#8220;Art Gun&#8221;), and other international subsidiaries, as appropriate to the context. 

We were incorporated in Georgia in 1999 and our headquarters is located at 322 South Main Street, Greenville, South Carolina 29601 (telephone number: 864-232-5200). Our common stock trades on the NYSE MKT &#32;under the symbol &#8220;DLA&#8221;. 

We operate on a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. The 2016 and 2014 fiscal years were 52-week years that ended on October 1, 2016, and September 27, 2014, respectively. The 2015 fiscal year was a 53-week year that ended on October 3, 2015. &#32; 

OVERVIEW 

Delta Apparel, Inc. is an international apparel design, marketing, manufacturing and sourcing company that features a diverse portfolio of lifestyle basics and branded activewear apparel, headwear and related accessory products. We specialize in selling casual and athletic products through a variety of distribution channels and distribution tiers, including specialty stores, boutiques, department stores, mid and mass channels, e-retailers, and the U.S. military. Our products are also made available direct-to-consumer on our websites and in our retail stores. &#32;&#32;We believe this diversified distribution allows us to capitalize on our strengths to provide casual activewear to consumers purchasing from most types of retailers. 

We design and internally manufacture the majority of our products, which allows us to offer a high degree of consistency and quality controls as well as leverage scale efficiencies. &#32;&#32;One of our strengths is the speed with which we can reach the market from design to delivery. We have manufacturing operations located in the United States, El Salvador, Honduras and Mexico, and use domestic and foreign contractors as additional sources of production. Our distribution facilities are strategically located throughout the United States to better serve our customers with same-day shipping on our catalog products and weekly replenishments to retailers. &#32; 

We became a diversified branded apparel company through acquisitions that added well-recognized brands and licensed properties to our portfolio, expanded our product offerings and broadened our distribution channels and customer base. 

On August 30, 2016, we purchased substantially all of the assets of COAST Apparel ("Coast"). The Coast acquisition continues our strategy of building lifestyle brands that take advantage of our creative capabilities, direct-to-consumer infrastructure, vertical manufacturing platform and sourcing competencies. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

We operate our business in two distinct segments: basics and branded . Although the two segments are similar in their production processes and regulatory environments, they are distinct in their economic characteristics, products, marketing and distribution methods. 

The basics segment is comprised of our business units primarily focused on garment styles characterized by low fashion risk, and includes our Delta Activewear (which includes Delta Catalog and FunTees) and Art Gun business units. We market, distribute and manufacture unembellished knit apparel under the main brands of Delta Pro Weight &#174; and Delta Magnum Weight &#174; &#32;for sale to a diversified audience ranging from large licensed screen printers to small independent businesses. We also manufacture private label products for major branded sportswear companies, trendy regional brands, retailers, and sports licensed apparel marketers. Typically our private label products are sold with value-added services such as hangtags, ticketing, hangers, and embellishment so that they are fully ready for retail. Using digital print equipment and its proprietary technology, Art Gun embellishes garments to create private label, custom decorated apparel servicing the fast-growing e-retailer channels. 

The branded segment is comprised of our business units which are focused on specialized apparel garments and headwear to meet consumer preferences and fashion trends, and includes our Salt Life, Junkfood, Soffe, and Coast business units as well as The Game &#32;business unit prior to its disposition on March 2, 2015. These branded embellished and unembellished products are sold through specialty and boutique shops, upscale and traditional department stores, mid-tier retailers, sporting goods stores, e-retailers and the U.S. military. Products in this segment are marketed under our lifestyle brands of Salt Life&#174;, Junk Food&#174;, Soffe&#174;, and COAST&#174;, as well as other labels. The results of the Coast business have been included in the branded segment since acquisition on August 30, 2016. &#32; 

See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

PRODUCTS 

We specialize in the design, merchandising, sales, and marketing of a variety of casual and athletic products for men, women, juniors, youth and children at a wide range of price points through most distribution channels. We market fashion apparel garments, headwear 

&#32;2 

and accessories under our primary brands of Salt Life&#174;, Junk Food&#174;, Soffe&#174; and COAST&#174;, as well as other labels. We market our basic apparel garments under our Delta brand. 

Salt Life is an authentic, aspirational and lifestyle apparel brand that embraces those who love the ocean and everything associated with it. From fishing, diving and surfing, to beach fun and sun-soaked relaxation, the Salt Life brand says "I live the Salt Life". Products consist of tee shirts, board shorts, technical fishing apparel, rash guards and performance clothing featuring our own trademarked UVAPOR fabrics. Salt Life's distribution includes surf shops, specialty stores, department stores, sporting goods and outdoor retailers, and direct-to-consumer through retail doors and ecommerce. 

Junk Food &#32;emerged in 1998 as the original vintage t-shirt brand. Known for its soft, comfortable fabrics and witty art, the Junk Food brand is a celebrity favorite carried in the top stores throughout the world, including branded collaborations with Nordstrom, Gap Inc. and other notable retailers. Also a licensing powerhouse, Junkfood has distribution rights to numerous pop-culture properties across multiple categories, including rock &#38; roll, fictional characters, movies, sports, and foods and beverages. The Junk Food brand continues to expand beyond its iconic tee shirt collections with new apparel categories, accessories, and headwear, showcased in its flagship retail store on Abbot Kinney in Venice, California. Junkfood's diversified business model includes both private and branded labels, with a portfolio that includes Junk Food&#174;, Junk Food Art House, Wknd, Stray Heart&#174;, K38&#174;, Paint and Cloth&#174;, Worn Rite&#174;, Love + Art&#174;, and True Vintage&#174;. 

Soffe &#32;is a lifestyle activewear brand that designs, produces, and markets products for men, women, juniors, and children. Soffe&#8217;s &#8220;The Strength Is In Us&#8221; marketing campaign is targeted toward core consumers who lead active lifestyles and understand that, together, we can accomplish more than by ourselves. The women's product offerings are grounded in the brand's heritage in the cheerleading market and include a newly introduced performance segment that features technical fabrics as well as fun-fashion design influences. As a supplier to the military since 1946, the Soffe men's products are rooted in this military heritage. Core items include performance garments issued directly to enlisted soldiers which also have broad appeal to young men who lead an active lifestyle. By incorporating trend-leading fits and an overall fashion-on-the-field sensibility, Intensity by Soffe creates performance uniforms, practice gear, and accessories. Soffe has a diverse distribution network that includes all military branches, big-box sporting goods retailers, department stores, independent sporting goods retailers, team dealers, screen printers, schools and direct-to-consumer outlets. 

Coast integrates the coastal experience of weekends and summers at the beach with everyday life throughout the year. Beginning with just a men&#8217;s polo shirt, Coast Apparel has since expanded into a full line of traditional, sports-casual attire, headwear and accessories. Coast Apparel primarily markets direct-to-consumer through two retail stores, located in Greenville, South Carolina and Pawley&#8217;s Island, South Carolina, and via its ecommerce site at www.coastapparel.com and can also be found at select independent retailers. 

Delta &#32;offers a wide assortment of basic, high-quality apparel garments for the entire family under its primary brand names Delta Pro Weight&#174; and Delta Magnum Weight&#174;. Delta products are offered in a broad range of colors available in six-month infant to adult sizes up to 5X. The Pro Weight&#174; line represents a diverse selection of mid-weight, 100% cotton silhouettes in a large color palette. The Magnum Weight&#174; line is designed to give our customers a variety of silhouettes in a heavier-weight, 100% cotton fabric. In 2016, we broadened our fashion basics line with a snow heather french terry hoodie and zip hoodie. Our fleece and french terry products help Delta meet the seasonal demands of our diversified customer base. New for 2017, with the success of our Delta Dri brand, we are now expanding into a ladies line to accompany the existing mens and boys. In addition, we are adding a line of pepper heathers and tri-blends to further extend the fashion basics component of our line. 

FunTees &#32;designs, markets and manufactures private label custom knit t-shirts primarily to major branded sportswear and lifestyle companies. The majority of this merchandise is manufactured, embellished and sold to our customers with a wide variety of packaging services so that products are shipped store-ready. 

Art Gun is a leader in direct-to-garment printing, with one of the most highly-automated factory processes for delivering on-demand, direct-to-garment, digitally printed garments of all types. Art Gun prints individual, custom items and ships products to consumers in over 40 countries worldwide. 

A key to the success of our businesses is our ability to anticipate and quickly respond to changing consumer preferences. Our art team reviews trend reports, concepts and color trends to keep our products and designs in style. This information is used by our in-house designers and merchandisers, along with our sales and marketing personnel, who review market trends, sales results and the popularity of our latest products to design new merchandise to meet the expected future demands of our consumers. 

TRADEMARKS AND LICENSE AGREEMENTS 

We own several well-recognized trademarks that are important to our business. Salt Life&#174; is an authentic, aspirational brand that embraces those who love the ocean and everything associated with living the "Salt Life". Soffe&#174; has stood for quality and value in the athletic and activewear market for more than sixty years and Junk Food&#174; has been known as a leading vintage t-shirt brand since 1998. Our other registered trademarks include COAST&#174;, Intensity Athletics&#174;, Kudzu&#174;, Pro Weight&#174;, Magnum Weight&#174;, and the Delta Design. Our trademarks are valuable assets that differentiate the marketing of our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights against infringement. 

&#32;3 

We have distribution rights to other trademarks through license agreements. The Soffe business unit is an official licensee for major colleges and universities. Junkfood has rights to distribute trademarked apparel across athletics (including the NFL and NBA), music, entertainment, foods and beverages, and numerous other pop-culture categories. We also have license agreements for motorsports properties (including NASCAR), golf and various resort properties. Our license agreements are typically non-exclusive in nature and have terms that range from one to three years. Historically we have been able to renew our license agreements; however, the loss of certain license agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we are not dependent on any single license, our license agreements collectively are of significant value to our branded segment. 

SALES &#38; MARKETING 

Our sales and marketing function consists of both employed and independent sales representatives and agencies located throughout the country. In our branded segment, sales teams service specialty and boutique, upscale and traditional department store, sporting goods and outdoor retailer, and military customer bases. We also have an international presence with our Junk Food&#174; products in Canada, Europe, Asia, and Dubai. Our brands leverage both in-house and outsourced marketing communications professionals to amplify their lifestyle statements. In our basics segment, we sell our knit apparel products primarily direct to large and small screen printers and into the promotional products markets. Our private label products are sold primarily to major branded sportswear companies and regional, trendy brands. 

During fiscal year 2016 , we shipped our products to approximately 11,000 customers, many of whom have numerous retail "doors". No single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales in fiscal years 2016, 2015 or 2014, and our strategy is to not become dependent on any single customer. Revenues attributable to sales of our products in foreign countries, as a percentage of our consolidated net sales, represented approximately 2% in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

The majority of our apparel products are produced based on forecasts to permit quick shipments to our customers. Private label programs are generally made only to order or based on customer forecasts, and our headwear products are primarily sourced based on customer orders. We aggressively explore new ways to leverage our strengths and efficiencies to meet the quick-turn needs of our customers. 

We have distribution facilities strategically located throughout the United States that carry in-stock inventory for shipment to customers, with most shipments made via third party carriers. To better serve customers, we allow products to be ordered by the piece, dozen, or full case quantity. Because a significant portion of our business consists of at-once replenishment and direct catalog orders, we believe that backlog order levels do not provide a general indication of future sales. 

COMPETITION 

We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of apparel and headwear products in domestic and international markets, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. 

We believe that competition within our branded segment is based primarily upon brand recognition, design, and consumer preference. We focus on sustaining the strong reputation of our brands by adapting our product offerings to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences. We aim to keep our merchandise offerings fresh with unique artwork and new designs, and support the integrated lifestyle statement of our products through effective consumer marketing. We believe that our favorable competitive position stems from strong consumer recognition and brand loyalty, the high quality of our products, and our flexibility and process control, which drive product consistency. We believe that our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality, price, design, marketing, product development, manufacturing, technology and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. 

Competition in our basics segment is generally based upon price, service, delivery time and quality, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of the particular customers and the specific product offering. These businesses are highly price competitive and competitor actions can greatly influence pricing and demand for our products. While price is still important in the private label market, quality and service are generally more important factors for customer choice. Our ability to consistently service the needs of our private label customers greatly impacts future business with these customers. 

SEASONALITY 

Although our various product lines are sold on a year-round basis, the demand for specific products or styles reflects some seasonality, with sales in our June fiscal quarter typically being the highest and sales in our December fiscal quarter typically being the lowest. As we continue to expand our product offerings, the seasonality in our business has become less pronounced. The percentage of net sales by quarter for the year ended October 1, 2016, was 21%, 25%, 27% and 27% for the first, second, third, and fourth fiscal quarters, respectively. Consumer demand for apparel is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of demand for soft goods, which may or may not coincide with the overall level of discretionary consumer spending. These levels of demand change as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. Therefore, the distribution of sales by quarter in fiscal year 2016 may not be indicative of the distribution in future years. 

&#32;4 

MANUFACTURING 

We have a vertically integrated manufacturing platform that supports both our basics and branded segments. Our manufacturing operations begin with the purchase of yarn and other raw materials from third-party suppliers. We manufacture fabrics in our leased textile facility located near San Pedro Sula, Honduras, and purchase fabric domestically and internationally to supplement our internal production. The manufacturing process continues at one of our six apparel manufacturing facilities where the products are ultimately sewn into finished garments. We either own these facilities or lease and operate them. These facilities are located domestically (two in North Carolina) and internationally (two in Honduras, one in El Salvador and one in Mexico). Our garments may also be embellished and prepared for retail sale (with any combination of services, including ticketing, hang tags, and hangers). The facilities that perform these operations are located domestically (one in Florida and one in North Carolina) and internationally (one in El Salvador and one in Mexico). In fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, approximately 81%, 84% and 81%, respectively, of our manufactured products were sewn in company-operated locations. The remaining products were sewn by outside contractors located primarily in the Caribbean Basin. 

At our 2016, 2015 and 2014 fiscal year-ends, our long-lived assets in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico collectively comprised approximately 58%, 44%, and 44%, respectively, of our total net property, plant and equipment, with our long-lived assets in Honduras comprising 45%, 33%, 35% of the total, respectively. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a description of risks associated with our operations located outside of the United States. 

To supplement our internal manufacturing platform, we purchase fabric, undecorated products and full-package products from independent sources throughout the world. In fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, we sourced approximately 15%, 16%, and 19%, respectively, of our products from third parties. 

RAW MATERIALS 

We have a supply agreement with Parkdale Mills, Inc. and Parkdale America, LLC (collectively "Parkdale") to supply our yarn requirements until December 31, 2018. Under the supply agreement, we purchase from Parkdale all of our yarn requirements for use in our manufacturing operations, excluding yarns that Parkdale does not manufacture or cannot manufacture due to temporary capacity constraints. The purchase price of yarn is based upon the cost of cotton plus a fixed conversion cost. &#32; If Parkdale&#8217;s operations are disrupted and it is not able to provide us with our yarn requirements, we may need to obtain yarn from alternative sources. Although alternative sources are presently available, we may not be able to enter into short-term arrangements with substitute suppliers on terms as favorable as our current terms with Parkdale. &#32;&#32;In addition, the cotton futures we have fixed with Parkdale may not be transferable to alternative yarn suppliers. Because there can be no assurance that we would be able to pass along the higher cost of yarn to our customers, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. &#32;&#32;&#32; 

We also purchase specialized fabrics that we currently do not have the capacity or capability to produce and may purchase other fabrics when it is cost-effective to do so. While these fabrics typically are available from various suppliers, there are times when certain yarns become limited in quantity, causing some fabrics to be difficult to source. This can result in higher prices or the inability to provide products to customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Dyes and chemicals are also purchased from several third party suppliers. While historically we have not had difficulty obtaining sufficient quantities of dyes and chemicals for manufacturing, the availability of products can change, which could require us to adjust dye and chemical formulations. In certain instances, these adjustments can increase manufacturing costs, negatively impacting our results of operations. 

EMPLOYEES AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 

As of October 1, 2016, we employed approximately 7,700 full time employees, of whom approximately 1,000 were employed in the United States. Approximately 1,220 employees at one of our facilities in San Pedro Sula, Honduras are party to a three-year collective bargaining agreement and approximately 1,700 employees at a separate facility in San Pedro Sula, Honduras are party to a different three-year collective bargaining agreement. We have historically conducted our operations without significant labor disruptions and believe that our relations with our employees are good. We have invested significant time and resources in attempting to cause the working conditions in all of our facilities to meet or exceed the standards imposed by governing laws and regulations. We have obtained WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production) certification for all of our manufacturing facilities that we operate in Honduras, El Salvador and Mexico. Delta Apparel, Inc. is a participating company of the FLA (Fair Labor Association). This affiliation with FLA further enhances human rights compliance monitoring for our plants and our third party contractors. In addition, we have proactive programs to promote workplace safety, personal health, and employee wellness. We also support educational institutions and charitable organizations in the communities where we operate. 

ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, wastewater discharges, storm water flows, air emissions and solid waste disposal. Our plants generate small quantities of hazardous waste, which are either recycled or disposed of off-site. Several of our plants are required to possess one or more environmental permits, and we believe that we are currently in compliance with the requirements of these permits. 

&#32;5 

The environmental regulations applicable to our business are becoming increasingly stringent and we incur capital and other expenditures annually to achieve compliance with environmental standards. We currently do not expect that the amount of expenditures required to comply with these environmental standards will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition or liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that future changes in federal, state, or local regulations, interpretations of existing regulations or the discovery of currently unknown problems or conditions will not require substantial additional expenditures. Similarly, while we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental requirements, the extent of our liability, if any, for past failures to comply with laws, regulations and permits applicable to our operations cannot be determined and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

RESEARCH &#38; DEVELOPMENT 

Although we continually seek new products and brands to take to market via our diverse distribution network and customer base, there were no material amounts expended on research and development in the fiscal years ended October 1, 2016 , October 3, 2015, and September 27, 2014. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our corporate internet address is www.deltaapparelinc.com . We make available free of charge on our website our SEC reports, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this, or any other, report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

In addition, we will provide upon request, at no cost, paper or electronic copies of our reports and other filings made with the SEC. Requests should be directed to: Investor Relations Department, Delta Apparel, Inc., 322 South Main Street, Greenville, South Carolina 29601. Requests can also be made by telephone to 864-232-5200 extension 6621, or via email at investor.relations@deltaapparel.com. 

