 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

DLH Holdings Corp. (&#8220;DLH&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221; and also referred to as &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221;) is a full-service provider of professional healthcare and social services to government agencies including the Department of Veteran Affairs ("VA"), Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), Department of Defense ("DoD"), and other government agencies. Incorporated in New Jersey in 1969, the Company principally operates through its legal entities DLH Solutions, Inc. ("DLH Solutions") and Danya International, LLC ("DLH Danya" or "Danya") and is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. 

DLH manages its operations from its principal executive offices at 3565 Piedmont Road NE, Building 3 Suite 700, Atlanta Georgia 30305. We employ over 1,400 &#32;skilled employees working in more than &#32; 30 &#32;locations throughout the United States. 

On May 3, 2016, DLH acquired Danya International, LLC (&#8220;DLH Danya&#8221; or "Danya") which provides technology-enabled program management, consulting, and digital communications solutions to federal government and other customers. We acquired Danya to expand offerings across government markets. This acquisition is in line with our strategic growth initiatives, and we intend to continue to review and position ourselves for other potential joint venture or strategic acquisition opportunities in the future. 

The foundations of our business offerings are now focused on three primary sources of revenue within the Federal health services market space, as follows: 

&#8226; 

Department of Defense and veteran health services, comprising approximately 55% &#32;of our current business base; 

&#8226; 

Human services and solutions, approximately 40% &#32;of our current business base; and 

&#8226; 

Public health and life sciences, approximately 5% &#32;of our current business base. 

Defense and veterans&#8217; health solutions: &#32;&#32;DLH provides a wide range of healthcare services and delivery solutions to the Department of Veteran Affairs, US Army Medical Materiel Command and its subordinate US Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity, Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, and the Defense Health Agency and Army Medical Command. We believe that our DLH-developed tools and processes, including SPOT-m TM &#32;and e-PRAT TM , along with our cloud-based case management system have been major contributors in differentiating the company within this Federal market. 

Advancing the technology readiness level of new development items is a critical priority of our federal agency customers. Our project managers and biomedical engineers perform state-of-the-art research &#38; development, testing &#38; evaluation, and development of new medical systems and devices intended to enhance the medical readiness of troops in combat theaters across the globe. Our medical logistics support assists the uniformed services plan for fielding these new systems and devices. We 

deliver clinical drug and alcohol counseling services to Navy installations worldwide as part of the clinical preceptorship program, thereby improving the sailor health and readiness. DLH provides a range of case management, physical and behavioral health examinations and associated medical administration services to enhance the assessment and transition process for military personnel readiness commands and individual service members. DLH is also engaged in efforts to alleviate homelessness among Veterans. We provide a range of professional case management services to support Veterans' transition back into the community. These services include mental health evaluations, behavioral readiness, skills assessment, career counseling, and job preparation services. 

DLH is on the forefront of ensuring that veterans receive their out-patient prescriptions on time, each day, through the VA CMOP pharmacy program. The Department's Secretary recently recognized the VA's CMOP program for service excellence, citing the JD Powers ranking and noting that cost advantage has been tremendous and cost avoidance significant. More information can be found on the DLH website at www.dlhcorp.com. DLH is proud of our contributions to the VA in achieving these outstanding results. We believe that our operational efficiency and expertise is well-aligned with the VA strategic goals to manage and improve operations and to deliver seamless and integrated support; our unique capabilities and solutions help the VA optimize efficiency and help ensure program accountability as well as better service. We look forward to future opportunities to expand our offerings within the VA as they build a consolidated supply chain for all of their medical centers. 

Human services and solutions: &#32;&#32;DLH provides a wide range of human services and solutions to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Head Start and the Department of Homeland Security. DLH provides a systems-based approach toward assuring that underserved children and youth throughout the country are getting proper educational and environmental support, including health, nutritional, parental, and behavioral services during their formative years - services that are critical to ensuring the long-term health of the nation. Performance verification of grantees delivering such services nationwide is conducted using an evolving system of monitoring, evaluation, tracking and reporting tools against selected key performance indicators relative to school readiness. Large scale federally-funded, regionally managed, and locally delivered services demand innovative monitoring and protocol systems integration to ensure productive and cost-effective results. DLH provides the enterprise-level IT system architecture design, migration plan, and ongoing maintenance (including call center) to manage the implementation using experienced subject matter experts and project management resources. 

Public health and life sciences: &#32;&#32;DLH provides a wide range of services to Department of Health and Human Services' Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the Department of the Interior, and the Department of Agriculture. DLH services include advancing disease prevention methods and health promotion to underserved and hard to reach at-risk communities through development of strategic communication campaigns, research on emerging trends, health informatics analyses, and application of best practices including mobile, social, and interactive media. The company leverages evidence-based methods and web technology to drive health equity to our most vulnerable populations through public engagement. For at-risk wildlife, DLH conducts biological research and surveys covering waterways in key parts of the country to protect and conserve aquatic populations as well as manage wetlands and habitats through environmental assessments. Projects often involve highly specialized expertise and research methodologies. This work is often very seasonal with regard to resources and funding. 

Customers 

Presently, the Company derives 100% &#32;of its revenue from agencies of the Federal government, primarily as a prime contractor but also as a subcontractor to other Federal prime contractors. A major customer is defined as a customer from whom the Company derives at least 10% of its revenues. 

Our largest customer continues to be the VA, which comprised approximately 72% and 95% of revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015, respectively. Additionally, HHS represents a major customer, comprising 13% of revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2016 &#32;&#32;following the Danya acquisition. In addition, substantially all accounts receivable, including unbilled accounts receivable, are from agencies of the U.S. Government as of September 30, 2016 &#32;&#32;and 2015. We believe that the credit risk associated with our receivables is limited due to the creditworthiness of these customers. See Note 4, Supporting Financial Information-Accounts Receivable. 

As of September 30, 2016 , duration of contract awards from the VA and HHS range from approximately one to four years. These agreements are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations. While there can be no assurance as to the actual amount of services that the Company will ultimately provide to VA and HHS under its current contracts, we believe that our strong working relationships and our effective service delivery will result in our customers retaining DLH for the full duration of the contract term. The Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be materially adversely affected in the event that we were unable to continue our relationship with VA and HHS. 

Through organic growth and its acquisition of Danya, DLH continues to expand into other Federal agencies to diversify its business portfolio. Our acquisition of Danya enables us to provide a greater array of services to the Federal Government and provided us with access to new federal agencies, as well as the ability to expand our current portfolio of work with agencies where both companies have existing relationships. Our expanded capabilities allow us to address more comprehensively many of the challenges faced by our target customer agencies. &#32; 

Backlog 

At September 30, 2016 , the total backlog was approximately $233 million . Total backlog as of September 30, 2015 &#32;was approximately $146 million . Backlog represents total estimated contract value of predominantly multi-year government contracts and will vary depending upon the timing of new/renewal contract awards. Backlog is based upon customer commitments that the Company believes to be firm over the remaining performance period of our contracts. Backlog value is based upon contract commitments, management judgment and assumptions about the volume of services, availability of customer funding and other factors. Our backlog may consist of both funded and unfunded amounts under existing contracts including option periods. At September 30, 2016 , our funded backlog was approximately $95 million &#32;and our unfunded backlog was $138 million . 

The value of multi-client, competitive Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") contract awards is included in backlog computation only when a task order is awarded. The award of an IDIQ contract does not represent a firm order for services and is subject to competitive bidding. Generally, under an IDIQ contract, the government is not obligated to order a minimum of services or supplies from its contractor, irrespective of the total estimated contract value. A number of U.S. Government programs with which we are associated are multi-year programs, and as such a substantial portion of our backlog is expected to be filled subsequent to fiscal 2017 . While no assurances can be given that existing contracts will result in earned revenue in any future period, or at all, the Company&#8217;s major customers have historically exercised their contractual renewal options. 

Position and Distribution of Services and Solutions in Our Markets 

Our strengths in the markets in which we compete and the manner in which we are positioned within them, are enhanced by a number of features including, but not limited to: 

&#8226; 

high barriers for entry into the selected markets in which we serve; 

&#8226; 

substantial component of our employee base possess specialized credentials and licenses; 

&#8226; 

over 90% &#32;of our revenue is derived from prime contracts with the US Government; 

&#8226; 

strong past performance record, as evidenced by our VA customer scoring the highest in overall satisfaction in the J.D. Power National Pharmacy Study over the past six years; and 

&#8226; 

targeted expansion in critical national priority markets with Federal budget stability. 

The Company operates primarily through prime contracts awarded through full and open competition by the government. The Company has a diverse mix of contract vehicles with various agencies of the United States Government, which supports our overall corporate growth strategy. The majority of our contracts are fixed-price type contracts. As such, the Company has developed and continues to leverage a suite of solution offerings geared toward enhancing performance and productivity while reducing costs to its US government clients. We also provide services under IDIQ and government wide acquisition contracts, such as General Services Administration (GSA) schedule contracts and currently hold multiple GSA schedule contracts, under which we provide services that constitute a significant percentage of our total revenue. These Federal contract schedules are renewed on a recurring basis for a multi-year period. We also utilize various components of Lean Six Sigma and other management techniques to achieve continuous improvement. 

Competitive Landscape 

Full and open competition and long business development cycles are characteristics of the government and defense industry in which we operate. For major program competition, the business acquisition cycle typically ranges from 18 to 36 months. Companies may pursue work either as prime contractor or partner with other companies in a subcontractor role. Those competing as prime contractors normally expend substantially more resources than those in subcontractor roles. We partner and compete with several large and small-business companies in pursuit of acquiring new business. 

Our competitor companies include operating units within, among others: Deloitte, Booz Allen Hamilton, Leidos, CACI, CSC, Lockheed Martin, UnitedHealth, ICF International, RTI, and Westat. 

DLH competes with these companies by leveraging our differentiating suite of tools and uniquely integrating people and processes resulting in highly competitive proposals and a solid track record of past performance. We compete for awards through a full and open competition on a "best-value basis". The Company draws heavily from its consistent high quality past performance ratings, proven and evolving technical differentiators, key personnel credentials and growing market recognition to compete. The Company believes that our track record, knowledge and processes with respect to government contract bidding processes represent significant competitive advantages. 

Our recent and future success in this competitive landscape hinges on our ability to continue to uniquely integrate people, processes and technology tools to deliver best value solutions for our targeted clients (both government and industry partners). Additionally, our ability to remain cost-competitive remains important. 

Intellectual Property 

We claim copyright, trademark and other proprietary rights in a variety of intellectual property, including each of our proprietary computer software and data products and the related documentation. DLH holds two registered trademarks, PRAT &#174; &#32;and SPOT-m &#174; , that optimize resource allocation and supply chain management processes in connection with our management consulting services. Because our business involves providing services to government entities, our operations generally are not substantially dependent upon obtaining and/or maintaining copyright or trademark protections, although our operations make use of such protections and benefit from them as discriminators in competition. We maintain a number of trade secrets that contribute to our success and competitive distinction and endeavor to accord such trade secrets adequate protection to ensure their continuing availability. 

Government Regulation 

Our business is affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. In addition, many federal and state laws materially affect the Company's operations. These laws relate to ethics, labor, tax, and employment matters. As any employer, DLH is subject to federal and state statutes and regulations governing their standards of business conduct with the government. The development of additional statutes and regulations and interpretation of existing statutes and regulations with respect to our industry can be expected to evolve over time. Through its corporate membership with the Professional Services Council and other affiliations, DLH monitors proposed and pending regulations from relevant congressional committees and government agency policies that have potential impact upon our industry and our specific strategically targeted markets. As with any commercial enterprise, DLH cannot predict with certainty the nature or direction of the development of Federal statutes and regulations that will affect its business operations. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. 

Employee Relations 

As of September 30, 2016 , the Company employed over 1,400 &#32;employees performing in over 30 &#32;locations throughout the U.S. Management believes that is has good relations with its employees. In October 2014, employees at our Chicago location approved the adoption of union representation for non-management employees. Union representation has been certified for these employees and collective bargaining discussions are ongoing. Management does not expect this agreement to materially impact results of operations. 

&#32; Corporate 

Our principal executive offices are located at 3565 Piedmont Road NE, Building 3 Suite 700, Atlanta Georgia 30305. Our telephone number is 770.554.3545 and our website is www.dlhcorp.com. References herein to our website are provided purely as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. 

Principal Executive Officers 

Our principal executive officers are: Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Positions 

Zachary C. Parker 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Kathryn M. JohnBull 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Financial Officer 

Kevin Wilson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President, DLH Solutions, Inc. 

Zachary C. Parker &#32;became Chief Executive Officer and President of DLH Holdings Corp. in February 2010. He has over 25 years of experience with the government services market, including DoD, holding several senior and executive management positions in addition to business development posts. His tenure includes approximately 19 years with Northrop Grumman, 7 years with GE Government Services (now Lockheed Martin), and 3 and 2 years with VSE Corporation and VT Group, respectively. Prior to joining DLH, Mr. Parker held executive positions, including President and previously Executive Vice President for Business Development, within VT Group, from March 2008 to February 2010. His executive development includes the GE Crotonville Executive Development Program, Darden Executive Leadership Program, Northrop Grumman Action Leadership Program, Wharton Earned Value Management, California Institute of Technology Strategic Marketing Program, and is Lean Six Sigma Green Belt certified among other professional and technical certifications. Mr. Parker is active in both professional and community associations including the Governmental Affairs Committee and the Veteran Affairs Task Force of the Washington DC-based Professional Services Council and has served as industry co-chair of the Government/Industry Partnership Executive council. He is an advisory board member of Hero Health Hire (a non-profit entity). He has also served as board member on joint venture companies in the government services business. Mr. Parker earned his bachelor's degree from California State University, Northridge (with honors) specializing in Human Factors Engineering and has completed post-graduate studies. 

&#160; Kathryn M. JohnBull &#32;was named Chief Financial Officer on June 25, 2012. She has over 25 years of experience within the government services market, principally with publicly-traded companies who experienced substantial organic and acquisitive growth. From January 2008 to June 2012, Ms. JohnBull was a senior financial executive with QinetiQ North America, serving in both corporate and operating group roles, including as Senior Vice President&#8212;Finance for its overall operations. From August 2002 to December 2007, Ms. JohnBull served as Operations Segment Chief Financial Officer for MAXIMUS, Inc, a publicly-traded provider of business process outsourcing, consulting and systems solutions. Prior industry positions, with emphasis on tax and treasury, were with BDM International, Inc. and United Defense. Ms. JohnBull is a certified public accountant and from 1985 to 1988 was with Arthur Andersen &#38; Company as a tax manager and staff. Ms. JohnBull received a Bachelor of Business Administration, summa cum laude, from the University of Tulsa. 

Kevin Wilson &#32;was appointed as the President of our subsidiary DLH Solutions in October 2008, previously serving as the Director of DLH Solutions from June 2007 through September 2008. From January 2004 to June 2007, Mr. Wilson served as the Director of Strategic Alliances of government services provider SAIC, Inc., where he was responsible for business development in the domestic and foreign defense markets. From March 1997 to January 2004, Mr. Wilson was the Program Manager for a multiyear defense services contract with Endress Hauser Systems &#38; Gauging. Mr. Wilson also worked at Tracer Research Corporation from January 1990 to March 1997, where he was Project Manager for the United States Air Force, Air Combat Command professional services contract. Mr. Wilson holds a BS in Business Marketing from Northwest Missouri State University. 

Available Information 

We file registration statements, periodic and current reports, proxy statements, and other materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including our filings. We make our public filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all exhibits and amendments to these reports available free of charge on our website, http://www.dlhcorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with the SEC. We also make available on our website reports filed by our executive officers and directors on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding their ownership of our securities. These materials are available in the "Investor Relations" portion of our website, under the link "SEC Filings." We also use our website to make generally available important information about our company. Important information, including press releases, presentation and financial information regarding our company, is routinely posted on and accessible on the Investor Relations subpage of our website, which is accessible by clicking on the tab labeled "Investor Relations" on our website home page. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other filings we make with the SEC. 

