 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

General 

We were incorporated on August 4, 2010, under the laws of the State of Nevada under the name &#147;SOS Link Corporation&#148;. On April 15, 2011, we changed our place of incorporation from the State of Nevada to the Province of British Columbia, Canada and concurrently changed our name to &#147;Venza Gold Corp.&#148;. The change from Nevada to British Columbia was approved by our shareholders on April 14, 2011. On January 6, 2014, we changed our name to &#147;CoreComm Solutions Inc.&#148; and on February 11, 2015, we changed our name to &#147;Vgrab Communications Inc.&#148; to reflect our current business. 

On February 10, 2015, we completed an acquisition of the Vgrab software application (the &#147;Vgrab Application&#148;) pursuant to the terms of a software purchase agreement dated January 8, 2015 (the &#147;Software Purchase Agreement&#148;) between us and Hampshire Capital Limited (&#147;Hampshire&#148;). The Vgrab Application is a free mobile voucher application developed for smartphones using the Android and Apple iOS operating systems and allows users to redeem vouchers on their smartphones at a number of retailers and merchants. 

On June 24, 2015, we formed a subsidiary, Vgrab International Ltd., (the &#147;Subsidiary&#148;, or &#147;Vgrab International&#148;) under the Labuan Companies Act 1990 in Federal Territory of Labuan, Malaysia. The main focus of the Subsidiary is to continue development of the Vgrab Application and start its market penetration in Southeast Asia. 

On July 12, 2015, our Subsidiary entered into a service agreement (the &#147;Service Agreement&#148;) with Hampshire Infotech SDN BHD, for the development of Vgrab website and application, as well as any additional programming, design, and maintenance services required to bring the Vgrab to market. The Service Agreement is for a term of one year, and may be automatically renewed for additional one-year term, unless otherwise agreed by both parties. Pursuant to the Service Agreement, the Subsidiary agreed to pay Hampshire Infotech $30,000 per month for their services. 

Acquisition of Vgrab 

On January 8, 2015, we entered into a software purchase agreement with Hampshire Capital Limited (&#147;Hampshire&#148;) whereby Hampshire has agreed to sell us the Vgrab Application. On February 10, 2015, in consideration of the Vgrab Application, we issued to Hampshire 22,500,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to the provisions of Regulation S of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#147;Act&#148;). Hampshire represented that it was not a resident of the United States and was otherwise not a &#147;U.S. Person&#148; as that term is defined in Rule 902(k) of Regulation S of the Act.

Business of Vgrab Communications 

Our business involves the development of mobile applications for merchant and consumer use. We have two different types of mobile applications, an application designed for consumers (the &#147;Vgrab Application&#148;) and an application designed for merchants (the &#147;Vgrab Merchant Application&#148;). We also have an online platform that we are developing to sell online goods (the &#147;Vmore Platform&#148;). In addition, we provide marketing services to merchants including advertising on our website and in our newsletters. 

The Vgrab Application: The Vgrab Application is a free mobile voucher application developed for smartphones using the Android and Apple iOS operating systems and allows users to redeem vouchers on their smartphones at a number of retailers and merchants. Users that download the app and sign up for a free Vgrab account, will be provided with vouchers for discounts and other promotions on certain products and services. Vgrab&#146;s users will have access to an array of exclusive products and/or services that will be available for purchase using accumulated Vgrab &#147;points&#148; and/or through various e-commerce payment methods. The available products will be tailored - statistically - to a users buying preferences both in proposed variety and value range.

The Vgrab Merchant Application: The Vgrab Merchant Application is a user-friendly mobile application for merchants who wish to advertise their products and services. We provide a platform which enables them to dynamically create and publish their vouchers for products/services all in one single merchant application. The use of vouchers will allow merchants to gain more publicity through distribution of free vouchers to users of Vgrab Application. 

The Vmore Platform: The Vmore Platform is an online shopping website in Malaysia. The website is designed to allow merchants to sell their goods to website visitors. Visitors who sign up for a paid membership will have access to an exclusive selection of goods and services. The platform itself, among other technologies, will incorporate geo-targeted advertising and user data statistical analysis, which will enable us to provide our customers with highly personalized content. 

Our applications and the platform will be able to connect both consumer and business in a seamless way bringing significant value and exclusivity. By improving Vgrab technology we will be able to filter information about consumer and merchant browsing behavior. This will allow our customers to create and save electronic shopping lists including available to them vouchers without a need to print or cut coupons. In addition, our cloud sharing technology will be able to deliver to our customers and merchants various information packages. 

Our primary markets for our products are currently the United States and Malaysia. 

Our Strategy 

Our main strategy is the continued development, improvement, innovation and marketing of our Vgrab mobile applications, software and online merchant platforms (collectively, &#147;Vgrab Products&#148;). Once development is finished and refined, we will focus on making Vgrab a destination for consumers to find deals on goods and services. Key elements of our strategy include, but are not limited to:

(1)

enhancing consumer and merchant experience;

(2)

marketing our Vgrab Products;

(3)

global expansion; and

(4)

becoming the first place consumers look for deals on goods and services. 

Our expenditures for the next fiscal year will primarily be associated with the continuous development and testing of our Vgrab Applications and their various elements and functionalities, as well as development and enhancement of the Vmore Platform. For some specific or highly specialized components, including but not limited to statistical analysis, data protection, etc. for the software and its web utilization we may have to seek a top end professional assistance from a third parties both in Malaysia and in US.

We hope to begin our commercial activity in second or third fiscal quarter of 2016 with hopes of reaching a significant number of monthly users toward the end of the year. 

Distribution 

We will distribute our vouchers to customers primarily through three channels: our mobile platform, our website and email. Our mobile platform consists of mobile apps which we currently offer on iOS and Android devices. We will also provide a website via our Vmore Platform which is available on the world wide web.

Competition 

The online marketing and voucher industry is a competitive industry. We do not have a strong position in either the United States or in Malaysia. We also compete with traditional marketing providers and traditional brick and mortar retailers. Our competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources, staff and facilities than us. Our failure to obtain and maintain a competitive position within the market could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Government Regulations 

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. Additionally, these laws and regulations may be interpreted differently across domestic and foreign jurisdictions. As a company in a new industry, we are exposed to certain risks that many of these laws may change and are subject to uncertain interpretations. These laws and regulations may involve intellectual property, product liability and consumer protection, distribution, competition, online payment and point of sale services, employee, merchant and customer privacy and data security, taxes or other areas.

&#160;

Dependence on Major Customers 

We do not have major customers. 

&#160;

Research and Development 

During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015, we incurred $4,470,219 on development of Vgrab application, software and online merchant platforms as compared to $1,122 incurred for software development during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014. 

Of $4,470,219 mentioned above, $166,362 was associated with the continued development of the Vgrab Application and the Vgrab.com website and online merchant platforms and $4,303,857 was associated with the value of 22,500,000 shares of our common stock we issued to Hampshire as consideration for the Vgrab Application. 

Number of Total Employees and Number of Full Time Employees 

We currently have no employees other than our executive officers.

&#160;

&#160;

