 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a leading provider of SaaS solutions that enable our retailer and branded manufacturer customers to integrate, manage and optimize their merchandise sales across hundreds of online channels. Through our platform, we enable our customers to connect with new and existing sources of demand for their products, including e-commerce marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay, Jet.com, Newegg and Sears, search engines and comparison shopping websites, such as Google, Microsoft&#8217;s Bing and Nextag, and emerging channels, such as Facebook and Pinterest. Our suite of solutions, accessed through a standard web browser, provides our customers with a single, integrated user interface to manage their product listings, inventory availability, pricing optimization, search terms, data analytics and other critical functions across these channels. We also offer solutions that allow branded manufacturers to send their web visitors directly to authorized resellers and to gain insight into consumer behavior. Our proprietary cloud-based technology platform delivers significant breadth, scalability and flexibility. In 2015 , our customers processed approximately $6.8 billion &#32;in GMV through our platform. 

We serve customers across a wide range of industries and geographies. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 2,900 &#32;customers worldwide, including 34% &#32;of the top 500 U.S. internet retailers, as ranked by Internet Retailer magazine based on 2014 sales. Our customers include both traditional and online retailers as well as branded manufacturers, which are manufacturers that market the products they produce under their own name. 

E-commerce has grown significantly over the last several years, as consumers have increasingly shifted their retail purchases from traditional brick-and-mortar stores to online stores and marketplaces. This growth has been due to a number of factors, including: 

&#8226; the availability of a broader selection of merchandise online; 

&#8226; consumer convenience and ease of use; 

&#8226; more competitive and transparent pricing; 

&#8226; increased functionality and reliability of e-commerce websites; 

&#8226; the emergence of mobile connected devices and specialized websites; and 

&#8226; the proliferation of online distribution channels. 

As a result of these factors, consumers today have more options than ever before to discover, research and purchase products online. 

While these e-commerce growth drivers create significant opportunity for retailers and branded manufacturers, they also create additional complexity and challenges. Retailers and branded manufacturers seeking new avenues to expand their online sales must manage product data and transactions across hundreds of highly fragmented online channels where data attributes vary, requirements change frequently and the pace of innovation is rapid and increasing. 

We address these challenges by offering retailers and branded manufacturers SaaS solutions that enable them to integrate, manage and optimize their merchandise sales across these disparate online channels. In addition, we facilitate improved collaboration between branded manufacturers and their authorized resellers through solutions that deliver high value leads from branded manufacturers to those resellers. We generate the majority of our revenue from our customers&#8217; access to and usage of our SaaS solutions, which are organized into modules. Each module integrates with a particular type of channel, such as third-party marketplaces, digital marketing websites and authorized reseller websites. Using our solutions, customers can: 

&#8226; connect with new channels and more easily integrate with channels they already use; 

&#8226; access emerging online sources of consumer demand, such as social networks and mobile devices; 

&#8226; adapt to the frequently changing policies and requirements of each channel; 

&#8226; manage real-time inventory allocation and availability across channels; 

&#8226; implement dynamic pricing and promotion strategies across channels; 

&#8226; efficiently manage, evaluate and optimize customer traffic to their own e-commerce websites; 

&#8226; more easily sell into new geographic territories worldwide; 

&#8226; 

provide a seamless consumer journey from branded manufacturer websites and digital marketing campaigns to the e-commerce sites and physical stores of authorized resellers; 

&#8226; 

reduce dependence on in-house information technology staff and avoid significant up-front capital expenses; and 

&#8226; 

access in real-time the latest product and software upgrades that we regularly release on our SaaS platform to keep up with the rapid pace of change and innovation in the market. 

We derive our revenue primarily from subscription fees paid to us by our customers for access to and usage of our SaaS solutions for a specified contract term, which is usually one year. The majority of our subscription fee is based on the amount of a customer's GMV processed on our platform. A portion of the GMV-based subscription fee is typically fixed and is based on a specified minimum amount of GMV that a customer expects to process through our platform. The remaining portion of GMV-based subscription fee is typically variable and is based on a specified percentage of GMV processed through our platform that exceeded the customer&#8217;s specified minimum GMV amount. We believe that our subscription fee pricing model aligns our interests with those of our customers. We also receive implementation fees, which may include fees for providing launch assistance and training. 

Industry Background 

Increasing complexity and fragmentation for retailers and branded manufacturers selling online 

E-commerce is a large and global market that continues to expand as retailers and branded manufacturers continue to increase their online sales. However, it is also an increasingly complex and fragmented market due to the hundreds of channels available to retailers and branded manufacturers and the rapid pace of change and innovation across those channels. Historically, a retailer or branded manufacturer might have simply established an online storefront and used a basic paid search program to drive traffic to its website. Today, in order to gain consumers&#8217; attention in a more crowded and competitive online marketplace, many retailers and an increasing number of branded manufacturers sell their merchandise through multiple online channels, each with its own rules, requirements and specifications. In addition, retailers and branded manufacturers often seek to sell their products in multiple countries, each with its own local consumer preferences and behaviors. 

Several significant trends have contributed to this increasing complexity and fragmentation, including: 

&#8226; 

Emergence and growth of online third-party marketplaces. Third-party marketplaces, which are marketplaces that aggregate many sellers, are an increasingly important driver of growth for a number of large online retailers. Some of these marketplaces, such as Amazon, offer products from their own inventory, known as first-party products, as well as products sold by others, known as third-party products; other marketplaces, such as eBay, offer only third-party products. In addition, several of the largest traditional brick-and-mortar retailers, including Best Buy, Sears, Tesco and Walmart have incorporated third-party marketplaces into their online storefronts, allowing other retailers and branded manufacturers to market their products to consumers they might not otherwise reach. 

&#8226; 

Mainstream adoption of mobile devices for e-commerce . Mobile internet-enabled devices, such as smartphones and tablets, enable new consumer shopping behaviors, such as in-store barcode scanning to find online promotions, better pricing or alternative products, a practice commonly known as &#8220;showrooming.&#8221; While benefiting consumers by increasing the transparency and accessibility of e-commerce, the proliferation of mobile devices and mobile commerce requires retailers and branded manufacturers to build additional device-specific optimization and functionality into their sites, increasing the complexity of managing their online presences. 

&#8226; 

Growth of additional online consumer touch points. As consumers have moved more of their shopping and product discovery online, paid search and comparison shopping sites, as well as branded manufacturer websites, have emerged as key influencers and important points of product research for consumers making purchase decisions. 

&#8226; 

Global growth in e-commerce driving opportunities for international selling. The growth in e-commerce globally presents an opportunity for retailers and branded manufacturers to engage in international sales through country or region-specific marketplaces such as MercadoLibre in Latin America and Alibaba in Asia. Retailers and branded manufacturers seeking to increase international e-commerce often need to extend their online presence to include a variety of these international channels. 

&#8226; 

Widespread use of social networking and commerce applications. The rapid growth of social networking and commerce applications provides a nascent but potentially valuable channel through which retailers and branded manufacturers can connect to consumers. 

&#8226; 

Increase in branded manufacturers&#8217; participation in direct-to-consumer e-commerce . With the rise of Amazon and the struggles of some traditional retail partners, more branded manufacturers are exploring or participating in direct-to-consumer online sales using their own websites and/or third-party marketplaces. However, because those traditional retail partners still represent a majority of revenue for branded manufacturers, many branded manufacturers desire solutions that allow collaboration with those partners in addition to direct-to-consumer solutions. 

Challenges with alternative e-commerce solutions 

The fragmentation and increasing complexity of e-commerce channels is placing greater demands on retailers and branded manufacturers that seek to grow their online sales. These retailers and branded manufacturers require solutions that will enable them to easily integrate their product offerings and inventory across multiple online channels. Traditional solutions, however, typically suffer from several limitations, including the following: 

&#8226; 

In-house solutions are costly and may be slow to adapt to industry change and innovation. To maintain pace with the speed of change and innovation of online channels, retailers and branded manufacturers that rely on in-house capabilities are required to invest in and maintain significant technological infrastructure, human resources and industry relationships. Successful in-house solutions may typically require longer periods of setup time, substantial up-front capital expenditures and significant ongoing maintenance expense. 

&#8226; 

Point solutions are limited in functionality and channels supported. There are numerous narrowly tailored, or point, solutions available for retailers and branded manufacturers to help them manage single online channels or a single category of channels, but these point solutions often do not address the needs of retailers and branded manufacturers seeking to manage pricing and inventory across multiple channels through a single, unified platform. 

&#8226; 

Solutions provided by the channels are not aligned with customers&#8217; broader online goals . Most online channels offer their own solutions that help retailers and branded manufacturers connect with their specific channel and provide basic inventory control and data reporting functionality. By their very nature, however, these solutions are not channel independent and cannot help customers coordinate or optimize their online sales across the multiple online avenues available to them. As with point solutions, retailers and branded manufacturers must work with disparate third-party providers to connect with a broad array of channels, which requires significant time and costs. 

SaaS solutions generally offer customers several distinct advantages over traditional in-house models, known as on-premises solutions, including lower upfront and ongoing costs, faster speed of implementation and less reliance on internal IT staff. 

The ChannelAdvisor Solution 

Our suite of SaaS solutions allows our customers to more easily integrate, manage and optimize their online sales across hundreds of available channels through a single, integrated platform. Our suite of solutions includes a number of individual offerings, or modules. Each module integrates with a particular type of channel, such as third-party marketplaces, digital marketing websites or authorized reseller websites, or supports specific online functionality aimed at customers wanting to establish their own e-commerce presence or enhance the effectiveness of their existing online storefronts, such as creating webstores or employing rich media solutions on their websites. 

Using our cloud-based platform, customers can connect to multiple, disparate channels through a single, user-friendly solution instead of separately integrating with each channel. We provide a single code base and multi-tenant architecture for our platform customers, which means that all platform customers operate on the same version of our software and we do not customize our products for individual platform customers. We provide our customers with access to new and existing online channels and new sources of demand for their products, which can ultimately lead to increased revenue for our customers. 

We believe our suite of solutions offers the following key benefits for our customers: 

&#8226; 

Single, fully integrated solution . Through our SaaS platform, we provide our platform customers with a single web-based interface as the central location for them to control, analyze and manage their online sales across hundreds of available channels and multiple geographies. This unified view enables our customers to more cost-effectively manage product listings, inventory availability, pricing optimization, search terms, data analytics and other critical functions across channels based on the customer&#8217;s specified rules and performance metrics in order to drive traffic and increase revenue. 

&#8226; 

Reduced integration costs, time to market and dependence on in-house resources . Customers can more easily and quickly introduce their products, both to channels on which they already have a presence and to new channels, without the costs related to installing and maintaining their own hardware and software infrastructure. A customer&#8217;s initial installation and integration of our solutions can often be completed in less than two months, with additional modules of our software generally available immediately without incurring significant additional resources to integrate. We manage and host our solutions on behalf of our customers, thereby reducing the customer&#8217;s cost and dependency on dedicated IT staff or on-premises systems. 

&#8226; 

Scalable technology platform . In 2015 , our customers processed approximately $6.8 billion &#32;in GMV through our platform. We believe that the scalability of our platform allows us to quickly and efficiently support an increasing number of product listings and transactions processed through our platform as we add new customers, integrate new channels and accommodate seasonal surges in consumer demand. 

&#8226; 

Flexibility to adapt and instantaneous access to our most up-to-date capabilities . &#160; &#32;Channels are frequently updating their product information requirements, policies, merchandising strategies and integration specifications, requiring customers to frequently revise their product listings, attributes, business rules and possibly even their overall online business strategies. Without the ability to quickly adapt to these changes, customers risk losing revenue. Through our single code base and multi-tenant architecture, we provide platform customers the latest channel updates through regular product upgrades. When we develop and deploy new features, functions and capabilities, or make changes to keep up with the changing priorities and requirements of each channel, our customers simultaneously benefit from those new capabilities and changes. 

&#8226; 

Data and reporting analytics . Through our data and reporting analytics, we provide our customers with insight into the latest channel and consumer trends and general product performance. Our dashboards highlight sales trends, top performing products, seller reputation and repricing activity, among other key performance indicators, and alert customers to issues and errors in product listings. These capabilities provide actionable insights that allow customers to evaluate and, if necessary, improve the efficiency of their business rules on existing or new channels. 

We offer our platform customers the choice of self-service accounts or managed-service accounts. Self-service customers operate our software themselves, while managed-service customers generally outsource most or all of the management of one or more channels to our professional services team, which then operates our software on the customer&#8217;s behalf based on the customer's instructions. 

Our Products 

The ChannelAdvisor Platform 

We automate the workflow through which retailers and branded manufacturers manage their sales through online channels. Our suite of solutions includes the following key capabilities: 

&#8226; 

Inventory and order management . &#160; We provide a platform for our customers to upload and modify their product catalog data, monitor inventory stock levels and create a single inventory feed that serves multiple available online channels. Managing inventory and order data is the foundation for much of the customer activity on our platform. We offer a variety of ways for customers to enter and modify product data, including through a sophisticated user interface, file exchange and application programming interfaces, or APIs. Our inventory system is capable of scaling across thousands of customers during critical selling periods, such as the year-end holiday season. The flexibility of the system allows each customer to customize the inventory data specific to its products, such as size, color, height and width, and to vary the format of the data to meet the specific requirements of each channel. Our platform provides various features that allow a customer to list products on multiple channels while mitigating the risk of overselling. These features include the ability to allocate inventory across channels, set buffer quantities to avoid overselling and receive automatic updates based on changes to the customer&#8217;s inventory. 

&#8226; 

Product matching. Once inventory is loaded into the platform, we provide features that improve our customer&#8217;s ability to successfully list its products on the various channels. Depending on the needs of the particular channel, we are able to pre-validate the customer&#8217;s data and formats before sending them to the channel, reducing errors caused by poor data quality and thus reducing the time it takes to list products on that channel. On some channels, we employ advanced product-matching algorithms that are designed to accurately place the customer&#8217;s product offerings within the channel&#8217;s product classification taxonomy. 

&#8226; 

Business rules and templates. Our platform offers tools that enable a customer to develop and manage sophisticated business rules and product listing templates that automatically determine how and when the product will be displayed in each channel. Through a single interface, a platform customer can utilize these tools to customize product listing descriptions across various channels using different attributes, such as price, time of day and competitive dynamics. For example, a consumer electronics retailer can automatically advertise tens of thousands of products on multiple channels while ensuring real-time accuracy of product availability, optimizing price and managing to specific margin thresholds, all at an individual product level. 

&#8226; 

Price optimization. Our platform provides customers the ability to dynamically price their products across some of our available channels based on a number of factors, such as prices of competitors, margin thresholds and promotions. Prices can vary by channel and, using our sophisticated technology, a customer can automatically update pricing based on the competitive environment. The customer avoids the manual effort of monitoring the competition and changing prices, while preserving the ability to remain price competitive. 

&#8226; 

Proprietary reporting and analytics. We provide proprietary reporting and analytics capabilities that allow our customers to view general product performance and trends affecting their consumer base across multiple channels and to obtain detailed performance data at a channel or stock-keeping unit level that can be used in a particular online sales campaign. Our dashboards highlight sales trends, top performing products, seller reputation and repricing activity, among other key performance indicators. The dashboards also alert customers to issues or errors, such as data that is in a form inconsistent with the requirements of a particular channel. These capabilities provide actionable insights that allow customers to revise their business rules and listings on a real-time basis with the goal of improving their sales and profitability. 

&#8226; 

Developer ecosystem. We offer third-party developers of complementary e-commerce solutions access to our platform through APIs. These APIs enable these third-party developers to build connections to our platform that meet their specific needs without requiring us to offer customized software code to them. We currently provide APIs to hundreds of third-party developers who have integrated their solutions with ours. For example, our API integrates our platform with business software provided by NetSuite, a provider of SaaS enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management and e-commerce solutions, to further streamline our joint customers&#8217; e-commerce operations. 

Individual Modules 

We offer our software suite to customers through a series of modules. Generally, each of our modules is priced individually and is integrated with our platform&#8217;s underlying inventory management system, templates, rules and reporting systems. The primary modules we offer are: 

&#8226; 

Marketplaces . Our Marketplaces module connects customers to third-party marketplaces including Amazon, Best Buy, eBay, Jet.com, La Redoute, Newegg, Sears, Tesco, TradeMe and Zalando. Our new standardized integration API, launched in 2015, which we refer to as Access ChannelAdvisor, allows additional e-commerce channels to integrate with our platform requiring less support on launch, which we believe will result in a broader array of channels available to our customers. 

&#8226; 

Digital Marketing . Our Digital Marketing module connects customers to comparison shopping websites such as Google Shopping, Nextag and PriceGrabber, allows customers to advertise products on search engines such as Google, Microsoft's Bing and Yahoo! and connects customers to social commerce sites such as Facebook, Polyvore and Pinterest. Our Digital Marketing module also includes Flex Feeds, which allow customers to generate and send customized product data feeds to their partners, such as affiliate networks, retargeting vendors, personalization vendors and product review platforms. 

&#8226; 

Where to Buy . Our Where to Buy solution allows branded manufacturers to provide their web visitors or customers of their digital marketing initiatives with up-to-date information about the authorized resellers that carry their products and the availability of those products. This provides consumers with an easier path to purchase from an authorized reseller of their choice. The solution improves the consumer experience and helps branded manufacturers gain a better understanding of consumer behavior through detailed data about the flow of traffic between the branded manufacturer and retailer. 

Our Customers 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 2,900 &#32;customers worldwide, including retail and branded manufacturer customers across many consumer product categories, and served 34% &#32;of the top 500 U.S. internet retailers, as ranked by Internet Retailer magazine based on 2014 sales. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our ten largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 6.5% &#32;of our total revenue. No single customer accounted for more than 1.0% &#32;of our total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Our Technology Platform 

We have developed our proprietary technology platform over more than a decade with a focus on delivering industry-leading breadth, scalability, reliability and flexibility. Our platform has always been cloud-based and SaaS, with a single code base and multi-tenant software architecture. Because of this, there is no need for our customers to download, install or upgrade software. 

We develop our software using rapid iterations through small, incremental changes that are continuously integrated into our code base. We generally release new versions of our software approximately every 30 days, except during certain holiday seasons. Incremental improvements may be released on daily and weekly schedules. Through our single code base and multi-tenant software architecture, our customers benefit from our new capabilities as soon as they are made available. 

We physically host our platform in three secure third-party data center facilities located in North America. We deploy both hardware we own and hardware we lease, including servers, networking systems and storage systems, in these data center facilities. We use hardware and software virtualization to maximize the utilization we achieve from our hardware systems. The data center facilities are biometrically secured, environmentally controlled and redundantly powered. We employ system security, including firewalls, encryption technology and antivirus software, and we conduct regular system tests and vulnerability and intrusion assessments. In the event of failure, we have engineered our systems with backup and recovery capabilities designed to provide for business continuity within each data center. We also make use of third-party cloud-based systems, such as content delivery networks, to push some of our storage and processing into the cloud. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts are focused on enhancing the architecture of our technology platform, creating additional functionality for our customers, enhancing our external developer APIs and maintaining and extending the various points of integration we have to the online channels we support. We incurred research and development costs of $16.1 million , $16.2 million &#32;and $12.4 million &#32;during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Competition 

The market for products that help retailers and branded manufacturers reach online consumers is competitive. The competitive dynamics of our market are unpredictable because it is in an early stage of development, rapidly evolving, fragmented and subject to potential disruption by new technological innovations and the ability of channels to compete with us or make changes to which we need to rapidly adapt. 

Several competitors provide solutions that compete with some of the capabilities of our platform, including those who provide software or services to connect retailers and branded manufacturers with one or more online channels. We also compete with in-house solutions used by retailers and branded manufacturers that elect to build and maintain their own proprietary integrations to online channels. In addition, we compete with the channels themselves, which typically offer software tools, often for free, allowing retailers and branded manufacturers to connect to them. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry include: 

&#8226; industry expertise and thought leadership; 

&#8226; relationships with leading online channels; 

&#8226; relationships with leading retailers and branded manufacturers; 

&#8226; channel independence; 

&#8226; breadth of online channels supported; 

&#8226; integration of capabilities; 

&#8226; proven and scalable technology; and 

&#8226; brand awareness and reputation. 

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of these factors. 

Intellectual Property 

Our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our technology, will be an important factor in the success and continued growth of our business. We protect our intellectual property through trade secrets law, patents, copyrights, trademarks and contracts. Some of our technology relies upon third-party licensed intellectual property. 

We have patent applications pending in the United States and Brazil and expect to apply for additional patents to protect our intellectual property as appropriate. We own U.S., European Union, Australian, China and Hong Kong trademark registrations for ChannelAdvisor and have trademark registrations pending in other countries. 

In addition to the foregoing, we have established business procedures designed to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, including the use of confidentiality agreements and assignment-of-inventions agreements with employees, independent contractors, consultants and companies with which we conduct business. 

Backlog 

Backlog represents the total committed subscription fees to be received under our customer contracts that has not yet been recognized as revenue. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our backlog was approximately $50.3 million &#32;and $43.4 million , respectively. 

Our customer contracts usually have a term of one year, and therefore the substantial majority of our backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue within the one-year contract term. Revenue for any period is a function of revenue recognized from deferred revenue, backlog under contracts in existence at the beginning of the period, as well as contract renewals and new customer contracts during the period. As a result, our backlog at the beginning of any period is not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Our presentation of backlog may differ from other companies in our industry. 

Government Regulation 

The legal environment of the internet is evolving rapidly in the United States and elsewhere. The manner in which existing laws and regulations will be applied to the internet in general, and how they will relate to our business in particular, both in the United States and internationally, are often unclear. For example, we often cannot be certain how existing laws will apply in the e-commerce and online context, including with respect to such topics as privacy, pricing, credit card fraud, advertising, taxation, content regulation, quality of products and services and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Furthermore, it is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as sales and other taxes and personal privacy will apply to the internet, as many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the internet or e-commerce. It is also unclear how the laws that do reference the internet will be interpreted by courts, which may impact their applicability and scope. Compliance may be costly and may require us to modify our business practices and product offerings. In addition, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on the websites of our customers or may even attempt to completely block access to those websites. Noncompliance or perceived noncompliance could also subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. Accordingly, adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our business. 

Customers load product information and other content onto our platform, generally without any control or oversight by us, at which point we may legally be considered to be the distributor of that content. This presents legal challenges to our business and operations, such as rights of privacy or intellectual property rights related to the content loaded onto our platform. Both in the United States and internationally, we must monitor and comply with a host of legal concerns regarding the content loaded onto our platform. The scope of our liability for third-party content loaded to our platform for delivery to various online e-commerce channels may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may vary depending on the type of claim, such as privacy, infringement or defamation claims. Our ability to employ processes to quickly remove infringing or offending content from our platform, for example, is an important tool in protecting us from exposure for the potentially infringing activities of our users worldwide. We also incorporate protections in customer contracts that allow us to take steps, if needed, to limit our risk regarding much of the content loaded onto, and collected by, our platform and solutions. 

Numerous laws and regulatory schemes have been adopted at the national and state level in the United States and internationally that have a direct impact on our business and operations. These laws include, but are not limited to, the following: 

Copyright and trademark . The Copyright Act of 1976 and the statutes and regulations associated with copyrights and trademarks and enforced by the United States Patent and Trademark Office are intended to protect the rights of third parties from infringement. Using our automated service, customers can generally upload any content they designate for use with our solutions. We maintain an active copyright and trademark infringement policy and respond to take-down requests by third-party intellectual property right owners that might result from content posted by our customers using our solutions. As our business expands to other countries, we must also respond to regional and country-specific intellectual property considerations, including take-down and cease and desist notices in foreign languages, and we must build infrastructure to support these processes. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, also applies to our business. This statute provides relief for claims of circumvention of copyright-protected technologies but includes a safe harbor that is intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Our copyright and trademark infringement policy is intended to satisfy the DMCA safe harbor in order to reduce our liability for customer-generated materials incorporated into our platform. 

Data privacy and security . Data privacy and security with respect to the collection of personally identifiable information continues to be a focus of worldwide legislation and compliance review. Examples include statutes adopted by the State of California that require online services to report breaches of the security of personal data, and to report to California customers when their personal data might be disclosed to direct marketers. In the European Union, U.S. companies must protect personal data in accordance with the Data Protection Directive (and local implementing legislation in relevant jurisdictions), which requires comprehensive information privacy and security protections for consumers with respect to information collected about them. Compliance requirements include disclosures, consents, transfer restrictions, notice and access provisions for which we may in the future need to build further infrastructure to support. Our prior approach to compliance with the Data Protection Directive was via the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and the U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor Framework as agreed to and set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union concerning U.S. companies doing business in Europe and collecting personal information from European citizens. On October 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice declared the Safe Harbor Framework invalid, and on February 2, 2016, the European Commission and the United States announced that they have agreed on a new framework for transatlantic data transfers. The details remain to be announced and formally approved, and we may be able to register under this framework as we did under the previous framework. As a result of this and the ongoing legislative activity in Europe, data protection requirements are likely to change in the coming months. We will continue to follow developments and work to maintain conforming means of transferring data from Europe, but despite our efforts to address the changes, we may be unsuccessful in establishing conforming means of transferring data from Europe. 

We post on our website our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by governmental or regulatory bodies that could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the U.S. Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues that could affect our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in customers and revenue. These decreases could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before prospective buyers can interact with our customers. For example, we have had to work with our customers to comply with the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 instituted by the United Kingdom, commonly referred to as the UK Cookie Law, which was designed to protect computer users from technologies identifying their computers and specified activities conducted on those computers without the users&#8217; consent. We use tracking technology 

to track purchases from our customers through our platform, in order to calculate variable subscription fees owed by our customers, among other things. Prohibiting or inhibiting such tracking could make it difficult or impossible to monitor our variable subscription fees. The interpretation and implementation of processes to comply with the UK Cookie Law continues to evolve, and we cannot predict how any new laws will apply to us or our business. Similar &#8220;do not track&#8221; legislative proposals have been considered in the United States at the federal level, although none have been enacted to date. If enacted, such legislative proposals could prohibit or restrict the use of certain technologies, including tracking technology. 

Unsolicited e-mails and communications . The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states regulate unsolicited commercial e-mails, create criminal penalties for unmarked sexually-oriented material and e-mails containing fraudulent headers and control other abusive online marketing practices. Similarly, FTC guidelines impose responsibilities upon us and our customers for communications with consumers and impose fines and liability for any failure to comply with rules relating to advertising or marketing practices that the FTC may deem misleading or deceptive. The European Union also maintains standards and regulations with respect to communications with consumers that we must comply with as we expand our marketing practices into those countries or with which our customers, utilizing our solutions, must comply. Some ways we seek to comply with these measures include requiring our customers to communicate with their consumers in order to comply with laws concerning spam and unsolicited emails and establishing processes to allow direct receivers of e-mail marketing communications from us to opt out of future communications. 

Credit card protections . We collect credit card data in processing the fees paid to us by our customers, as well as consumer credit card information when our customers use some of our solutions. Several major credit card companies have formed the Payment Card Industry Council, or PCI Council, in order to establish and implement security standards for companies that transmit, store or process credit card data. The PCI Council has created the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS. Though the PCI DSS is not law, merchants using PCI Council members to process transactions are required to comply with the PCI DSS, with associated fines and penalties for non-compliance. Elements of the PCI DSS have begun to emerge as law in some states, however, and we expect the trend to continue as to further laws and restrictions in collecting and using credit card information. All of our solutions, to the extent they involve the collection of consumer credit card information, are PCI DSS compliant. We assess our compliance with the PCI DSS on an annual basis. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 601 &#32;employees, most of whom are located in the United States. Certain of our employees in various countries outside of the United States are subject to laws providing representation rights. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Part II, Item 8. "Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Information" of this Annual Report. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in June 2001. Our principal executive offices are located at 3025 Carrington Mill Boulevard, Morrisville, North Carolina. Our telephone number is (919) 228-4700. 

Available Information 

Our internet website address is www.channeladvisor.com. In addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report, information about us can be found on our website. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Annual Report. 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The public may read and copy the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. The address of the SEC's website is www.sec.gov. 

