 Item 1&#8212;Business 

An Overview of Our Business 

Nature of Our Business 

We are an international specialty finance company providing debt recovery solutions for consumers and property owners across a broad range of financial assets. 

Portfolio Purchasing and Recovery Business 

We purchase portfolios of defaulted consumer receivables at deep discounts to face value and manage them by working with individuals as they repay their obligations and work toward financial recovery. Defaulted receivables are consumers&#8217; unpaid financial commitments to credit originators, including banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, commercial retailers, and telecommunication companies. Defaulted receivables may also include receivables subject to bankruptcy proceedings. 

United States 

Through certain subsidiaries, we are a market leader in portfolio purchasing and recovery in the United States, including Puerto Rico. 

Europe 

Through our controlling interest in United Kingdom-based Cabot Credit Management Limited (&#8220;Cabot&#8221;), we are a market leader in debt management in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Cabot specializes in collecting higher balance, &#8220;semi-performing&#8221; accounts ( i.e. , debt portfolios in which over 50% of the accounts have received a payment in three of the last four months immediately prior to the portfolio purchase). In February 2014, Cabot acquired Marlin Financial Group Limited (&#8220;Marlin&#8221;), a leading acquirer of non-performing consumer debt in the United Kingdom. Marlin is differentiated by its use of litigation-enhanced collections for non-paying financial services receivables, which complements Cabot&#8217;s management of semi-performing accounts. On June 1, 2015, Cabot continued to expand in the United Kingdom with its acquisition of Hillesden Securities Ltd and its subsidiaries (&#8220;dlc&#8221;). 

We own a majority ownership interest in Grove Holdings (&#8220;Grove&#8221;). Through its subsidiaries Grove is a leading specialty investment firm focused on consumer non-performing loans, including insolvencies in the United Kingdom (in particular, individual voluntary arrangements, or IVAs) and bank and non-bank receivables in Spain. To date, operating results from Grove have been immaterial to our total consolidated operating results. As a result, descriptions of our international operations in Part I - Item 1 of this Form 10-K will focus substantially on our combined Cabot operations and will not include a detailed discussion of Grove&#8217;s operations. 

Latin America 

Through our majority ownership interest in Refinancia S.A. (&#8220;Refinancia&#8221;), we are a market leader in debt collection and management in Colombia and Peru. In addition to purchasing defaulted receivables, Refinancia offers portfolio management services to banks for non-performing loans. Refinancia also specializes in non-traditional niches in the geographic areas in which it operates, including providing financial solutions to individuals who have previously defaulted on their obligations. In addition to operations in Colombia and Peru, we evaluate and purchase non-performing loans in other countries in Latin America, including Mexico and Brazil. Beginning in December 2014, we began investing in non-performing secured residential mortgages in Latin America. To date, operating results from our Latin America operations have not been significant to our total consolidated operating results. As a result, descriptions of our international operations in Part 1 - Item 1 of this Form 10-K will not include a detailed discussion of our Latin American operations. 

Asia Pacific 

Through our majority ownership interest in Baycorp Holdings Pty Limited (&#8220;Baycorp&#8221;), acquired in October 2015, we are one of Australasia's leading debt resolution specialists. Baycorp specializes in the management of non-performing loans in Australia and New Zealand. In addition to purchasing defaulted receivables, Baycorp offers portfolio management services to banks for non-performing loans. To date, Baycorp&#8217;s operating results have been immaterial to our total consolidated operating results. As a result, descriptions of our international operations in Part 1 - Item 1 of this Form 10-K will not include a detailed discussion of Baycorp&#8217;s operations. 

Accounts originated in the United States are serviced through our call centers in the United States, India and Costa Rica. Beginning in January 2014, our India call center also began to service Cabot&#8217;s United Kingdom accounts. The balance of our accounts is serviced in the country of origin for such accounts. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to our United States operations, we include accounts originated in the United States that are serviced through our call centers in 

the United States, India and Costa Rica. When we refer to our international operations, we are referring to accounts originated outside of the United States. 

Tax Lien Business 

Through our subsidiary, Propel Acquisition, LLC and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, &#8220;Propel&#8221;), we acquire and service residential and commercial tax liens on real property. To the extent permitted by local law, Propel works directly with property owners to structure affordable payment plans by paying delinquent property taxes on behalf of such property owners in exchange for payment agreements collateralized by tax liens on the related properties and purchases tax liens directly from taxing authorities in several states. &#160; 

In order to improve our overall corporate invested capital returns, reduce our debt, provide liquidity, and allow us to tighten our focus on expanding our market leadership in debt buying and servicing in the U.S. and around the world, on February 19, 2016, we entered into an agreement with certain funds to sell 100% of our membership interests in Propel. The estimated sales price indicated that Propel&#8217;s fair value was less than its carrying value at December 31, 2015 and, as a result, goodwill at this reporting unit was impaired. Based on the estimated sales price, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $49.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The goodwill impairment charge had no cash flow impact. Refer to Note 17, &#8220;Subsequent Event&#8221; and Note 15, &#8220;Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements for further information on the sale of Propel and the goodwill impairment. 

During the course of our ownership, excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge discussed above, Propel contributed $20.6 million of earnings and $35.7 million of EBITDA through December 31, 2015. Including the effect of this non-cash goodwill impairment charge, the cumulative net loss after the benefit for income taxes amounted to approximately $10.5 million. 

Keys to Success 

The foundation of our success is our people, our organizational agility, and our integrity. This foundation supports strengths in four key areas, which we refer to as our pillars: 

&#8226; 

Superior Analytics , including our extensive investments in data and behavioral science and our use of sophisticated predictive modeling techniques; 

&#8226; 

Operational Scale and Cost Leadership , driven by our specialized call centers, efficient international operations, and the continuing expansion of our internal legal platform; 

&#8226; 

Strong Capital Stewardship , underpinned by our disciplined ability to raise and deploy capital prudently; and 

&#8226; 

Extendable Business Model , driven by our scalable platform that supports strategic investment opportunities in new asset classes and geographic areas. 

Although we have enabled millions of consumers to retire a portion of their outstanding debt, one of the debt collection industry&#8217;s most formidable challenges is that many financially distressed consumers will never make a payment, much less retire their total debt obligation. In fact, we generate payments from less than one percent of our accounts every month. To address these challenges, we evaluate portfolios of receivables that are available for purchase using robust, account-level valuation methods, and we employ proprietary statistical and behavioral models across all our operations. We believe these business practices contribute to our ability to value portfolios accurately, avoid buying portfolios that are incompatible with our methods or goals, and align the accounts we purchase with our operational channels to maximize future collections. We also have one of the industry&#8217;s largest databases of financially distressed consumers. We believe that our specialized knowledge, along with our investments in data and analytic tools, have enabled us to realize significant returns from the receivables we have acquired. We maintain strong relationships with many of the largest credit providers in the United States. In addition, through our international subsidiaries, we maintain strong relationships with many of the largest credit providers in the European and the Latin American markets we serve. 

Seasonality 

United States 

While seasonality does not have a material impact on our portfolio purchasing and recovery segment, collections are generally strongest in our first calendar quarter, slower in the second and third calendar quarters, and slowest in the fourth calendar quarter. Relatively higher collections in the first quarter could result in a lower cost-to-collect ratio compared to the other quarters, as our fixed costs are relatively constant and applied against a larger collection base. The seasonal impact on our business may also be influenced by our purchasing levels, the types of portfolios we purchase, and our operating strategies. 

Collection seasonality with respect to our portfolio purchasing and recovery segment can also affect revenue as a percentage of collections, also referred to as our revenue recognition rate. Generally, revenue for each pool group declines steadily over time, whereas collections can fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on seasonality, as described above. In quarters with lower collections ( e.g., the fourth calendar quarter), the revenue recognition rate can be higher than in quarters with higher collections ( e.g., the first calendar quarter). 

In addition, seasonality could have an impact on the relative level of quarterly earnings. In quarters with stronger collections, total costs are higher as a result of the additional efforts required to generate those collections. Since revenue for each pool group declines steadily over time, in quarters with higher collections and higher costs ( e.g., the first calendar quarter), all else being equal, earnings could be lower than in quarters with lower collections and lower costs ( e.g., the fourth calendar quarter). Additionally, in quarters where a greater percentage of collections come from our legal and agency outsourcing channels, cost to collect will be higher than if there were more collections from our internal collection sites. 

International 

While seasonality does not have a material impact on Cabot&#8217;s operations, collections are generally strongest in the second and third calendar quarters and slower in the first and fourth quarters, largely driven by the impact of the December holiday season and the New Year holiday, and the related impact on customers&#8217; ability to repay their balances. This drives a higher level of plan defaults over this period, which are typically repaired across the first quarter of the following year. The August vacation season in the United Kingdom also has an unfavorable effect on the level of collections, but this is traditionally compensated for by higher collections in July and September. 

Operating Segments 

We conduct business through two reportable segments: portfolio purchasing and recovery, and tax lien business. Financial information regarding our operating segments and geographic operations is set forth in Note 14 , &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements. 

Company Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1999. Our headquarters is located at 3111 Camino Del Rio North, Suite 103, San Diego, California 92108 and our telephone number is (877) 445-4581. Investors wishing to obtain more information about us may access the Investors section of our Internet site at http://www.encorecapital.com . The site provides access, free of charge, to relevant investor related information, such as Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) filings, press releases, featured articles, an event calendar, and frequently asked questions. SEC filings are available on our Internet site as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Also available on our website are our Standards of Business Conduct and charters for the committees of our board of directors. We intend to disclose any amendment to, or waiver of, a provision of our Standards of Business Conduct on our website. The content of our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any materials that we filed with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (http://www.sec.gov). 

Our Competitive Advantages 

Analytic Strength. We believe that success in our portfolio purchasing and recovery business depends on our ability to establish and maintain an information advantage. Leveraging an industry-leading financially distressed consumer database, our in-house team of statisticians, business analysts, and software programmers have developed, and continually enhance, proprietary behavioral and valuation models, custom software applications, and other business tools that guide our portfolio purchases. Moreover, our collection channels are informed by powerful statistical models specific to each collection activity, and each year we deploy significant capital to purchase credit bureau and customized consumer data that describe demographic, account level, and macroeconomic factors related to credit, savings, and payment behavior. Our recent international expansion has enabled us to collaborate across our operating subsidiaries to employ and enhance our statistical models throughout the markets we service. 

Consumer Intelligence. At the core of our analytic approach is a focus on characterizing our consumers&#8217; willingness and ability to repay their financial obligations. In this effort, we apply tools and methods from statistics, psychology, economics, and management science across the full extent of our business. During portfolio valuation, we use an internally developed and proprietary family of statistical models that determines the likelihood and expected amount of payment for each consumer within a portfolio. Subsequently, the expectations for each account are aggregated to arrive at a portfolio-level liquidation solution and a valuation for the entire portfolio is determined. During the collection process, we apply a number of proprietary operational frameworks to match our collection approach to an individual consumer&#8217;s payment behavior. 

Cost Leadership. Cost efficiency is central to our collection and purchasing strategies. We experience considerable cost advantages, stemming from our operations in India and Costa Rica, our enterprise-wide, activity-level cost database, and the development and implementation of operational models that enhance profitability. We believe that we are the only company in our industry with a successful, late-stage collection platform in India. This cost-saving, first-mover advantage helps to reduce our call center variable cost-to-collect. 

Principled Intent. Across the full extent of our operations, we strive to treat consumers with respect, compassion, and integrity. From discounts and payment plans to hardship solutions, we work with our consumers as they attempt to return to financial health. We are committed to dialogue that is honorable and constructive, and hope to play an important and positive role in our consumers&#8217; financial recovery. We believe that our interests, and those of the financial institutions from which we purchase portfolios, are closely aligned with the interests of government agencies seeking to protect consumer rights. In 2011, we unveiled the industry&#8217;s first and only Consumer Bill of Rights, which codifies our commitment to respectful consumer treatment. &#32; We expect to continue investing in infrastructure and processes that support consumer advocacy and financial literacy while promoting an appropriate balance between corporate and consumer responsibility. 

Our Strategy 

We have implemented a business strategy that emphasizes the following three elements: 

Continue to Invest in our Core Businesses. Our core domestic portfolio purchasing and recovery business remains critical to our success. Supply and demand dynamics within the United States have fluctuated over time and will likely continue to do so. To position ourselves to continue to generate strong risk-adjusted returns in this environment, we continue to make investments in analytics, technology, risk management, compliance, and initiatives to enhance our relationships with consumers and improve liquidation rates on our portfolios. We intend to continue to deploy a meaningful amount of capital in our core domestic markets. Our 2014 acquisition of Atlantic Credit &#38; Finance, Inc. (&#8220;Atlantic&#8221;) reflects a strategic decision to expand our core domestic portfolio purchasing and recovery presence. Atlantic is a market leader in buying and collecting on freshly charged-off debt, which was not an area of strength for us prior to our acquisition of Atlantic. Combined with our expertise in later stage collections, we believe Atlantic has positioned us to be more competitive in the market. 

Expand into New Geographies . We believe we are well-positioned to take a leading role, worldwide, in the distressed debt and subprime consumer financial sectors. Our current footprint includes our industry-leading U.S. and U.K. core debt recovery businesses, our presence in Spain, our entrance into the Latin American and Australasian debt markets, and our international operations through our India and Costa Rica locations. In addition, we are constantly evaluating additional investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses in order to expand into new geographic markets. For example, we have announced plans to commence portfolio purchasing and recovery operations in India. As portfolio prices fluctuate and the complexity of our industry continues to increase, we expect that our international operations will continue to provide a significant competitive advantage. 

Explore Business Model Adjacencies and Expansion. We are working to leverage some of our core competencies, such as our knowledge of financially distressed consumers, in other areas or for new types of defaulted consumer receivables. We believe that our existing underwriting and collection processes can be extended to a variety of consumer receivables. These capabilities may allow us to develop and provide complementary products or services to specified financially distressed consumer segments. 

Acquisition of Portfolio Purchasing and Recovery Receivables 

We provide sellers of delinquent receivables liquidity and immediate value through the purchase of charged-off consumer receivables. We believe that we are an appealing partner for these sellers given our financial strength, focus on principled intent, and track record of financial success. 

United States 

Identify purchase opportunities. We maintain relationships with some of the largest credit originators and portfolio resellers of charged-off consumer receivables in the United States. We identify purchase opportunities and secure, where possible, exclusive negotiation rights. We believe that we are a valued partner for credit originators and portfolio resellers from whom we purchase portfolios, and our ability to secure exclusive negotiation rights is typically a result of our strong relationships and our purchasing scale. Receivable portfolios are sold either through a general auction, where the seller requests bids from market participants, or through an exclusive negotiation, where the seller and buyer negotiate a sale privately. The sale transaction can be either for a one-time spot purchase or for a &#8220;forward flow&#8221; contract. A &#8220;forward flow&#8221; contract is a commitment to purchase receivables over a duration that is typically three to twelve months with specifically defined volume, frequency, and pricing. Typically, these forward flow contracts have provisions that allow for early termination or price re-negotiation should the underlying quality of the portfolio deteriorate over time or if any particular month&#8217;s delivery is materially different than the original portfolio used to price the forward flow contract. We generally attempt to secure forward 

flow contracts for receivables because a consistent volume of receivables over a set duration can allow us more precision in forecasting and planning our operational needs. 

Evaluate purchase opportunities using account-level analytics. Once a portfolio of interest is identified, we obtain detailed information regarding the portfolio&#8217;s accounts, including certain information regarding the consumers themselves. We then purchase additional information for the consumers whose accounts we are contemplating purchasing, including credit, savings, or payment behavior. Our Decision Science team, responsible for asset valuation, statistical analysis, and forecasting, then analyzes this information to determine the expected value of each potential new consumer. Our collection expectations are based on these demographic data, account characteristics, and economic variables, which we use to predict a consumer&#8217;s willingness and ability to repay his or her debt. The expected value of collections for each account is aggregated to calculate an overall value for the portfolio. Additional adjustments are made to account for qualitative factors that may affect the payment behavior of our consumers (such as prior collection activities, or the underwriting approach of the seller), and servicing related adjustments to ensure our valuations are aligned with our operations. 

Formal approval process. Once we have determined the value of the portfolio and have completed our qualitative diligence, we present the purchase opportunity to our investment committee, which either sets the maximum purchase price for the portfolio based on a corporate Internal Rate of Return (&#8220;IRR&#8221;) or other strategic objectives or declines to bid. Members of the investment committee include our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, other members of our senior management team, and experts, as needed. 

We believe long-term success is best achieved by combining a diverse asset sourcing approach with an account-level scoring methodology and a disciplined evaluation process. 

International 

Through Cabot, we maintain strong relationships with many of the largest financial service providers in the United Kingdom. Cabot primarily acquires receivable portfolios in negotiated spot transactions, but it also participates in auctions on occasion. In addition, Cabot purchases a small number of portfolios by entering into forward flow agreements, although it has substantially moved away from these arrangements. 

When Cabot identifies a portfolio of interest, it evaluates account-level information and performs due diligence to evaluate certain features of the portfolio. Cabot next applies its proprietary, highly automated portfolio pricing models to further evaluate the portfolio, using separate models depending on the type of account: a paying model for semi-performing accounts and a regression model for non-performing accounts. Using its substantial database of account holder information, Cabot carries out additional statistical analysis that is customized to evaluate specific repayment characteristics to further evaluate the accounts. The results of due diligence and the outputs of the pricing models and data analysis is presented to Cabot&#8217;s pricing committee, which then decides whether to make an indicative bid for the portfolio. If, following the indicative bid, Cabot is short-listed by the vendor, it then conducts further due diligence on the portfolio and refines its analysis. Following this additional due diligence, the pricing committee decides whether to submit a final binding offer for the portfolio. 

All purchases require approval by the pricing committee. Cabot&#8217;s pricing committee includes its Chief Executive Officer, Financial Director and Chief Investment Officer. We believe that Cabot&#8217;s significant industry and management experience enable it to make informed decisions about the portfolios we acquire through Cabot. 

Portfolio Purchasing and Recovery Collection Approach 

United States 

We expand and build upon the insight developed during our purchase process when developing our account collection strategies for portfolios we have acquired. Our proprietary consumer-level collectability analysis is the primary determinant of whether an account is actively serviced post-purchase. Generally, we pursue collection activities on only a fraction of the accounts we purchase, through one or more of our collection channels. The channel identification process is analogous to a decision tree where we first differentiate those consumers who we believe are unable to pay from those who we believe are able to pay. Consumers who we believe are financially incapable of making any payments, or are facing extenuating circumstances or hardships that would prevent them from making payments, are excluded from our collection process. It is our practice to assess each consumer&#8217;s willingness to pay through analytics, phone calls and/or letters. Despite our efforts to reach consumers and work out a settlement plan, only a small number of consumers who we contact choose to engage with us. Those who do are often offered discounts on their obligations or are presented with payment plans that are intended to suit their needs. However, the majority of consumers we contact do not respond to our calls or our letters and we must then make the decision about whether to pursue collections through legal action. Throughout our ownership period, we periodically refine our collection approach to determine the most effective collection strategy to pursue for each account. These strategies consist of: 

&#8226; 

Inactive . We strive to use our financial resources judiciously and efficiently by not deploying resources on accounts where the prospects of collection are remote based on a consumer&#8217;s situation. 

&#8226; 

Direct Mail . We develop innovative, low-cost mail campaigns offering consumers appropriate discounts to encourage settlement of their accounts. 

&#8226; 

Call Centers . We maintain domestic collection call centers in Phoenix, Arizona, St. Cloud, Minnesota, Warren, Michigan, and Roanoke, Virginia and international call centers in Gurgaon, India and San Jose, Costa Rica. Call centers generally consist of multiple collection departments. Account managers supervised by group managers are trained and divided into specialty teams. Account managers assess our consumers&#8217; willingness and capacity to pay. They attempt to work with consumers to evaluate sources and means of repayment to achieve a full or negotiated lump sum settlement or develop payment programs customized to the individual&#8217;s ability to pay. In cases where a payment plan is developed, account managers encourage consumers to pay through automatic payment arrangements. During our new hire training period, we educate account managers to understand and apply applicable laws and policies that are relevant in the account manager&#8217;s daily collection activities. Our ongoing training and monitoring efforts help ensure compliance with applicable laws and policies by account managers. 

&#8226; 

Skip Tracing . If a consumer&#8217;s phone number proves inaccurate when an account manager calls an account, or if current contact information for a consumer is not available at the time of account purchase, then the account could be routed to our skip tracing process. We currently use a number of different skip tracing companies to provide accurate phone numbers and addresses. 

&#8226; 

Legal Action . We generally refer accounts for legal action where the consumer has not responded to our direct mail efforts or our calls and it appears the consumer is able, but unwilling, to pay his or her obligations. When we decide to pursue legal action, we place the account into our internal legal channel or refer them to our network of retained law firms. If placed to our internal legal channel, attorneys in that channel will evaluate the accounts and make the final determination whether to pursue legal action. If referred to our network of retained law firms, we rely on our law firms&#8217; expertise with respect to applicable debt collection laws to evaluate the accounts placed in that channel in order to make the decision about whether or not to pursue collection litigation. Prior to engaging an external collection firm, we evaluate the firm&#8217;s compliance with consumer credit laws and regulations, operations, financial condition, and experience, among other key criteria. The law firms we have hired may also attempt to communicate with the consumers in an attempt to collect their debts prior to initiating litigation. We pay these law firms a contingent fee based on amounts they collect on our behalf. 

&#8226; 

Third-Party Collection Agencies . We selectively employ a strategy that uses collection agencies. Collection agencies receive a contingent fee for each dollar collected. Generally, we use these agencies on accounts when we believe they can liquidate better or less expensively than we can or to supplement capacity in our internal call centers. We also use agencies to initially provide us a way to scale quickly when large purchases are made and as a challenge to our internal call center collection teams. Prior to engaging a collection agency, we evaluate, among other things, those aspects of the agency&#8217;s business that we believe are relevant to its performance and compliance with consumer credit laws and regulations. 

&#8226; 

Online . We offer an online payment portal that enhances consumer convenience by providing consumers the ability to make payments and submit inquiries online. 

&#8226; 

Sale . We do not resell accounts to third parties in the ordinary course of our business. 

International 

Cabot uses insights developed during its purchasing process to build account collection strategies. Cabot&#8217;s proprietary consumer-level collectability analysis is the primary determinant of how an account will be serviced post-purchase. Cabot continuously refines this analysis to determine the most effective collection strategy to pursue for each account it owns. In recent years, Cabot has concentrated on buying high-balance financial services debt, both paying and non-paying. Cabot will attempt to establish contact with these consumers in order to transfer payment arrangements and gauge the willingness of these consumers to pay. Consumers who Cabot believes are financially incapable of making any payments, those having negative disposable income, or those experiencing hardship (such as medical issues or mental incapacity), are handled outside of normal collections processes through dedicated and tailored strategies. 

The remaining pool of accounts then receives further evaluation through the combined use of Cabot&#8217;s and Marlin&#8217;s data analytics. At that point, Cabot analyzes and determines a consumer&#8217;s perceived willingness to pay. Based on that analysis, Cabot pursues collections through letters and/or phone calls to its consumers. Where contact is made and consumers indicate a willingness to pay, a patient approach of forbearance is applied using regulatory protocols within the United Kingdom to assess affordability and ensure that repayment plans are fair and balanced and therefore sustainable. Where the customer is unwilling to pay, Cabot refers the account to the appropriate escalation point in the collection process, which may include its internal debt 

collection agency, a third-party collection agency or legal action. Cabot also has robust internal legal collection capabilities, allowing the organization to address consumers across the entire willingness to pay spectrum. 

Tax Lien Business 

Propel acquires and services residential and commercial tax liens on real property. These liens take priority over most other liens, including mortgage liens. To the extent permitted by local law, Propel works directly with property owners to structure affordable payment plans designed to allow them to keep their properties while paying their property tax obligations over time. In such cases, Propel pays their tax lien obligations to the taxing authority, and the property owners pay Propel at lower interest rates and/or over a longer period of time than the taxing authorities would ordinarily permit. Propel also purchases tax liens directly from taxing authorities in certain states. In many cases, these tax liens continue to be serviced by the taxing authorities. When a taxing authority receives payment for the outstanding taxes, it pays Propel the outstanding balance of the related lien plus interest, which is either established by statute, negotiated at the time of the purchase, or determined by the bid Propel submitted to acquire the tax lien. 

On February 19, 2016, we entered into an agreement with certain funds to sell 100% of our membership interests in Propel. The estimated sales price indicated that Propel&#8217;s fair value was less than its carrying value at December 31, 2015 and, as a result, goodwill at this reporting unit was impaired. Based on the estimated sales price, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $49.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 17, &#8220;Subsequent Event&#8221; and Note 15, &#8220;Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements for further information on the sale of Propel and the goodwill impairment. 

Legal, Compliance and Enterprise Risk Management, Oversight 

United States 

Our legal and compliance oversight functions are divided between our legal, compliance and enterprise risk management departments. Our legal department manages regulatory oversight, litigation, corporate transactions, and compliance with our internal ethics policy, while our compliance department tests and monitors adherence to State and Federal regulations and enterprise risk management manages risk and internal audit. 

The legal department is responsible for interpreting and administering our Standards of Business Conduct (the &#8220;Standards&#8221;), which apply to all of our directors, officers, and employees and outlines our commitment to a culture of professionalism and ethical behavior. The Standards promote honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships, compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and full and fair disclosure in reports that we file with, or submit to, the SEC and in other public communications made by us. As described in the Standards, we have also established a toll-free Compliance Hotline to allow directors, officers, and employees to report any detected or suspected fraud, misappropriations, or other fiscal irregularities, any good faith concern about our accounting and/or auditing practices, or any other violations of the Standards. 

We continually monitor applicable changes to laws governing statutes of limitations and disclosures to consumers. We maintain policies, system controls, and processes designed to ensure that accounts past the applicable statute of limitations do not get placed into legal collections. Additionally, in written and verbal communications with consumers, we provide disclosures to the consumer that the account is past its applicable statute of limitations and, therefore, we will not pursue collections through legal means. 

The compliance department is responsible for promoting compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The compliance department facilitates oversight by our Board of Directors and management, assists in formulating policies and procedures, and engages in training, risk assessments, testing, monitoring and corrective action, complaint response, and compliance audits. 

The enterprise risk management department is responsible for the development and administration of internal policies, procedures, periodic risk assessments and controls which apply to all of our business units and for performing internal audits to evaluate the level of compliance to both regulations, such as Sarbanes-Oxley 404, and standards of internal control for internal operations. 

Beyond written policies, one of our core internal goals is the adherence to principled intent as it pertains to all consumer interactions. We believe that it is in our shareholders&#8217; and our employees&#8217; best interest to treat all consumers with the highest standards of integrity. Specifically, we have strict policies and a code of ethics, which guide all dealings with our consumers. To reinforce existing written policies, we have established a number of quality assurance procedures. Through our Quality Assurance program, our Fair Debt Collection Practices Act training for new account managers, our Fair Debt Collection Practices Act recertification program for continuing account managers, and our Consumer Support Services department, we take significant steps to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and seek to promote consumer satisfaction. Our Quality Assurance team aims to enhance the skills of account managers and to drive compliance initiatives through active call monitoring, account manager coaching and mentoring, and the tracking and distribution of company-wide best 

practices. Finally, our Consumer Support Services department works directly with consumers to seek to resolve incoming consumer inquiries and to respond to consumer disputes as they may arise. 

International 

Cabot has established a compliance framework, operational procedures, and governance structures to enable it to conduct business in accordance with applicable rules, regulations, and guidelines. Cabot&#8217;s employees undergo comprehensive training on legal and regulatory compliance, and Cabot engages in regular call monitoring checks, data checks, performance reviews, and other operational reviews to ensure compliance with company guidelines. The laws and regulations under which Cabot operates have at their core the fair treatment of consumers, which is embedded within Cabot&#8217;s processes and culture. 

Information Technology 

Technical Infrastructure. Our internal network has been configured to be redundant in all critical functions, at all sites. This redundancy has been implemented within the local area network switches and the data center network and includes fully redundant Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) networks. We have the capability to handle high transaction volume in our server network architecture with scalability to meet and exceed our future growth plans. Redundancy, coupled with seamless scalability and our high performance infrastructure, will allow for rapid business transformation and growth. 

Predictive Dialer Technology. Our call centers employ the use of upgraded predictive dialer technology. This technology allows additional call volume capacity and greater efficiency through shorter wait times and an increase in the number of live contacts. This technology helps maximize account manager productivity and further optimizes the yield on our portfolio purchases. Additionally, the use of predictive dialing technology helps us comply with applicable federal and state laws in the United States that restrict the time, place, and manner in which debt collectors can call consumers. Recognizing mobile phone dialing has a different set of legal restrictions, we utilize a distinctly different platform for non-consented mobile phones in order to comply with all laws while providing a framework for us to maximize contact with our consumers. 

Computer Hardware. We have made significant improvements in our data centers, and now have redundancy in support of continued growth. We use a robust computer platform to perform our daily operations, including the collection efforts of our global workforce. Our custom software applications are integrated within our database server environment allowing us to process transaction loads with speed and efficiency. The computer platform offers us reliability and expansion opportunities. Furthermore, this hardware incorporates state of the art data security protection. We back up our data utilizing a tapeless configuration, and copies are replicated to a secure secondary data center. We also mirror our production data to a remote location to give us full protection in the event of the loss of our primary data center. To ensure the integrity and reliability of our computer platform, we periodically engage outside auditors specializing in information technology and cybersecurity to examine both our operating systems and disaster recovery plans. 

Process Control. To provide assurance that our entire infrastructure continues to operate efficiently and securely, we have developed a strong process and control environment. These governance, risk management, and control protocols govern all areas of the enterprise: from physical security and cyber security, to change management, data protection, and segregation of duties. 

Cybersecurity. &#32;&#32;We divide our cybersecurity and information security functions into the four core tenants that we believe make up a solid information security practice: (1) security strategy and architecture; (2) operational security; (3) vulnerability and threat management; and (4) IT governance, risk and controls. We invest in cybersecurity and advanced technologies, including next generation threat prevention and threat intelligence solutions, to protect our organization and consumer and proprietary data throughout its life cycle. Lastly, we believe that our adoption and implementation of leading security frameworks for the financial services industry and the regulatory environments and geographies in which we operate demonstrates our commitment to cybersecurity and information security. 

Competition 

United States 

The consumer credit recovery industry is highly competitive. We compete with a wide range of collection and financial services companies. We also compete with traditional contingency collection agencies and in-house recovery departments. Competitive pressures affect the availability and pricing of receivable portfolios, as well as the availability and cost of qualified recovery personnel. In addition, some of our competitors may have signed forward flow contracts under which credit originators or portfolio resellers have agreed to transfer charged-off receivables to them in the future, which could restrict those credit originators or portfolio resellers from selling receivables to us. We believe some of our major competitors, which include companies that focus primarily on the purchase of charged-off receivable portfolios, have continued to diversify into third-party agency collections and into offering credit card and other financial services as part of their recovery strategy. 

When purchasing receivables, we compete primarily on the basis of the price paid for receivable portfolios, the ease of negotiating and closing the prospective portfolio purchases with us, our ability to obtain funding, and our reputation with respect to the quality of services that we provide. We believe that our ability to compete effectively in this market is also dependent upon, among other things, our relationships with credit originators and portfolio resellers of charged-off consumer receivables, and our ability to provide quality collection strategies in compliance with applicable laws. 

We believe that smaller competitors are facing difficulties in the portfolio purchasing market because of the higher cost to operate due to increased regulatory pressure and because sellers of charged-off consumer receivables are being more selective with buyers in the marketplace, resulting in consolidation within the portfolio purchasing and recovery industry. We believe this favors larger participants in this market, such as the Company, because the larger market participants are better able to adapt to these pressures. As smaller competitors limit their participation in or exit the market, it may provide additional opportunities for us to purchase receivables from competitors or to acquire competitors directly. 

The tax lien industry is highly competitive and fragmented. In Texas, Propel competes primarily on the basis of interest rate, the ease of negotiating and closing the tax liens with the municipality and the consumer, and the reputation with respect to the quality of services that Propel provides. Outside of Texas, liens are usually sold individually or in bulk to the most competitive bidders, although sometimes the local governments consider non-monetary factors when awarding bulk liens. 

International 

When purchasing receivables in the United Kingdom market, Cabot competes on the basis of the price paid for receivable portfolios, the ease of negotiating and closing the prospective portfolio purchases with Cabot, its ability to obtain funding, and its reputation with respect to the quality of services it provides. We believe that Cabot&#8217;s ability to compete effectively in this market is also dependent upon, among other things, Cabot&#8217;s relationships with credit originators and financial services companies, its ability to segment portfolios effectively, its high level of compliance governance controls, and its ability to provide quality collection strategies in compliance with applicable laws. 

Similar to certain trends we are observing in the United States, we believe that smaller competitors in the United Kingdom are facing difficulties in the portfolio purchasing market because of the higher cost to operate due to the increased regulatory environment and scrutiny applied by regulators, and also because sellers of charged-off consumer receivables are being more selective with buyers in the marketplace, resulting in consolidation within the portfolio purchasing and recovery industry and the exit of portfolio purchasing and recovery companies from the marketplace. As in the United States, we believe this favors larger participants in the market, such as Cabot, because the larger market participants are better able to adapt to these pressures. As smaller competitors limit their participation in or exit the market, it may provide additional opportunities for us to purchase receivables from competitors or to acquire competitors directly, as we did through Cabot&#8217;s acquisition of Marlin in February 2014 and dlc in June 2015. 

Government Regulation 

United States 

Our debt purchasing and collection activities are subject to federal, state, and municipal statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances that establish specific guidelines and procedures that debt purchasers and collectors must follow when collecting consumer accounts. It is our policy to comply with the provisions of all applicable laws in all of our recovery activities. Our failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on us to the extent that they limit our recovery activities or subject us to fines or penalties in connection with such activities. 

The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (&#8220;FDCPA&#8221;) and comparable state and local laws establish specific guidelines and procedures that debt collectors must follow when communicating with consumers, including the time, place and manner of the communications, and prohibit unfair, deceptive, or abusive debt collection practices. Until 2011, the Federal Trade Commission (&#8220;FTC&#8221;) administered, and had primary responsibility for the enforcement of, the FDCPA. In July 2011, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), Congress transferred the FTC&#8217;s role of administering the FDCPA to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), along with certain other federal statutes, and gave the CFPB authority to implement regulations under the FDCPA. The FTC and the CFPB share enforcement responsibilities under the FDCPA. 

In addition to the FDCPA, the federal laws that apply to our business (including the regulations that implement these laws) include the following: 

Dodd-Frank Act, including the Consumer Financial Protection Act (Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, &#8220;CFPA&#8221;) 

&#160; 

Servicemembers&#8217; Civil Relief Act 

Electronic Fund Transfer Act 

&#160; 

Telephone Consumer Protection Act 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act 

&#160; 

Truth In Lending Act 

Fair Credit Billing Act 

&#160; 

U.S. Bankruptcy Code 

Fair Credit Reporting Act (&#8220;FCRA&#8221;) 

&#160; 

Wire Act 

Federal Trade Commission Act (&#8220;FTCA&#8221;) 

&#160; 

Credit CARD Act 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 

&#160; 

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 

&#160; 

&#160; 

The Dodd-Frank Act was adopted to reform and strengthen regulation and supervision of the U.S. financial services industry. It contains comprehensive provisions governing the oversight of financial institutions, some of which apply to us. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has broad authority to implement and enforce &#8220;federal consumer financial law,&#8221; as well as authority to examine financial institutions, including credit issuers that may be sellers of receivables and debt buyers and collectors such as us, for compliance with federal consumer financial law. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices by issuing regulations or by using its enforcement authority without first issuing regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes state officials to enforce regulations issued by the CFPB and to enforce the CFPA general prohibition against unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts or practices. 

The CFPB&#8217;s authorities include the ability to issue regulations under all significant federal statutes that affect the collection industry, including the FDCPA, FCRA, and others. On November 12, 2013, the CFPB published in the Federal Register an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comments, data, and information from the public about debt collection practices to help it determine what rules and other CFPB actions, if any, would be useful under the FDCPA and the CFPA. The CFPB has indicated that it expects to move forward with the debt collection rulemaking in 2016, including the possible convening of a panel pursuant to the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act and issuing a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also gave the CFPB supervisory and examination authority over a variety of institutions that may engage in debt collection, including us. Accordingly, the CFPB is authorized to supervise and conduct examinations of our business practices. The prospect of supervision has increased the potential consequences of noncompliance with federal consumer financial law. 

The CFPB can conduct hearings, adjudication proceedings, and investigations, either unilaterally or jointly with other state and federal regulators, to determine if federal consumer financial law has been violated. The CFPB has authority to impose monetary penalties for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPA, FDCPA, and FCRA, among other consumer protection statutes), require remediation of practices, and pursue enforcement actions. The CFPB also has authority to obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief), costs, and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. In addition, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state Attorneys General and state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy violations of state law. The CFPB has been active in its supervision, examination and enforcement of financial services companies, including bringing enforcement actions, imposing fines and mandating large refunds to customers of several financial institutions for practices relating to debt collection practices. 

On September 9, 2015, we entered into a consent order (the &#8220;Consent Order&#8221;) with the CFPB in which we settled allegations arising from our practices between 2011 and 2015. The Consent Order includes obligations on us to, among other things: (1) follow certain specified operational requirements, substantially all of which are already part of our current operations; (2) submit to the CFPB for review a comprehensive plan designed to ensure that our debt collection practices comply with all applicable federal consumer financial laws and the terms of the Consent Order; (3) pay redress to certain specified groups of consumers; and (4) pay a civil monetary penalty. We will continue to cooperate and engage with the CFPB and work to ensure compliance with the Consent Order. In addition, we are subject to ancillary state attorney general investigations related to similar debt collection practices. 

We incurred a one-time, after-tax charge of approximately $43 million in the third quarter of 2015. We believe this charge will cover all related impacts of the Consent Order, including civil monetary penalties, restitution, any such ancillary state regulatory matters, legal expenses and portfolio allowance charges on several pool groups due to the impact on our current 

estimated remaining collections related to our existing receivable portfolios. We anticipate that after this one-time charge, any future earnings impact will be immaterial. 

In addition, the CFPB has issued guidance in the form of bulletins on debt collection and credit furnishing activities generally, including one that specifically addresses representations regarding credit reports and credit scores during the debt collection process, another that focuses on the application of the CFPA&#8217;s prohibition of &#8220;unfair, deceptive, or abusive&#8221; acts or practices on debt collection and another that discusses the risks that in-person collection of consumer debt may create in violating the FDPCA and CFPA. The CFPB also accepts debt collection consumer complaints and released template letters for consumers to use when corresponding with debt collectors. The CFPB makes publicly available its data on consumer complaints. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the submission of multiple studies and reports to Congress by the CFPB, and CFPB staff regularly make speeches on topics related to credit and debt. All of these activities could trigger additional legislative or regulatory action. In addition, the CFPB has recently engaged in enforcement activity in sectors adjacent to our industry, impacting credit originators, collection firms, and payment processors, among others. The CFPB&#8217;s enforcement activity in these spaces, especially in the absence of clear rules or regulatory expectations, can be disruptive to third parties as they attempt to define appropriate business practices. As a result, certain commercial relationships we maintain may be disrupted or impacted by changes in third-parties&#8217; business practices or perceptions of elevated risk relating to the debt collection industry. 

Our activities are also subject to federal and state laws concerning identity theft, privacy, data security, the use of automated dialing equipment, and other laws related to consumers and consumer protection. In response to petitions filed by third parties, in July 2015, the Federal Communications Commission (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) released a declaratory ruling interpreting the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;TCPA&#8221;), which could impact the way consumers may be contacted on their cellular phones and could impact our operations and financial results. 

In addition to the federal statutes detailed above, many states have general consumer protection statutes, laws, regulations, or court rules that apply to debt purchasing and collection. In a number of states and cities, we must maintain licenses to perform debt recovery services and must satisfy related bonding requirements. It is our policy to comply with all material licensing and bonding requirements. Our failure to comply with existing licensing requirements, changing interpretations of existing requirements, or adoption of new licensing requirements, could restrict our ability to collect in regions, subject us to increased regulation, increase our costs, or adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables. 

State laws, among other things, also may limit the interest rate and the fees that a credit originator may impose on our consumers, limit the time in which we may file legal actions to enforce consumer accounts, and require specific account information for certain collection activities. By way of example, the California Fair Debt Buying Practices Act that directly applies to debt buyers, applies to accounts sold after January 1, 2014. The law requires debt buyers operating in the state to have in their possession specific account information before debt collection efforts can begin, among other requirements. Moreover, the New York State Department of Financial Services issued new debt collection regulations, which took effect in September 2015 and established new requirements for collecting debt in the state. In addition, other state and local requirements and court rulings in various jurisdictions may also affect our ability to collect. 

The relationship between consumers and credit card issuers is also extensively regulated by federal and state consumer protection and related laws and regulations. These laws may affect some of our operations because the majority of our receivables originate through credit card transactions. The laws and regulations applicable to credit card issuers, among other things, impose disclosure requirements when a credit card account is advertised, when it is applied for and when it is opened, at the end of monthly billing cycles, and at year-end. Federal law requires, among other things, that credit card issuers disclose to consumers the interest rates, fees, grace periods, and balance calculation methods associated with their credit card accounts. Some laws prohibit discriminatory practices in connection with the extension of credit. If the originating institution fails to comply with applicable statutes, rules, and regulations, it could create claims and rights for consumers that would reduce or eliminate their obligations related to those receivables. When we acquire receivables, we generally require the credit originator or portfolio reseller to represent that they have complied with applicable statutes, rules, and regulations relating to the origination and collection of the receivables before they were sold to us. 

Federal statutes further provide that, in some cases, consumers cannot be held liable for, or their liability is limited with respect to, charges to their credit card accounts that resulted from unauthorized use of their credit cards. These laws, among others, may give consumers a legal cause of action against us, or may limit our ability to recover amounts owing with respect to the receivables, whether or not we committed any wrongful act or omission in connection with the account. 

These laws and regulations, and others similar to the ones listed above, as well as laws applicable to specific types of debt, impose requirements or restrictions on collection methods or our ability to enforce and recover certain of our receivables. Effects of the law, including those described above, and any new or changed laws, rules, or regulations, and reinterpretation of the same, may adversely affect our ability to recover amounts owing with respect to our receivables or the sale of receivables by creditors and resellers. 

In June 2013, we completed our merger with Asset Acceptance Capital Corp. (&#8220;AACC&#8221;), another leading provider of debt recovery solutions in the United States. In January 2012, Asset Acceptance, LLC, a subsidiary of AACC, entered into a consent decree with the FTC. The consent decree ended an FTC investigation into Asset Acceptance, LLC&#8217;s compliance with the FTCA, FDCPA, and FCRA. As part of the consent decree, Asset Acceptance, LLC agreed to undertake certain consumer protection practices, including, among other things, furnishing additional disclosures to consumers when collecting debt past the statute of limitations, and paid a civil penalty of $2,500,000. These practices continue to apply to the portfolios we purchased as a result of the merger with AACC. We do not expect compliance with the consent decree to have a material effect on our business. 

In order to conduct the tax lien business in the State of Texas, Propel is subject to regulation and licensing by the State of Texas Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner. Propel is also subject to applicable laws governing the acquisition and servicing of tax liens and tax lien certificates, including but not limited to various consumer protection, privacy laws and regulations. There have been assertions that various provisions of the Truth in Lending Act and its implementing regulations apply to Propel&#8217;s business operations in certain states, depending on the method by which the Tax Liens are acquired. Propel believes these assertions are without merit. 

International 

As we expand our international footprint, our operations are increasingly affected by foreign statutes, rules and regulations. It is our policy to comply with these laws in all of our recovery activities. For example, debt collection and debt purchase activities in the United Kingdom are highly regulated by a number of different governmental bodies. 

The regulatory regime to which Cabot is subject is currently experiencing a number of substantial changes. The most significant changes include the transfer of responsibility for the regulation of consumer credit businesses in the United Kingdom from the Office of Fair Trading (&#8220;OFT&#8221;) to the Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;) which occurred on April 1, 2014; the proposal to have a dedicated pre-action protocol before commencing debt recovery claims in court; and the proposal by the European Commission that substantial changes be made to the European Union data protection regime. 

The FCA implemented an interim permission regime whereby businesses that held a consumer credit license were required to register with the FCA for interim permission before March 31, 2014 in order to continue consumer credit activities after April 1, 2014. The interim permission regime is expected to continue until April 1, 2017, and during this time businesses will be called upon at different intervals to apply for authorization to be fully regulated by the FCA. Cabot currently has all regulatory licenses, permissions, registrations, and authorizations in place with the relevant regulatory bodies in order to provide and continue debt purchase and collection activities, including holding interim permission with the FCA. In March 2015, Cabot applied for full authorization of its business with the FCA. The FCA typically has 12 months to consider an application for full authorization. Therefore, Cabot expects the final decision by the FCA regarding its application in March 2016. The FCA may take any one of the following actions with Cabot&#8217;s application: (1) the FCA may authorize Cabot to continue debt purchasing, collecting and associated credit activities without further conditions; (2) the FCA may authorize Cabot subject to certain conditions, which will require Cabot to take certain actions to either remediate or comply with the FCA&#8217;s conditions; (3) the FCA may require that certain improvements to Cabot&#8217;s processes be made as a precursor to authorization, or appoint a skilled person elected by the FCA to investigate, examine and oversee Cabot&#8217;s operations, at Cabot&#8217;s cost; or (4) the FCA may decline to authorize Cabot. In addition to the application for full authorization of its business with the FCA, Cabot will be required to apply to the FCA to appoint certain individuals who have significant control or influence over the management of the business, known as &#8220;Approved Persons,&#8221; and who will jointly and severally be liable for the acts and omissions of the company and its business affairs. Approved Persons will be subject to statements of principle and codes of practice established and enforced by the FCA. The FCA may take the following action in connection with the application for Approved Persons: (a) authorize the Approved Person without further conditions; (b) refuse to authorize the Approved Person; (c) request that the applicant undertake further qualifications before it authorizes a person to become an Approved Person; or (d) ban a person from acting as an Approved Person for a period of time or for life. 

The FCA has adopted detailed rules relating to conducting consumer credit activities, in addition to putting in place high level principles and conditions to which it expects businesses and Approved Persons in the sector to adhere. The FCA has significantly greater powers than the OFT, including, but not limited to, the ability to impose significant fines, ban certain individuals from carrying on trade within the financial services industry, impose requirements on a firm&#8217;s permission, and cease certain products from being collected upon. 

Furthermore, the manner in which court claims are conducted in England and Wales in connection with the recovery of debt may be subject to significant changes. In September 2014, the Civil Procedure Rules Committee (&#8220;CPRC&#8221;), an advisory public body set up by statute and sponsored by the U.K. Ministry of Justice, issued a consultation on proposals to introduce a designated pre-action protocol for court claims for the recovery of debt. Due to the amount of responses from the industry against the introduction of a dedicated protocol, the CPRC created a dedicated sub-committee with industry and consumer group stakeholders. As a consequence, the CPRC issued an updated consultation in September 2015 in order to seek balance between the interests of the industry and consumer groups. If adopted in its current form, it would require all debt collection 

entities and law firms instructed and acting on behalf of such entities to disclose significant amounts of information relating to the credit agreement and the state of such credit agreement to a consumer prior to being able to progress a claim to court. In some circumstances, issuers of debt may not be able to provide this information, and as neither Cabot nor its competitors currently maintain such documentation to satisfy such obligations, the protocol may limit Cabot&#8217;s ability to commence Court proceedings to recover a debt. Certain other requirements are proposed, which may significantly increase costs and time in order to initiate a court claim. Cabot, together with other key industry representatives and trade bodies who are all affected by the proposals, have issued an updated response to the consultation, which is still under consideration. If the CPRC decides to release an updated protocol, it is anticipated that it will be released during 2016 or 2017. 

In addition, the regulatory regime in the United Kingdom relating to the protection of consumers from unfair terms and practices is subject to change. In October 2015, the U.K. Parliament introduced new laws that reformed most of the previous U.K. consumer laws and was largely driven by the European Commission&#8217;s Directive for Consumer Rights. The U.K. Consumer Rights Act 2015 introduced enhanced consumer measures that can be imposed on businesses and gives greater protection to U.K. consumers from unfair business practices and unfair terms in consumer agreements. 

Additionally, the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 (and its related regulations) and the U.K. Consumer Rights Act 2015 set forth requirements for the entry into and ongoing management of consumer credit arrangements in the United Kingdom. A failure to comply with these requirements can make agreements unenforceable or can result in a requirement that charged and collected interest be repaid. 

In addition to these regulations on debt collection and debt purchase activities, Cabot must comply with requirements established by the Data Protection Act of 1998 in relation to processing the personal data of its consumers. 

The regulatory regime in the Republic of Ireland has been subject to significant changes. In July 2015, the Irish Parliament introduced the Consumer Protection (Regulation of Credit Servicing Firms) Act 2015, which requires credit servicing firms to be regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland to ensure regulatory protection for consumers following loan book sales was published in January 2015. The Consumer Protection (Regulation of Credit Servicing Firms) Act 2015 seeks to address concerns regarding the loss of regulatory protections for borrowers when portfolio of loans are sold and/or serviced to/by an unregulated entity. Cabot is registered with and regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland for credit servicing activities and its activities are subject to detailed rules on consumer protection. Cabot is undergoing the second stage of the authorization process in which it needs to provide its controls framework on how it ensures regulatory protection for consumers for debt portfolios it has acquired and manages. Cabot is already contractually obligated to ensure compliance with the relevant consumer protection codes through its debt sale and management agreements and is audited on a regular basis against such obligations. 

In addition, the other markets in which we currently operate are subject to local laws and regulations, and we have implemented compliance programs to facilitate compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in those markets. Our operations outside the United States are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in order to obtain an unfair advantage, to help, obtain, or retain business. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 6,700 employees worldwide. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

