 Item 1. Business 

References in this report to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; the &#8220;Company&#8221; &#32;and &#8220;Euronet&#8221; refer to Euronet Worldwide, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise. 

Business Overview 

General Overview 

Euronet is a leading electronic payments provider. We offer payment and transaction processing and distribution solutions to financial institutions, retailers, service providers and individual consumers. Our primary product offerings include comprehensive automated teller machine (&#8220;ATM&#8221;), point-of-sale (&#8220;POS&#8221;), card outsourcing, card issuing and merchant acquiring services; software solutions; electronic distribution of prepaid mobile airtime and other electronic payment products; foreign exchange services and global money transfer services. 

Core Business Segments 

We operate in the following three segments as of December 31, 2015 : 

The EFT Processing Segment processes transactions for a network of 21,360 &#32;ATMs and approximately 113,000 &#32;POS terminals across Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific. We provide comprehensive electronic payment solutions consisting of ATM cash withdrawal and deposit services, ATM network participation, outsourced ATM and POS management solutions, credit and debit card outsourcing, and card issuing and merchant acquiring services. In addition to our core business, we offer a variety of value added services, including ATM and POS dynamic currency conversion, advertising, customer relationship management (&#8220;CRM&#8221;), mobile top-up, bill payment, fraud management and foreign remittance payout. Through this segment, we also offer a suite of integrated electronic financial transaction (&#8220;EFT&#8221;) software solutions for electronic payment and transaction delivery systems. In 2015 , the EFT Processing Segment accounted for approximately 21% &#32;of Euronet's consolidated revenues. 

The epay Segment provides electronic distribution and processing of prepaid mobile airtime and other electronic payment products and collection services for various payment products, cards and services. We operate a network that includes approximately 674,000 &#32;POS terminals that enable electronic processing of prepaid mobile airtime &#8220;top-up&#8221; services and other non-mobile content in Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, the United States and South America. We also provide vouchers and physical gift fulfillment services in Europe, gift card distribution and processing services in most of our markets and digital code distribution in a growing number of markets. Through this segment, we believe we are the world's leading international network for distribution of prepaid mobile airtime. In 2015 , the epay Segment accounted for approximately 40% &#32;of Euronet's consolidated revenues. 

The Money Transfer Segment provides global consumer-to-consumer money transfer services, primarily under the brand names Ria, AFEX Money Express, IME and XE, and global account-to-account money transfer services under the brand name HiFX. We offer services under the brand name Ria and IME through a network of sending agents, Company-owned stores (primarily in North America, Europe and Malaysia) and our websites (riamoneytransfer.com and imeremit.com), disbursing money transfers through a worldwide correspondent network that includes approximately 292,000 &#32;locations. XE is a provider of foreign currency exchange information and offers money transfer services on its currency data websites (xe.com and x-rates.com), which are executed by a third party. We offer services under the brand name HiFX through our HiFX websites (www.hifx.co.uk and www.hifx.com.au) and HiFX customer service representatives. In addition to money transfers, we also offer customers bill payment services (primarily in the U.S.), payment alternatives such as money orders and prepaid debit cards, comprehensive check cashing services for a wide variety of issued checks, along with competitive foreign currency exchange services and mobile top-up. Through our HiFM brand, we offer cash management solutions and foreign currency risk management services to small-to-medium sized businesses. We are one of the largest global money transfer companies in terms of revenues and transaction volumes. In 2015 , the Money Transfer Segment accounted for approximately 39% &#32;of Euronet's consolidated revenues. 

Euronet conducts business globally, serving customers in approximately 165 countries. We have thirteen transaction processing centers, including six in Europe, five in Asia Pacific and two in North America. We also maintain 56 business offices that are located in 39 countries. Our corporate offices are located in Leawood, Kansas, USA. 

Historical Perspective 

Euronet was established in 1994 as Euronet Bank Access Kft., a Hungarian limited liability company. Operations began in 1995 when we established a processing center in Budapest, Hungary and installed our first ATMs in Hungary, followed by Poland and Germany in 1996. Euronet was reorganized in March 1997, in connection with its initial public offering, and at that time, our operating entities became wholly owned subsidiaries of Euronet Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation. We changed our name from Euronet Services, Inc. to Euronet Worldwide, Inc. in August 2001. 

Initially, most of Euronet's resources were devoted to establishing and expanding the ATM network and ATM management services business in Europe. In December 1998, we acquired Arkansas Systems, Inc. (now known as "Euronet USA"), a U.S.-based company that produces electronic payment and transaction delivery systems software for retail banks internationally, which resulted in significant ongoing savings in third-party licensing, services and maintenance costs. By the end of 1998, we were doing business in Hungary, Poland, Germany, the Czech Republic and Croatia. 

In 2005, we expanded the product offerings of the EFT Processing Segment through the acquisition of Instreamline S.A., a Greek company that provides credit card and POS outsourcing services in addition to debit card and transaction gateway switching services in Greece and the Balkan region. In 2007, we combined our EFT and Software segments as both businesses are strategically aligned due to the fact that our software segment primarily supports our EFT service offerings and processing centers. In 2009 Euronet, through one of its group companies, was granted authorization as an e-money institution in the United Kingdom under the E-Money Directive. Euronet obtained relevant memberships of Visa and MasterCard during 2011. In 2011, the Second E-Money Directive ("2EMD") came into effect. 2EMD enables authorized e-money institutions to provide payment services and issue e-money throughout the European Economic Area under a single regulatory framework. By obtaining the status as an authorized e-money institution together with its principal memberships of Visa and MasterCard, Euronet has been able to expand its Independent ATM Deployed ("IAD") networks across Europe. By the end of 2015, Euronet's IAD network of ATMs had expanded to include 19 countries. Our product portfolio for the EFT Processing Segment operates in 49 countries. 

In 2003, Euronet added a complementary business line through the acquisition of epay Limited (&#8220;epay&#8221;), which had offices in the U.K. and Australia. Through subsequent acquisitions between 2003 and 2011, the epay Segment continued to expand in Europe (Germany, Romania, Spain and the U.K.), the U.S., the Middle East, Asia and Brazil, and established new offices in New Zealand, Poland, India and Italy. We believe the epay Segment is the world's leading international network for distribution and processing of prepaid mobile airtime ("top-up") as well as other electronic payment products and services. 

In 2007, we established the Money Transfer Segment after completing the acquisition of Los Angeles-based Ria, one of the largest global money transfer companies in terms of revenues and transaction volumes. Established in 1987, Ria originates and terminates transactions through a network of sending agents and Company-owned stores located around the world. In November 2009, Ria obtained a payment services license under the Payment Services Directive ("PSD") from the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which allowed Ria to operate under one license and one regulator for all European Economic Area Member States. The license also facilitated expansion into new markets through the sales of money transfers through agents in countries where the use of agents was not previously permitted. In 2014, Euronet added a complementary product to the money transfer portfolio through the acquisition of HiFX, which offers account-to-account international payment services to high-income individuals and small-to-medium sized businesses. In addition to expanding its money transfer network, the segment expanded its product portfolio to offer complementary non-money transfer products such as bill payment and check cashing, and prepaid services in conjunction with the epay Segment. 

2015 Developments 

In June 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of IME (M) Sdn Bhd and certain affiliated companies ("IME"). IME is a leading Malaysian-based money transfer provider and provided the Money Transfer Segment with immediate entry into the Asian and Middle East send markets. 

In July 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of XE Corporation and its subsidiaries ("XE"). XE Corporation is a Canadian company which operates the xe.com and x-rates.com websites, providing currency-related data and international payments services. This acquisition provided Euronet an internationally recognized financial services brand with a large Internet presence in which we will offer our foreign currency products. 

Business Segment Overview 

For a discussion of operating results by segment, please see Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 16, Business Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

EFT Processing Segment 

Overview 

Our EFT Processing Segment provides comprehensive electronic payment solutions consisting of ATM cash withdrawal and deposit services, ATM network participation, outsourced ATM and POS management solutions, credit and debit card outsourcing; card issuing and merchant acquiring services. In addition to our core business, we offer a variety of value added services, including ATM and POS dynamic currency conversion, advertising, CRM, prepaid mobile top-up, bill payment, fraud management and foreign remittance payout. We provide these services either through our Euronet-owned ATMs and POS terminals, through contracts under which we operate ATMs and POS terminals on behalf of our customers or, for certain services, as stand alone products. Through this segment, we also offer a suite of integrated EFT software solutions for electronic payment and transaction delivery systems. 

The major sources of revenues generated by our ATM network are recurring monthly management fees, transaction-based fees and margins earned on dynamic currency conversion transactions. We receive fixed monthly fees under many of our outsourced management contracts. The EFT Processing Segment also generates revenues from POS operations and merchant management, card network management for credit, debit, prepaid and loyalty cards, prepaid mobile airtime recharge on ATMs and ATM advertising. We primarily service financial institutions in the developing markets of Central, Eastern and Southern Europe (Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Romania, Slovakia, Serbia, Greece and Ukraine), the Middle East and Asia Pacific (India, China and Pakistan), as well as several developed countries of Western Europe. As of December 31, 2015 , we operated 21,360 &#32;ATMs compared to 20,364 &#32;at December 31, 2014. The increase was largely due to growth in India and expansion of our IAD networks in several European countries, partially offset by the termination of approximately 1,300 loss-generating ATMs in China. 

We monitor the number of transactions made by cardholders on our network. These include cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, deposits, prepaid mobile airtime recharge purchases, dynamic currency conversion transactions and certain denied (unauthorized) transactions. We do not bill certain transactions on our network to financial institutions, and we have excluded these transactions for reporting purposes. The number of transactions processed over our networks has increased over the last five years at a compound annual growth rate (&#8220;CAGR&#8221;) of approximately 9% as indicated in the following table: 

(in millions) 

2012 

2014 

EFT Processing transactions per year 

1,164 

1,188 

1,262 

1,318 

Our processing centers for the EFT Processing Segment are located in Budapest, Hungary; Mumbai, India; Beijing, China; and Karachi, Pakistan. They operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week and consist of production IBM iSeries computers, which run various proprietary software packages. 

EFT Processing Products and Services 

Outsourced Management Solutions 

Euronet offers outsourced management services to financial institutions, merchants, mobile phone operators and other organizations using our processing centers' electronic financial transaction processing software. Our outsourced management services include management of existing ATM networks, development of new ATM networks, management of POS networks, management of automated deposit terminals, management of credit and debit card databases and other financial processing services. These services include 24-hour monitoring of each ATM's status and cash condition, managing the cash levels in each 

ATM, coordinating the cash delivery and providing automatic dispatches for necessary service calls. We also provide real-time transaction authorization, advanced monitoring, network gateway access, network switching, 24-hour customer service, maintenance, cash settlement and reconciliation, forecasting and reporting. Since our infrastructure can support a significant increase in transactions, any new outsourced management services agreements should provide additional revenue with lower incremental cost. 

Our outsourced management services agreements generally provide for fixed monthly management fees and, in most cases, fees payable for each transaction. The transaction fees under these agreements are generally lower than those under card acceptance agreements. 

Euronet-Branded ATM Transaction Processing 

Our Euronet-branded ATM networks, also known as IAD networks, are primarily managed by a processing center that uses our internally developed software solutions. The ATMs in our IAD networks are able to process transactions for holders of credit and debit cards issued by or bearing the logos of financial institutions and international card organizations such as American Express &#174; , Visa &#174; , MasterCard &#174; , Diners Club International &#174; , Discover &#174; &#32;and China Union Pay, as well as international ATM networks such as PULSE &#174; . This is accomplished through our agreements and relationships with these institutions, international credit and debit card issuers and international card associations. 

When a bank cardholder conducts a transaction on a Euronet-owned ATM or automated deposit terminal ("ADT"), we receive a fee from the cardholder's bank for that transaction. The bank pays us this fee either directly or indirectly through a central switching and settlement network. When paid indirectly, this fee is referred to as the &#8220;interchange fee.&#8221; All of the banks in a shared ATM and POS switching system establish the amount of the interchange fee by agreement. We receive transaction-processing fees for successful transactions and, in certain circumstances, for transactions that are not completed because they fail to receive authorization. The fees paid to us by the card issuers are independent of any fees charged by the card issuers to cardholders in connection with the ATM transactions. 

We generally receive fees or earn margin from our customers for six types of ATM transactions: 

&#8226; 

Cash withdrawals; 

&#8226; 

Cash deposits; 

&#8226; 

Balance inquiries; 

&#8226; 

Transactions not completed because the relevant card issuer does not give authorization; 

&#8226; 

Dynamic currency conversion; and 

&#8226; 

Prepaid telecommunication recharges. 

Card Acceptance or Sponsorship Agreements 

Our agreements with financial institutions and international card organizations generally provide that all credit and debit cards issued by the customer financial institution or organization may be used at all ATMs that we operate in a given market. In most markets, we have agreements with a financial institution under which we are designated as a service provider (which we refer to as &#8220;sponsorship agreements&#8221;) for the acceptance of cards bearing international logos, such as Visa and MasterCard. These card acceptance or sponsorship agreements allow us to receive transaction authorization directly from the card issuing institution or international card organization. Our agreements generally provide for a term of three to seven years and renew automatically unless either party provides notice of non-renewal prior to the termination date. In some cases, the agreements are terminable by either party upon six months' notice. We are generally able to connect a financial institution to our network within 30 to 90 days of signing a card acceptance agreement. Generally, the financial institution provides the cash needed to complete transactions on the ATM, but we do provide a portion of the cash to our IAD network to fund ATM transactions ourselves. Euronet is generally liable for the cash in the ATM networks. 

Under our card acceptance agreements, the ATM transaction fees we charge vary depending on the type of transaction and the number of transactions attributable to a particular card issuer. Our agreements generally provide for payment in local currency. Transaction fees are sometimes denominated in euros or U.S. dollars. Transaction fees are billed to financial institutions and card organizations with payment terms typically no longer than one month. 

Dynamic Currency Conversion 

We offer dynamic currency conversion (&#8220;DCC&#8221;) over our IAD networks, ATM networks that we operate on an outsourced basis for banks, and over banks' ATM networks or POS devices as a stand-alone service. DCC is a feature of the underlying ATM or POS transaction that is offered to customers completing transactions using a foreign debit or credit card in another country. The customer is offered a choice between two alternatives for the foreign exchange conversion of the funds delivered at an ATM or transactions completed through the POS terminal by the transaction acquirer, the first being the DCC offering which results in a pre-defined amount of the customer's local currency being charged to their card. Alternatively, the customer may have the transaction converted in the ordinary way, in which the amount of foreign currency is communicated to the card issuing bank and the card issuing bank makes the conversion. In this latter case, the customer generally is not informed of the exchange rate used by the card issuing bank until settlement of the transaction. 

When a customer chooses DCC at an ATM or POS device and Euronet acts as the acquirer or processor, we receive all or a portion of the foreign exchange margin on the conversion of the transaction. On our IAD ATMs, Euronet receives the entire exchange margin. On ATMs or POS devices that are operated for banks, or where we offer DCC as a stand-alone service to banks or merchants, we share the foreign exchange margin. The foreign exchange margin on a DCC transaction can substantially increase the amount Euronet earns from the underlying ATM or POS transaction and increase the profitability of those ATMs on which DCC is offered. 

Other Products and Services 

Our network of owned or operated ATMs allows for the sale of financial and other products or services at a low incremental cost. We have developed value added services in addition to basic cash withdrawal and balance inquiry transactions. These value added services include DCC, mobile top-up, fraud management, bill payment, CRM, foreign remittance payout, and advertising. We are committed to the ongoing development of innovative new products and services to offer our EFT processing customers. 

Euronet offers multinational merchants a Single European Payments Area (&#8220;SEPA&#8221;)-compliant cross-border transaction processing solution. SEPA is an area in which all electronic payments can be made and received in euros, whether between or within national boundaries, under the same basic conditions, rights and obligations, regardless of their location. This single, centralized acquiring platform enables merchants to benefit from cost savings and faster, more efficient payments transfer. Although many European countries are not members of the eurozone, the platform can serve the merchants in these countries as well, through its multi-currency functionality. 

Software Solutions 

We also offer a suite of integrated software solutions for electronic payments and transaction delivery systems. We generate revenues for our software products from licensing, professional services and maintenance fees for software and sales of related hardware, primarily to financial institutions around the world. 

Additionally, our software products are an integral part of the EFT Processing Segment product lines, and our investment in research, development, delivery and customer support reflects our ongoing commitment to an expanded customer base both internally and externally. Our proprietary software is used by processing centers in our EFT Processing Segment, resulting in cost savings and added value compared to third-party license and maintenance options. 

EFT Processing Segment Strategy 

The EFT Processing Segment maintains a strategy to expand the network of ATMs and POS terminals into developed and developing markets that have the greatest potential for growth. In addition, we follow a supporting strategy to increase the penetration of value added (or complementary) services across our existing customer base, including DCC, advertising, fraud management, bill payment, mobile top-up, CRM and foreign remittance payout. 

We continually strive to make our own ATM networks more efficient by eliminating underperforming ATMs and installing ATMs in more desirable locations. We will make selective additions to our own ATM network if we see market demand and profit opportunities. In tourist locations, we also shut down ATMs during the winter season when tourist activity is low. 

In recent years, the need for &#8220;all-in&#8221; services has increased. Banks, particularly smaller banks, are increasingly looking for integrated ATM, POS and card issuing processing and management services. Euronet is well positioned for this opportunity as it can offer a full end-to-end solution to the potential partners. 

Additional growth opportunities are driven through financial institutions that are receptive to outsourcing the operation of their ATM, POS and card networks. The operation of these devices requires expensive hardware and software and specialized personnel. These resources are available to us, and we offer them to our customers under outsourcing contracts. The expansion and enhancement of our outsourced management solutions in new and existing markets will remain an important business opportunity for Euronet. Increasing the number of non-owned ATMs and POS terminals that we operate under management services agreements and continued development of our credit and debit card outsourcing business would provide continued growth while minimizing our capital investment. 

Complementary services offered by our epay Segment, where we provide prepaid top-up services through POS terminals, strengthens the EFT Processing Segment's line of services. We plan to continue to expand our technology and business methods into other markets where we operate and further leverage our relationships with mobile phone operators and financial institutions to facilitate that expansion. 

Seasonality 

Our EFT Processing business experiences its heaviest demand for DCC during the third quarter of the fiscal year, coinciding with the tourism season. It is also impacted by seasonality during the fourth quarter and first quarter of each year due to higher transaction levels during the holiday season and lower levels after the holiday season. 

Significant Customers and Government Contracts 

No individual customer of the EFT Processing Segment makes up greater than 10% of total consolidated revenues. In India, we have contracts with government-owned banks to provide certain ATM services, including mobile airtime recharge services. Additionally, certain government-owned banks are members of our shared ATM network in India. In Croatia, we lease land and other property for certain ATM sites from companies that are majority-owned by the government. In Pakistan, we have a contract with a government-owned bank to provide software support services. 

Competition 

Our principal EFT Processing competitors include ATM networks owned by financial institutions and national switches consisting of consortiums of local banks that provide outsourcing and transaction services to financial institutions and independent ATM deployers in a particular country. Additionally, large, well-financed companies that operate ATMs offer ATM network and outsourcing services, and those that provide card outsourcing, POS processing and merchant acquiring services also compete with us in various markets. Small local operators have also recently begun offering their services, particularly in the IAD market. None of these competitors has a dominant market share in any of our markets. Competitive factors in our EFT Processing Segment include breadth of service offering, network availability and response time, price to both the financial institution and to its customers, ATM location and access to other networks. 

epay Segment 

Overview 

We currently offer prepaid mobile airtime top-up services and other prepaid and payment products on a network of approximately 674,000 &#32;POS terminals across approximately 307,000 &#32;retailer locations in Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, the United States and South America. We believe we are the world's leading international network for distribution of prepaid mobile airtime (top-up). Our processing centers for the epay Segment are located in London, U.K.; Martinsried, Germany; Hamburg, Germany; Milan, Italy; Buena Park, California, USA; and Kansas City, Missouri, USA. 

Since 2003, we have expanded our prepaid business in new and existing markets by drawing upon our depth of experience to build and expand relationships with mobile phone operators, prepaid content providers and retailers. In addition to prepaid mobile airtime, we offer a wide range of products across our retail networks, including prepaid debit cards, gift cards, prepaid vouchers, transport payments, lottery payments, prepaid digital content such as music, games and software, prepaid long distance and bill payment. 

Sources of Revenues 

The epay Segment generates commissions or processing fees from telecommunications service providers for the sale and distribution of prepaid mobile airtime and from the distribution of electronic payment products referenced in the preceding paragraph. 

Customers using mobile phones generally pay for their usage in two ways: 

&#8226; 

Through &#8220;postpaid&#8221; accounts, where usage is billed at the end of each billing period; and 

&#8226; 

Through &#8220;prepaid&#8221; accounts, where customers pay in advance by crediting their accounts prior to usage. 

Although mobile phone operators in the U.S. and certain European countries have provided service principally through postpaid accounts, the norm in many other countries in Europe and the rest of the world is to offer wireless service on a prepaid basis. 

Prepaid mobile phone credits are generally distributed using personal identification numbers or "PINs." We distribute PINs in two ways. First, we establish an electronic connection to the mobile operator and the retailer. When the sale to a customer is initiated, the terminal requests the PIN from the mobile operator via our transaction processing platform. These transactions obtain the PIN directly from the mobile operator and, therefore, Euronet does not carry PIN inventory. The customer pays the retailer and the retailer becomes obligated to make settlement to us of the principal amount of the mobile airtime sold. We maintain systems that know the amount of mobile top-up sold by the retailer which allows us in turn to bill that retailer for the mobile top-up sold. 

Second, we purchase PINs from the mobile operator which are electronically sent to our processing platform. We establish an electronic connection with the POS terminals in retailer locations and our processing platform provides the terminal with a PIN when the mobile top-up is purchased. We maintain systems that monitor transaction levels at each terminal. As sales of prepaid mobile airtime to customers are completed, the inventory on the platform is reduced by the PIN purchased. The customer payment and settlement with the retailer are the same as described above. 

We expand our distribution networks through the signing of new contracts with retailers, and in some markets, through the acquisition of existing networks. We are continuing to focus on our growing network of distributors, generally referred to as Independent Sales Organizations that contract with retailers in their network to distribute prepaid mobile airtime or other content from their POS terminals. We continue to increase our focus on direct relationships with chains of supermarkets, convenience stores, petrol stations, and other larger scale retailers, where we can negotiate agreements with the retailer on a multi-year basis. 

epay Products and Services &#32; 

Prepaid Mobile Airtime Transaction Processing 

We process prepaid mobile airtime top-up transactions on our POS network across Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, North America and South America for two types of clients: distributors and retailers. Both types of client transactions start with a consumer in a retail store. The retailer uses a specially programmed POS terminal in the store, the retailer's electronic cash register (ECR) system, or web-based POS device that is connected to our network to buy prepaid mobile airtime. The customer will select a predefined amount of mobile airtime from the carrier of choice, and the retailer enters the selection into the POS terminal. The consumer will pay that amount to the retailer (in cash or other payment methods accepted by the retailer). The POS device then transmits the selected transaction to our processing center. Using the electronic connection we maintain with the mobile phone operator or drawing from our inventory of PINs, the purchased amount of mobile airtime will be either credited to the consumer's account or delivered via a PIN printed by the terminal and given to the consumer. In the case of PINs printed by the terminal, the consumer must then call the mobile phone operator's toll-free number to activate the purchased airtime to the consumer's mobile account. 

One difference in our relationships with various retailers and distributors is the way in which we charge for our services. For distributors and certain very large retailers, we charge a processing fee. However, the majority of our transactions occur with smaller retailers. With these clients, we receive a commission on each transaction that is withheld from the payments made to the mobile phone operator, and we share that commission with the retailers. 

Non-Mobile Products and Services 

Our POS network can be used for the distribution of other products and services. Although prepaid mobile airtime is the most significant product distributed through our epay Segment, additional products include long distance calling card plans, prepaid Internet plans, debit cards, gift cards, prepaid vouchers, transport payments, lottery payments, bill payment and digital content such as music, games and software. Through our cadooz subsidiary, we also distribute vouchers and physical gifts. In certain locations, the terminals used for prepaid services can also be used for electronic funds transfer to process credit and debit card payments for retail merchandise. In 2015, revenues and gross profit from products other than prepaid mobile airtime were approximately 54% and 46%, respectively, of the total for the epay Segment. 

Retailer and Distributor Contracts 

We provide our prepaid services through POS terminals or web-based POS devices installed in retail outlets or, in the case of major retailers, through direct connections between their ECR systems and our processing centers. In markets where we operate proprietary technology (the U.K., Germany, Australia, Poland, Ireland, New Zealand, Spain, Greece, India, Italy, Brazil and the U.S.), we generally own and maintain the POS terminals. In certain countries in Europe, the terminals are sold to the retailers or to distributors who service the retailer. Our agreements with major retailers for the POS services typically have one to three-year terms. These agreements include terms regarding the connection of our networks to the respective retailer's registers or payment terminals or the maintenance of POS terminals, and obligations concerning settlement and liability for transactions processed. Generally, our agreements with individual or small retailers have shorter terms and provide that either party can terminate the agreement upon three to six months' notice. 

In Germany, distributors are key intermediaries in the sale of mobile top-up. As a result, our business in Germany is substantially concentrated in, and dependent upon, relationships with our major distributors. The termination of any of our agreements with major distributors could materially and adversely affect our prepaid business in Germany. However, we have been establishing agreements with independent German retailers in order to diversify our exposure to such distributors. 

The number of transactions processed on our POS network has increased over the last five years at a CAGR of approximately 6% as indicated in the following table: 

(in millions) 

2012 

2014 

epay processing transactions per year 

1,064 

1,113 

1,115 

1,244 

1,335 

epay Segment Strategy 

The global strategy for the epay Segment is to grow market share by defending mature markets, focusing expansion activity in growth markets and adding positive operating income in all other developing markets. 

In addition to maintaining and growing market share in prepaid mobile airtime top-up, our growth strategy is achieved through the introduction of new products and content. New product initiatives focus on products outside of prepaid mobile airtime top-up and processing, including gift card malls, prepaid debit cards, transport and digital content, including music, software and games. Strategic execution behind new products includes the development of relationships with global consumer product brands. This strategy leverages the global scale of the epay business allowing global brands to be sold in many or all of the countries in which we have a presence. Examples of global brands we distribute include iTunes, Google Play and Microsoft products. 

Telecommunications companies and other content providers have a substantial opportunity to increase revenues by diversifying the products and services currently offered to their retailers. epay is deploying additional content through its POS network to retailers and distributors all over the world. The reach, capabilities and quality of the epay network are appealing as a global distribution channel. We are one of the largest worldwide multi-country operators, and believe we have a distinct competitive advantage from the existing relationships that we maintain with prepaid content providers and retailers. 

Seasonality 

The epay business is significantly impacted by seasonality during the fourth quarter and first quarter of each year due to the higher transaction levels during the holiday season and lower levels following the holiday season. 

Significant Customers and Government Contracts 

No individual customer of our epay Segment makes up greater than 10% of total consolidated revenues. epay has a contract for the technology and distribution infrastructure for six state-owned lotteries in Germany. In addition, epay has contracts with the state of Florida's (USA) Turnpike partners and Queensland Motorways in Australia. In New Zealand, we have a contract with Glo Bug prepaid power to allow customers to purchase prepaid power through various retail locations. Through Glo Bug, we have a contract with Mercury Energy, the power provider, which is a subsidiary of the government-owned enterprise, Mighty River Power. In Germany, cadooz has a contract with Deutsche Bahn, which is majority owned by the German state. We also have a contract for the distribution of mobile airtime with a Saudi company, which is majority owned by the Saudi government. There are no other government contracts in the epay Segment. 

Competition 

We face competition in the prepaid business in all of our markets. We compete with a few multinational companies that operate in several of our markets. In other markets, our competition is from smaller, local companies. The mobile operators in all of our markets have retail distribution networks, and in some markets, on-line distribution of their own through which they offer top-up services for their own products. 

We believe our size and market share are competitive advantages in many markets. In addition, we believe our platforms are a competitive advantage. We have extremely flexible technical platforms that enable us to tailor POS solutions to individual retailers and mobile operator requirements where appropriate. Our platforms are also able to provide value added services other than processing which makes us a more valuable partner to the mobile operators and retailers. We have introduced new digital products into the marketplace such as digital payment for online media subscriptions. Many of these products are not offered by our competitors and in many countries, these are new products. We are capitalizing on being the first to market for these products. 

The principal competitive factors in the epay Segment include price (that is, the level of commission paid to retailers for each transaction), breadth of products and up-time offered on the system. Major retailers with high volumes are in a position to demand a larger share of the commission, which increases the amount of competition among service providers. We are seeing signs that some mobile operators are expanding their distribution networks to provide top-up services on-line or via mobile devices, which provides other alternatives for consumers to use. 

Money Transfer Segment 

Overview 

We provide global money transfer services primarily under the brand names Ria, IME, XE and HiFX. Ria and IME provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services through a global network of more than 292,000 &#32;locations and our websites riamoneytransfer.com and imeremit.com. Most of our money transfers are originated through sending agents in approximately 32 countries, with money transfer delivery completed in 147 countries. The initiation of a consumer money transfer occurs through retail agents, Company-owned stores or online, while the delivery of money transfers can occur with bank correspondents, retailer agents or from certain ATMs. Our websites allow consumers to send funds online, generally using a credit or debit card, for pay-out directly to a bank account or for cash pickup. Additionally, XE provides foreign currency exchange information and offers money transfer services on its currency data websites (www.xe.com and www.x-rates.com), which are executed through a third party. 

In addition, we provide global account-to-account money transfer services under the brand name HiFX. We offer services via our HiFX websites (www.hifx.com, www.hifx.co.uk and www.hifx.com.au) and through HiFX customer service representatives. Through our HiFM brand, we offer cash management solutions and foreign currency risk management services to small-to-medium sized businesses. 

We monitor the number of transactions made through our money transfer networks. The number of transactions processed on our network has increased over the last five years at a CAGR of approximately 30% as indicated in the following table: 

(in millions) 

2012 

2014 

Money transfer transactions per year 

24.3 

30.7 

35.2 

48.5 

68.7 

Our sending agent network includes a variety of agents, including a large U.S.-based retailer, large/medium size regional retailers, convenience stores, bodegas, multi-service shops and phone centers, which are predominantly found in areas with a large immigrant population. Each Ria money transfer transaction is processed using Euronet's proprietary software system and checked for security, completeness and compliance with federal and state regulations at every step of the process. Senders can track the progress of their transfers through Ria's customer service representatives, and funds are delivered quickly to their beneficiaries via our extensive payout network, which includes large banks and non-bank financial institutions, post offices and large retailers. Our processing centers for the Money Transfer Segment are located in Buena Park, California, USA; Windsor, U.K.; Auckland, New Zealand; Kansas City, Missouri, USA; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. We operate Ria call centers in Buena Park, California; Antiguo Cuscatl&#225;n, El Salvador; and Madrid, Spain and provide multi-lingual customer service for both our agents and consumers. Additionally, we operate HiFX call centers in Windsor, U.K. and Sydney, Australia. 

Money Transfer Products and Services 

Money transfer products and services are sold primarily through three channels at agent locations, Company-owned stores and on internet enabled devices at riamoneytransfer.com, imeremit.com, xe.com and x-rates.com (online transactions). 

In an online transaction, customers send funds, generally using a credit or debit card, for pay-out at most of our agent locations around the world or directly to a bank account. 

Through our TeleRia service, customers connect to our call center from a telephone available at an agent location and a representative collects the information over the telephone and enters it directly into our secure proprietary system. As soon as the data capture is complete, our central system automatically faxes a confirmation receipt to the agent location for the customer to review and sign and the customer pays the agent the money to be transferred, together with a fee. The agent then faxes the signed receipt back to Ria to complete the transaction. 

In April 2014, the Company and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. launched a new money transfer service called Walmart-2-Walmart Money Transfer Service which allows customers to transfer money to and from Walmart stores in the U.S. Our Ria business executes the transfers with Walmart serving as both the sending agent and payout correspondent. Ria earns a lower margin from these transactions than its traditional money transfers; however, the arrangement has added a significant number of transactions to Ria&#8217;s business. The agreement with Walmart establishes Ria as the only party through which Walmart will sell U.S. domestic money transfers branded with Walmart marks. The agreement has an initial term of three years from the launch date which will automatically renew for an initial two year term and subsequent one year terms unless either party provides notice to the contrary. The agreement imposes certain obligations on each party, the most significant being service level requirements by Ria and money transfer compliance requirements by Walmart. Any violation of these requirements by Ria could result in an obligation to indemnify Walmart or termination of the contract by Walmart. However, the agreement allows the parties to resolve disputes by mutual agreement without termination of the agreement. 

In addition to money transfers, Ria also offers customers bill payment services, payment alternatives such as money orders, comprehensive check cashing services for a wide variety of issued checks, along with competitive foreign currency exchange services and mobile top-up. These services are all offered through our Company-owned stores while select services are offered through our agents in certain markets. 

Ria money orders are widely recognized and exchanged throughout the United States. Our check cashing services cover payroll and personal checks, cashier checks, tax refund checks, government checks, insurance drafts and money orders. Our bill payment services offer timely posting of customer bills for over 3000 companies, including electric and gas utilities and telephone/wireless companies. Bill payment services are offered primarily in the U.S. 

HiFX offers account-to-account international payment service to high-income individuals and small-to-medium sized businesses, complementing our existing consumer-to-consumer money transfer business. HiFX has an innovative multi-channel platform which allows customers to make transfers, track payments and manage their international payment activity online or through a customer service representative. HiFM offers cash management solutions and foreign currency risk management services to small-to-medium sized businesses. 

XE offers foreign currency exchange subscriptions, advertising on its websites and money transfer services on its websites which are executed by a third party. 

Sources of Revenues 

Revenues in the Money Transfer Segment are derived through the charging of a transaction fee, as well as a margin earned from purchasing foreign currency at wholesale exchange rates and selling the foreign currency to customers at retail exchange rates. Sending agents and receiving agents for consumer-to-consumer products each earn fees for cash collection and distribution services. Euronet recognizes these fees as direct operating costs at the time of sale. 

We are one of the largest global money transfer companies in terms of revenues and transaction volumes. Our Money Transfer Segment processed approximately $27.1 billion &#32;in money transfers in 2015 . 

Money Transfer Segment Strategy 

The Money Transfer Segment's strategy is to increase the volume of money transfers processed by leveraging our existing banking and merchant/retailer relationships to expand our agent and correspondent networks in existing corridors. In addition, we pursue expansion into high-potential money transfer corridors from the U.S. and internationally beyond the traditional U.S. to Mexico corridor. Further, we expect to continue to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities with our epay and EFT Processing Segments by providing prepaid services through our stores and agents, and offering our money transfer services at select prepaid retail locations and ATMs we operate in key markets. We will continue to make investments in our systems to support this growth. Additionally, we plan to expand our HiFX business into new markets. 

Seasonality 

Our money transfer business is significantly impacted by seasonality that varies by region. In most of our markets, we experience increased money transfer transaction levels during the month of May and in the fourth quarter of each year, coinciding with various holidays. Additionally, in the U.S. to Mexico corridor, we usually experience our heaviest volume during the May through October timeframe, coinciding with the increase in worker migration patterns and various holidays, and our lowest volumes during the first quarter. 

Significant Customers and Government Contracts 

No individual customer of our Money Transfer Segment makes up greater than 10% of total consolidated revenues. The Money Transfer Segment maintains correspondent relationships with a number of financial institutions whose ownership includes governments of the correspondents' countries of origin. Those countries include Armenia, Bangladesh, Benin, Brazil, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cape Verde, China, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Lithuania, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovenia, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine and Vietnam. 

Competition 

Our primary competitors in the money transfer and bill payment business include other large money transfer companies and electronic money transmitters, as well as certain major national and regional banks, financial institutions and independent sales organizations. Our competitors include The Western Union Company and MoneyGram International Inc. The Western Union Company has a significant competitive advantage due to its greater resources and access to capital for expansion. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers, agents or correspondents, which may result in a loss of our current or potential customers or could force us to lower our prices. In addition to traditional money payment services, new technologies are emerging that may effectively compete with traditional money payment services, such as stored-value cards, debit networks and web-based services and digital currencies. Our continued growth also depends upon our ability to compete effectively with these alternative technologies. 

Product Research, Development and Enhancement 

In the EFT Processing Segment, development has historically focused on expanding the range of services offered to our bank customers from ATM and POS outsourcing to card processing and software services. 

We are committed to the maintenance and improvement of our software products. We regularly engage in software product development and enhancement activities aimed at the development and delivery of new products, services and processes to our customers. Our research and development costs for software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed totaled $7.8 million , $8.7 million , and $7.3 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Development costs that were capitalized totaled $5.2 million , $5.8 million &#32;and $4.9 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

In our epay Segment, development has focused on expanding the types of electronic payment products and services available to consumers over our network to include, for example, prepaid vouchers, transport payments, lottery payments, gift and debit cards, and bill payment capabilities. This is intended to make our offerings more attractive to retailers. 

In the Money Transfer Segment, development has focused on expanding our services to Internet enabled devices through our www.riamoneytransfer.com, www.hifx.com, www.hifx.co.uk, www.hifx.com.au, www.imeremit.com, www.xe.com and www.x-rates.com websites. This is intended to expand our customer base in existing and new corridors. 

Financial Information by Geographic Area 

For information on results of operations, property and equipment, and total assets by geographic location, please see Note 16, Business Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, see Item 1A - Risk Factors, for risk factors related to foreign operations. 

Employees 

We had approximately 5,600 , 4,600 &#32;and 4,100 &#32;employees as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. We believe our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to recruit, retain and motivate qualified management, technical and administrative employees. Currently, no union represents any of our employees, except in our Spanish subsidiary. We experienced no work stoppages or strikes by our workforce in 2015 &#32;and we consider relations with our employees to be good. 

Government Regulation 

As discussed below, many of our business activities are subject to regulation in our current markets. In the Money Transfer Segment, we are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations of the U.S., individual U.S. states and foreign governments. These include international, federal and state anti-money laundering laws and regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing laws, escheat laws, laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security and consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws. Our operations have also been subject to increasingly strict requirements intended to help prevent and detect a variety of illegal financial activity, including money laundering, terrorist financing, unauthorized access to personal customer data and other illegal activities. The more significant of these laws and regulations are discussed below. Noncompliance with these laws and requirements could result in the loss or suspension of licenses or registrations required to provide money transfer services through retail agents, Company owned stores or online. For more discussion, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. 

Any further expansion of our activity into areas that are qualified as &#8220;financial activity&#8221; under local legislation may subject us to licensing and we may be required to comply with various conditions to obtain such licenses. Moreover, the interpretations of bank regulatory authorities as to the activity we currently conduct might change in the future. We monitor our business for compliance with applicable laws or regulations regarding financial activities. 

Certain of our European product offerings, including in particular, our money transfer services, merchant acquiring and bill payment products are subject to the PSD as implemented in each European country. The PSD requires a license to perform certain defined "payment services" in a European country, which may be extended throughout the European Economic Area Member States ("Member States") through passporting. Conditions for obtaining the license include minimum capital requirements, establishment of procedures for safeguarding of funds, and certain governance and reporting requirements. In addition, certain obligations relating to internal controls and the conduct of business, in particular, consumer disclosure requirements and certain rules regarding the timing and settlement of payments, must be met. We have payment institution licenses in the U.K., France, Germany, and Spain and are complying with these requirements. To date, we have passported our U.K. authorization to thirteen host member states operating under the PSD. Additionally, in the U.K., we have obtained an e-money license under the 2EMD. The e-money license allows Euronet to issue e-money and provide the same services as a PSD licensee. The e-money license imposes certain requirements similar to those of the payment services license, including minimum capital requirements, consumer disclosure and internal controls and can be passported to Member States. Our e-money license holder is currently operating in fifteen Member States. 

Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing 

Licensing requirements in the U.S. are generally driven by the various state banking departments regulating the businesses of money transfers and issuances of payment instruments. Typical requirements include the meeting of minimum net worth requirements, maintaining permissible investments (e.g., cash, agent receivables, and government-backed securities) at levels 

commensurate with outstanding payment obligations and the filing of a security instrument (typically in the form of a surety bond) to offset the risk of default of trustee obligations by the license holder. We are required by many state regulators to submit ongoing reports of licensed activity, most often on a quarterly or monthly basis, that address changes to agent and branch locations, operating and financial performance, permissible investments and outstanding transmission liabilities. These periodic reports are utilized by the regulator to monitor ongoing compliance with state licensing laws. A number of major state regulators also conduct periodic examinations of license holders and their authorized delegates, generally with a frequency of every one to two years. Examinations are most often comprehensive in nature, addressing both the safety and soundness and overall compliance by the license holder with regard to state and federal regulations. Such examinations are typically performed on-site at the license holder's headquarters or operations center; however, certain states may choose to perform examinations off-site as well. 

Money transmitters, issuers of payment instruments and their agents are required to comply with U.S. federal, state and/or foreign anti-money laundering laws and regulations. In summary, our Money Transfer Segment, as well as our agent network, is subject to regulations issued by the different state and foreign national regulators who license us, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;), the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the USA PATRIOT ACT (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (&#8220;FINCEN&#8221;), as well as any existing or future regulations that impact any aspect of our money transfer business. 

A similar set of regulations applies to our money transfer businesses in most of the foreign countries in which we originate transactions. These laws and regulations include monetary limits for money transfers into or out of a country, rules regarding the foreign currency exchange rates offered, as well as other limitations or rules for which we must maintain compliance. 

Regulatory bodies in the U.S. and abroad may impose additional rules on the conduct of our Money Transfer Segment that could have a significant impact on our operations and our agent network. In this regard, the U.S. federal government has implemented recent U.S. federal regulations for electronic money transfers. Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on July 21, 2010 (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), international money transfers were generally not addressed by existing federal consumer protection regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to provide consumer protections for international remittance transfers. On January 20, 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), established under the Dodd-Frank Act with authority to implement the consumer protective measures, adopted a rule that increased protections for consumers who transmit money internationally. The CFPB's Rule for International Remittances became effective October 28, 2013. Included among the protections are disclosure requirements, cancellation rights and error resolution procedures for consumer complaints. The CFPB audits our compliance with these rules, and we may be subject to fines or penalties for violations of any of such rules. 

Escheat Regulations 

Our Money Transfer Segment is subject to the unclaimed or abandoned property (i.e., &#8220;escheat&#8221;) regulations of the United States and certain foreign countries in which we operate. These laws require us to turn over property held by Euronet on behalf of others remaining unclaimed after specified periods of time (i.e., &#8220;dormancy&#8221; or &#8220;escheat&#8221; periods). Such abandoned property is generally attributable to the failure of beneficiary parties to claim money transfers or the failure to negotiate money orders, a form of payment instrument. We have policies and programs in place to help us monitor the required information relating to each money transfer or payment instrument for possible eventual reporting to the jurisdiction from which the order was originally received. In the U.S., reporting of unclaimed property by money service companies is performed annually, generally with a due date of on or before November 1. State banking department regulators will typically include a review of Euronet escheat procedures and related filings as part of their examination protocol. 

Privacy and Information Security Regulations 

Our Money Transfer Segment operations involve the collection and storage of certain types of personal customer data that are subject to privacy and security laws in the U.S. and abroad. In the United States, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;), which requires that financial institutions have in place policies regarding the collection, processing, storage and disclosure of information considered nonpublic personal information. Laws in other countries include those adopted by the member states of the European Union under Directive 95/46 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 (the &#8220;Directive&#8221;), as well as the laws of other countries. The Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to non-European Union member nations that do not provide adequate protection for personal data. In some cases, the privacy laws of an EU member state may be more restrictive than the Directive and may impose additional requirements that we must comply with to operate in the respective country. Generally, these laws restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information and require that we safeguard personal customer data to prevent unauthorized access. 

We comply with the GLBA and state privacy provisions. In addition, we comply with the Directive using the safe harbor permitted by the Directive by filing with the U.S. Department of Commerce, publicly declaring our privacy policy for information collected outside of the U.S., posting our privacy policy on our Website and requiring our agents in the European Union to notify customers of the privacy policy. 

Recently, as identity theft has been on the rise, there has been increased public attention to concerns about information security and consumer privacy, accompanied by laws and regulations addressing the issue. We believe we are compliant with these laws and regulations; however, this is a rapidly evolving area and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the existing and new regulations, which could have a material, adverse impact on our Money Transfer Segment business. 

Anti-corruption and Bribery 

&#160; 

We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which prohibits U.S. and other business entities from making improper payments to foreign government officials, political parties or political party officials. We are also subject to the applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, thus potentially exposing us to liability and potential penalties in multiple jurisdictions. The anti-corruption provisions of the FCPA are enforced by the United States Department of Justice. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission requires strict compliance with certain accounting and internal control standards set forth under the FCPA. Because our services are offered in many countries throughout the world, we face a higher risk associated with FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws than many other companies and we have policies and procedures in place to address compliance with the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws. Any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Failure to comply with our policies and procedures and the FCPA and other laws can expose Euronet and/or individual employees to potentially severe criminal and civil penalties. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Money Transfer Compliance Policies and Programs 

We have developed risk-based policies and programs to comply with existing and new laws, regulations and other requirements outlined above, including having dedicated compliance personnel, training programs, automated monitoring systems and support functions for our offices and agents. To assist in managing and monitoring our money laundering and terrorist financing risks, we continue to have our compliance programs, in many countries, independently examined on an annual basis. In addition, we continue to enhance our anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing compliance policy, procedures and monitoring systems. 

Intellectual Property 

Each of our three operating segments utilizes intellectual property which is protected in varying degrees by a combination of trademark, patent and copyright laws, as well as trade secret protection, license and confidentiality agreements. 

The brand names of &#8220;Ria,&#8221; &#8220;Ria Financial Services,&#8221; &#8220;Ria Envia,&#8221; &#8220;HiFX,&#8221; &#8220;HiFM,&#8221; &#8220;XE,&#8221; derivations of those brand names and certain other brand names are material to our Money Transfer Segment and are registered trademarks and/or service marks in most of the markets in which our Money Transfer Segment operates. Consumer perception of these brand names is important to the growth prospects of our money transfer business. We also hold a U.S. patent on a card-based money transfer and bill payment system that allows transactions to be initiated primarily through POS terminals and integrated cash register systems. 

With respect to our EFT Processing Segment, we have registered or applied for registration of our trademarks, including the names &#8220;Euronet&#8221; and &#8220;Bankomat&#8221; and/or our blue diamond logo, as well as other trade names in most markets in which these trademarks are used. Certain trademark authorities have notified us that they consider these trademarks to be generic and, therefore, not protected by trademark laws. This determination does not affect our ability to use the Euronet trademark in those markets, but it would prevent us from stopping other parties from using it in competition with Euronet. We have registered the &#8220;Euronet&#8221; trademark in the class of ATM machines in Germany, the U.K. and certain other Western European countries. We have filed pending applications and/or obtained patents for a number of our new software products and our processing technology, including certain top-up services. 

With respect to our epay Segment, we have filed trademark applications for the &#8220;epay&#8221; brand in the U.S., U.K., the European Union (&#8220;E.U.&#8221;) through a Community Trademark application, Brazil, India, Australia and New Zealand. The epay trademark has issued to registration in the U.S., U.K., the E.U., Australia and New Zealand. The trademark applications in the other jurisdictions are still pending. We cannot be certain that we are entitled to use the epay trademark in any markets other than those in which we have registered the trademark. We have filed patent applications for some of our POS top-up and certain 

other products in support of epay technology. Certain patents have been granted while others have been refused or are still pending. We also hold a patent license covering certain of epay's operations in the U.S. 

Technology in the areas in which we operate is developing very rapidly, and we are aware that many other companies have filed patent applications for products, processes and services similar to those we provide. The procedures of the U.S. patent office make it impossible for us to predict whether our patent applications will be approved or will be granted priority dates that are earlier than other patents that have been filed for similar products or services. Moreover, many &#8220;process patents&#8221; have been filed in the U.S. over recent years covering processes that are in wide use in the money transfer, EFT and prepaid processing industries. If any of these patents are considered to cover technology that has been incorporated into our systems, we may be required to obtain additional licenses and pay royalties to the holders of such patents to continue to use the affected technology or be prohibited from continuing the offering of such services if licenses are not obtained. This could materially and adversely affect our business. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The name, age, period of service and position held by each of our Executive Officers as of February 26, 2016 &#32;are as follows: 

Name 

Age 

Served Since 

Position Held 

Michael J. Brown 

July 1994 

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 

Rick L. Weller 

November 2002 

Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer 

Jeffrey B. Newman 

December 1996 

Executive Vice President - General Counsel 

Kevin J. Caponecchi 

July 2007 

Executive Vice President - Chief Executive Officer, epay, Software and EFT Asia Pacific Division 

Juan C. Bianchi 

April 2007 

Executive Vice President - Chief Executive Officer, Money Transfer Segment 

Nikos Fountas 

September 2009 

Executive Vice President - Chief Executive Officer, EFT Europe, Middle East and Africa Division 

Martin L. Bruckner 

January 2014 

Senior Vice President - Chief Technology Officer 

MICHAEL J. BROWN, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Brown is one of the founders of Euronet and has served as our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 1996, and has served as President since December 2014. He also co-founded our predecessor company in 1994. Mr. Brown has been a Director of Euronet since our incorporation in December 1996 and previously served on the boards of Euronet's predecessor companies. In 1979, Mr. Brown founded Innovative Software, Inc., a computer software company that was merged in 1988 with Informix. Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Informix from February 1988 to January 1989. He served as President of the Workstation Products Division of Informix from January 1989 until April 1990. In 1993, Mr. Brown was a founding investor of Visual Tools, Inc. Visual Tools, Inc. was acquired by Sybase Software in 1996. Mr. Brown received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Missouri - Columbia in 1979 and a M.S. in Molecular and Cellular Biology at the University of Missouri - Kansas City in 1997. 

RICK L. WELLER, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Weller has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Euronet since he joined Euronet in November 2002. From January 2002 to October 2002, he was the sole proprietor of Pivotal Associates, a business development firm. From November 1999 to December 2001, Mr. Weller held the position of Chief Operating Officer of ionex telecommunications, inc., a local exchange company. He is a certified public accountant and received his B.S. in Accounting from the University of Central Missouri. 

JEFFREY B. NEWMAN, Executive Vice President, General Counsel. Mr. Newman has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Euronet since January 2000. He joined Euronet in December 1996 as Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to this, he practiced law with the Washington, D.C. based law firm of Arent Fox Kintner Plotkin &#38; Kahn and the Paris based law firm of Salans Hertzfeld &#38; Heilbronn. He is a member of the District of Columbia, California and Paris, France bars. He received a B.A. in Political Science and French from Ohio University in 1976 and law degrees from Ohio State University and the University of Paris. 

KEVIN J. CAPONECCHI, Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Officer, epay, Software and EFT Asia Pacific Division. Mr. Caponecchi joined Euronet in July 2007 and served as President until assuming his current role in December 2014. Prior to joining Euronet, Mr. Caponecchi served in various capacities with subsidiaries of General Electric Company for 17 years. From 2003 until June 2007, Mr. Caponecchi served as President of GE Global Signaling, a provider of products and services to freight, passenger and mass transit systems. From 1998 through 2002, Mr. Caponecchi served as General Manager - Technology for GE Consumer &#38; Industrial, a provider of consumer appliances, lighting products and electrical products. Mr. Caponecchi holds degrees in physics from Franklin and Marshall College and industrial engineering from Columbia University. 

JUAN C. BIANCHI, Executive Vice President - Chief Executive Officer, Money Transfer Segment. Mr. Bianchi joined Euronet subsequent to the acquisition of Ria in 2007. Prior to the acquisition, Mr. Bianchi served as the Chief Executive Officer of Ria and has spent his entire career at either Ria or AFEX Money Express, a money transfer company purchased by Ria's founders. Mr. Bianchi began his career at AFEX in Chile in 1992, joined AFEX USA's operations in 1996, and became chief operating officer of AFEX-Ria in 2003. Mr. Bianchi studied business at the Universidad Andres Bello in Chile and completed the Executive Program in Management at UCLA's John E. Anderson School of Business. 

NIKOS FOUNTAS, Executive Vice President - Chief Executive Officer, EFT Europe, Middle East and Africa Division. Mr. Fountas has been Executive Vice President of the Company's EFT Processing Segment in Europe since December 2012. Mr. Fountas joined Euronet subsequent to the Company's 2005 acquisition of Instreamline S.A. (now Euronet Card Services) in Greece. He served as managing director of the Company's Greece EFT subsidiary, responsible for Euronet's European card processing and cross-border acquiring operations until September 2009. In September 2009, Mr. Fountas took over responsibilities as managing director of Euronet's Europe EFT Processing Segment. Prior to joining Euronet, Mr. Fountas spent over 20 years working in management and executive-level positions in the IT field for several companies, including IBM for 12 years. He has a degree in computer science (Honors) from York University in Canada and post graduate studies in business administration from Henley Management School and IBM Business Professional Institute. 

MARTIN L. BRUCKNER, Senior Vice President - Chief Technology Officer. Mr. Bruckner has been Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of Euronet since January 2014. Mr. Bruckner joined Euronet in 2007 as head of software development and IT operations for Transact GmbH. In 2009, he was promoted to Chief Technology Officer of Euronet's epay segment. Prior to joining Euronet, Mr. Bruckner established his own IT company called MLB Development GmbH, where he developed software systems for various European companies. Mr. Bruckner has more than 20 years of software development experience and published his first software product (BBS systems) at the age of 15. He received a Doctorate of Law from the University of Rostock and a law degree from the University of Bielefeld. 

&#32; Availability of Reports, Certain Committee Charters and Other Information 

Our Website addresses are www.euronetworldwide.com and www.eeft.com. We make available all Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) public filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act") on our Websites free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after these documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on our Websites is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. In addition, our SEC filings are made available via the SEC's EDGAR filing system accessible at www.sec.gov. 

The charters for our Audit, Compensation, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees, as well as the Code of Business Conduct &#38; Ethics for our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, are available on our Website at www.euronetworldwide.com in the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section. 

