 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

General 

Enterprise Financial Services Corp (&#8220;we&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221; or &#8220;Enterprise&#8221;), a Delaware corporation, is a financial holding company headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. We are the holding company for a full service banking subsidiary, Enterprise Bank &#38; Trust (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), offering banking and wealth management services to individuals and corporate customers primarily located in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix metropolitan markets. Our executive offices are located at 150 North Meramec, Clayton, Missouri 63105 and our telephone number is (314) 725-5500. 

Available Information 

Various reports provided to the SEC, including our annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports, and proxy statements, are available free of charge on our website at www.enterprisebank.com under "Investor Relations." These reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. 

Business Strategy 

Our stated mission is &#8220;to guide our clients to a lifetime of financial success.&#8221; We have established an accompanying corporate vision &#8220;to deliver customer and financial performance that positions us in the top quartile of our peers.&#8221; These tenets are fundamental to our business strategies and operations. 

Our general business strategy is to generate superior shareholder returns by providing comprehensive financial services primarily to private businesses, their owner families, and other success-minded individuals through banking and wealth management lines of business. The Company has one segment for purposes of its financial reporting. 

The Company offers a broad range of business and personal banking services, and wealth management services. Lending services include commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, real estate construction and development, residential real estate, and consumer loans. A wide variety of deposit products and a complete suite of treasury 

&#32;1 

management and international trade services complement our lending capabilities. Tax credit brokerage activities consist of the acquisition of Federal and State tax credits and the sale of these tax credits to clients. Enterprise Trust, a division of the Bank (&#8220;Enterprise Trust&#8221; or &#8220;Trust&#8221;), provides financial planning, estate planning, investment management, and trust services to businesses, individuals, institutions, retirement plans, and non-profit organizations. 

Key components of our strategy include a focused and relationship-oriented distribution and sales approach, with an emphasis on growing fee income and niche businesses, while maintaining prudent credit and interest rate risk management, appropriate supporting technology, and controlled expense growth. 

Building long-term client relationships - Our growth strategy is largely client relationship driven. We continuously seek to add clients who fit our target market of businesses, business owners, professionals, and associated relationships. Those relationships are maintained, cultivated, and expanded over time by trained, experienced banking officers and wealth advisors. We fund loan growth primarily with core deposits from our business and professional clients in addition to consumers in our branch market areas. This is supplemented by borrowing from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (the &#8220;FHLB&#8221;), the Federal Reserve, and by issuing brokered certificates of deposits. 

Fee income business &#32;- Enterprise Trust offers a wide range of fiduciary, investment management, and financial advisory services. We employ attorneys, certified financial planners, estate planning professionals, and other investment professionals. Enterprise Trust representatives assist clients in defining lifetime goals and designing plans to achieve them, consistent with the Company's long-term relationship strategy. We also offer a broad range of Treasury Management products and services that benefit businesses ranging from large national clients to the smallest local merchants. Customized solutions and special product bundles are available to clients of all sizes. Responding to ever increasing needs for tightened security and improved functional efficiency, the Company continues to offer robust treasury systems that employ advanced mobile technology and fraud detection/mitigation. The Company also offers card services, international banking, and tax credit businesses that generate fee income. 

Specialty Lending and Product Niches - &#32;We have focused an increasing amount of our lending activities in specialty markets where we believe our expertise and experience as a sophisticated commercial lender provides advantages over other competitors. In addition, we have developed expertise in certain product niches. These specialty niche activities focus on the following areas: 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Value Lending/Senior Debt Financing. We support mid-market company mergers and acquisitions primarily for Midwest-based manufacturing companies. We market directly to targeted private equity firms and provide a combination of senior debt and mezzanine debt financing. 

&#8226; 

Life Insurance Premium Finance. We specialize in financing high-end whole life insurance premiums utilized in high net worth estate planning. 

&#8226; 

Tax Credit Related Lending. We are a secured lender on affordable housing projects funded through the use of Federal and Missouri State Low Income Housing tax credits. In addition, we provide leveraged and other loans on projects funded through the Department of the Treasury CDFI New Markets Tax Credit program. In 2011, 2013, 2014, and 2015, we were selected as one of the relatively few banks to be allocated to distribute New Markets Tax Credits. In this capacity, we have been responsible for allocating a total of $183 million &#32;of tax credits to clients and projects. 

&#8226; 

Tax Credit Brokerage. We acquire Missouri state tax credits from affordable housing development funds and sell the tax credits to clients and other individuals for tax planning purposes. 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Advisory Services. We have developed a proprietary deposit platform allowing registered investment advisory firms to offer FDIC insured cash deposits in addition to other investment products. 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Aircraft Finance. Beginning in 2016, we established a unit specializing in financing and leasing solutions for the acquisition of fixed and rotor wing aircraft. 

Capitalizing on technology &#32;- We view our technological capabilities to be a competitive advantage. Our systems provide Internet banking, expanded treasury management products, check and document imaging, and remote deposit capture systems. Other services currently offered by the Bank include controlled disbursements, repurchase agreements, and sweep investment accounts. Our treasury management suite of products blends advanced technology and personal 

&#32;2 

service, which we believe often creates a competitive advantage over larger banks. Technology is also extensively utilized in internal systems, operational support functions, customer service, associate productivity, and management reporting and analysis. 

Maintaining asset quality &#32;- The Company monitors asset quality through formal, ongoing, multiple-level reviews of loans in each market. These reviews are overseen by the Company's credit administration department. In addition, the loan portfolio is subject to ongoing monitoring by a loan review function that reports directly to the Credit Committee of the Bank's Board of Directors. 

Expense management - The Company manages expenses carefully through detailed budgeting and expense approval processes. We measure the &#8220;efficiency ratio&#8221; as a benchmark for improvement. The efficiency ratio is equal to noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income plus noninterest income). Continued improvement is targeted to increase earnings per share and generate higher returns on equity. 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 

Between December 2009 and August 2011, the Bank entered into four agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of four failed banks: Valley Capital Bank, Home National Bank, Legacy Bank, and The First National Bank of Olathe. In conjunction with each of these, the Bank entered into loss share agreements, under which the FDIC agreed to reimburse the Bank for a percentage of losses on certain loans and other real estate acquired for the term of the agreement. In December 2015, the Bank entered into an agreement with the FDIC for early termination of all existing loss share agreements. The Bank will fully recognize all future recoveries, losses, and expenses related to the assets formerly covered by the agreements, and the FDIC will no longer share in those amounts. The Company expects its future earnings to be positively impacted due to the early termination. 

On December 6, 2013, the Bank completed the sale and closure of four of its branches in the Kansas City market. The sale agreement called for two branches to be sold to another financial institution, as well as $7.6 million of loans, $78.4 million of deposits, and $1.4 million of other assets. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.0 million primarily due to a premium received on the deposits sold as part of the transaction. 

Debt Repayments 

During 2014, the Company completed two transactions that significantly reduced its long term debt. On March 14, 2014, the Company converted $5.0 million, 9% coupon, trust preferred securities to shares of common stock. As a result of the transaction, the Company reduced its long-term debt by $5.0 million and issued an aggregate of approximately 0.3 million shares of common stock. On December 23, 2014, the Company prepaid $50.0 million of debt with the FHLB with a weighted average interest rate of 3.17% and a maturity of three years, and incurred a prepayment penalty of $2.9 million before income taxes. 

During 2013, the Company completed two transactions similar to the 2014 events to reduce long term debt and improve the overall cost of funding. On August 15, 2013, the Company converted $20.0 million, 9% coupon, trust preferred securities to shares of common stock. As a result of the transaction, the Company reduced its long-term debt by $20.0 million and issued an aggregate of 1.2 million shares of common stock. The Company issued 25,060 shares of additional common stock as an inducement for the conversion. On December 30, 2013, the Company prepaid $30.0 million of debt with the FHLB with a weighted average interest rate of 4.09% and a maturity of three years, and incurred a prepayment penalty of $2.6 million before income taxes. 

Market Areas and Approach to Geographic Expansion 

We operate in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix metropolitan areas. The Company, as part of its expansion effort, plans to continue its strategy of operating branches with larger average deposits, and employing experienced staff who are compensated on the basis of performance and customer service. 

St. Louis - We operate six &#32;banking facilities in the St. Louis metropolitan area. The St. Louis market enjoys a stable, diverse economic base, and is ranked the 19 th &#32;largest metropolitan statistical area in the United States. It is an attractive 

&#32;3 

market with nearly 70,000 privately held businesses and more than 50,000 households with investable assets of $1.0 million or more. 

Kansas City - We operate eight &#32;banking facilities in the Kansas City market. Kansas City is also an attractive private company market with over 50,000 privately held businesses and more than 40,000 households with investable assets of $1.0 million or more. It is the 29 th &#32;largest metropolitan area in the U.S. 

Phoenix - We operate two &#32;banking facilities in the Phoenix metropolitan area. Phoenix is the nation's 12 th &#32;largest metropolitan area, and has more than 90,000 privately held businesses and more than 80,000 households with investable assets over $1.0 million. We believe Phoenix is a dynamic growth market and offers attractive growth prospects for our business. 

Competition 

The Company and its subsidiaries operate in highly competitive markets. Our geographic markets are served by a number of large financial and bank holding companies with substantial capital resources and lending capacity. Many of the larger banks have established specialized units, which target private businesses and high net worth individuals. Also, the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix markets have numerous small community banks. In addition to other financial holding companies and commercial banks, we compete with credit unions, thrifts, investment managers, brokerage firms, and other providers of financial services and products. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following is a summary description of the relevant laws, rules, and regulations governing banks and financial holding companies. The description of, and references to, the statutes and regulations below are brief summaries and do not purport to be complete. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the related statutes and regulations. 

The regulatory and supervisory structure establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of shareholders or creditors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies concerning the establishment of deposit insurance assessment fees, classification of assets and establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. 

Various legislation is from time to time introduced in Congress and Missouri's legislature. Such legislation may change applicable statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that future legislation or implementing regulations would have upon our financial condition or upon our results of operations or the results of operations of any of our subsidiaries. 

On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ("Dodd-Frank Act"), which contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act made extensive changes in the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies. 

Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole or on our and the Bank's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are in the process of being implemented while other aspects remain subject to further rulemaking. These regulations will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or the financial industry more generally. However, it is likely that the Dodd-Frank Act will increase the regulatory burden, compliance costs and interest expense for the Company. 

Financial Holding Company 

The Company is a financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;). As a financial holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, and is required to file periodic reports of its operations and such additional information as the Federal Reserve 

&#32;4 

may require. In order to remain a financial holding company, the Company must continue to be considered well managed and well capitalized by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank must continue to be considered well managed and well capitalized by the FDIC, and have at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating under the Community Reinvestment Act. See &#8220;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; in the Management Discussion and Analysis for more information on our capital adequacy, and &#8220;Bank Subsidiary - Community Reinvestment Act&#8221; below for more information on the Community Reinvestment Act. 

Acquisitions: &#32;With certain limited exceptions, the BHCA requires every financial holding company or bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring substantially all the assets of any bank, (ii) acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after such acquisition, it would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank (unless it already owns or controls the majority of such shares), or (iii) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. Additionally, the BHCA provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any of these transactions if it would result in or tend to create a monopoly, substantially lessen competition, or otherwise function as a restraint of trade, unless the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, which is described below. 

Change in Bank Control: &#32;Subject to various exceptions, the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with related regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank or financial holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company. Control is rebuttably presumed to exist if a person or company acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities of the Company. The regulations provide a procedure for challenging rebuttable presumptions of control. 

Permitted Activities: &#32;The BHCA has generally prohibited a bank holding company from engaging in activities other than banking or managing or controlling banks or other permissible subsidiaries and from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect control of any company engaged in any activities other than those determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act have expanded the permissible activities of a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding company. Under the regulations implementing the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, a financial holding company may engage in additional activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to financial activities. Those activities include, among other activities, certain insurance, advisory and securities activities. 

Support of Bank Subsidiaries: &#32;Under Federal Reserve policy, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, this longstanding policy has been given the force of law and additional regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve to further implement the intent of the statute are possible. As in the past, such financial support from the Company may be required at times when, without this legal requirement, the Company may not be inclined to provide it. 

Capital Adequacy: The Company is also subject to capital requirements applied on a consolidated basis, which are substantially similar to those required of the Bank (summarized below). 

&#160; 

Dividend Restrictions: &#32;Under Federal Reserve policies, financial holding companies may pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition and if the organization is not in danger of not meeting its minimum regulatory capital requirements. Federal Reserve policy also provides that financial holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the financial holding company's ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. 

&#32;5 

Bank Subsidiary 

At December 31, 2015 , Enterprise Bank &#38; Trust was our only bank subsidiary. The Bank is a Missouri trust company with banking powers and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Missouri Division of Finance. In addition, as a Federal Reserve non-member bank, it is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC. The Bank is a member of the FHLB of Des Moines. 

The Bank is subject to extensive federal and state regulatory oversight. The various regulatory authorities regulate or monitor all areas of the banking operations, including security devices and procedures, adequacy of capitalization and loss reserves, loans, investments, borrowings, deposits, mergers, issuance of securities, payment of dividends, interest rates payable on deposits, interest rates or fees chargeable on loans, establishment of branches, corporate reorganizations, maintenance of books and records, and adequacy of staff training to carry on safe lending and deposit gathering practices. The Bank must maintain certain capital ratios and is subject to limitations on aggregate investments in real estate, bank premises, low income housing projects, and furniture and fixtures. In connection with their supervision and regulation responsibilities, the Bank is subject to periodic examination by the FDIC and Missouri Division of Finance. 

Capital Adequacy: &#32;&#32;The Bank is required to comply with the FDIC&#8217;s capital adequacy standards for insured banks. The FDIC has issued risk-based capital and leverage capital guidelines for measuring capital adequacy, and all applicable capital standards must be satisfied for the Bank to be considered in compliance with regulatory capital requirements. 

On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule to establish a new comprehensive regulatory capital framework for all U.S. banking organizations. On July 9, 2013, the final rule was approved (as an interim final rule) by the FDIC. This regulatory capital framework, commonly referred to as Basel III, implements several changes to the U.S. regulatory capital framework required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new U.S. capital framework imposes higher minimum capital requirements, additional capital buffers above those minimum requirements, a more restrictive definition of capital and higher risk weights for various enumerated classifications of assets, the combined impact of which effectively results in substantially more demanding capital standards for U.S. banking organizations. 

The Basel III final rule established a new Common equity tier 1 capital ("CET1") requirement, an increase in the Tier 1 capital requirement from 4.0% to 6.0%, and maintains the current 8.0% total capital requirement. The new CET1 and minimum Tier 1 capital requirements were effective January 1, 2015. In addition to these minimum risk-based capital ratios, the Basel III final rule requires that all banking organizations maintain a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of CET1 capital in an amount equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets in order to avoid restrictions on their ability to make capital distributions and to pay certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. In order to avoid those restrictions, the capital conservation buffer, when fully implemented, will effectively increase the minimum CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and total capital ratios for U.S. banking organizations to 7.0%, 8.5%, and 10.5%, respectively. Banking organizations with capital levels that fall within the buffer will be required to limit dividends, share repurchases or redemptions (unless replaced within the same calendar quarter by capital instruments of equal or higher quality), and discretionary bonus payments. The capital conservation buffer is being phased in over a five year period that began January 1, 2016. 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Basel III final rule requires that capital instruments such as trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred shares be phased-out of Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016, for banking organizations that had $15 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009, and grandfathers as Tier 1 capital such instruments issued by smaller entities prior to May 19, 2010 (provided they do not exceed 25% of Tier 1 capital). The Company's trust preferred securities are grandfathered under this provision. 

The Basel III final rule requires that goodwill and other intangible assets (other than mortgage servicing assets), net of associated deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs"), be deducted from CET1 capital. Additionally, deferred tax assets ("DTAs") that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of associated DTLs and valuation allowances, are fully deducted from CET1 capital. However, DTAs arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks, along with mortgage servicing assets and "significant" (defined as 

&#32;6 

greater than 10% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the unconsolidated financial institution) investments in the common stock of unconsolidated "financial institutions" are partially includible in CET1 capital, subject to deductions defined in the final rule. 

Prompt Corrective Action: The Bank&#8217;s capital categories are determined for the purpose of applying the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; rules described below and may be taken into consideration by banking regulators in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. They are not necessarily an accurate representation of a bank's overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. A failure to meet the capital guidelines could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement actions under those rules, including the issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on the taking of brokered deposits, and other restrictions on its business. As described below, the FDIC also can impose other substantial restrictions on banks that fail to meet applicable capital requirements. 

Federal law establishes a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized banks. Under this system, the FDIC has established five capital categories (&#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;) and is required to take various mandatory supervisory actions, and is authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to banks in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of any such actions taken will depend upon the capital category in which a bank is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, current federal law requires the FDIC to appoint a receiver or conservator for a bank that is critically undercapitalized. 

Under the FDIC&#8217;s prompt corrective action rules, a bank that (1) has a Total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (the &#8220;Total Capital Ratio&#8221;) of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (the &#8220;Tier 1 Capital Ratio&#8221;) of 8.0% or greater, a CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (the "CET1 Capital Ratio") of 6.5% or greater, and a Tier 1 Capital to average assets (the &#8220;Leverage Ratio&#8221;) of 5.0% or greater, and (2) is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by the FDIC, is considered to be &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; A bank with a Total Capital Ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater, a CET1 Capital Ratio of 4.5% or greater, and a Leverage Ratio of 4.0% or greater, is considered to be &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; A bank that has a Total Capital Ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of less than 6.0%, a CET1 Capital Ratio of less than 4.5%, or a Leverage Ratio of less than 4.0%, is considered to be &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; A bank that has a Total Capital Ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of less than 3.0%, a CET1 Capital Ratio of less than 3.0%, or a Leverage Ratio of less than 4.0%, is considered to be &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and a bank that has a tangible equity capital to total assets ratio equal to or less than 2.0% is deemed to be &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A bank may be considered to be in a capitalization category lower than indicated by its actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating or is subject to a regulatory action that requires heightened levels of capital. 

A bank that becomes &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to the FDIC. An &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; bank also is generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing new branches, or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Also, the FDIC may treat an &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; bank as being &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it determines that those actions are necessary to carry out the purpose of the law. 

At December 31, 2015 , all of the Bank&#8217;s capital ratios were at levels that would qualify it to be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; for regulatory purposes. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: &#32;&#32;The Dodd-Frank Act centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection including implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws with Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"). Depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as our Bank, will be subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB but will continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. 

The Bank is also subject to other laws and regulations intended to protect consumers in transactions with depository institutions, as well as other laws or regulations affecting customers of financial institutions generally. While the list 

&#32;7 

set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations. 

UDAP and UDAAP: &#32;Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used a general consumer protection statute to address "unethical" or otherwise "bad" business practices that may not necessarily fall directly under the purview of a specific banking or consumer finance law. The law of choice for enforcement against such business practices has been Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act-the primary federal law that prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices and unfair methods of competition in or affecting commerce ("UDAP" or "FTC Act"). "Unjustified consumer injury" is the principal focus of the FTC Act. Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, there was little formal guidance to provide insight to the parameters for compliance with the UDAP law. However, the UDAP provisions have been expanded under the Dodd-Frank Act to apply to "unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices" ("UDAAP"), which has been delegated to the CFPB for supervision. The CFPB has brought a variety of enforcement actions for violations of UDAAP provisions and CFPB guidance continues to evolve. 

Mortgage Reform: &#32;The CFPB has adopted final rules implementing minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages, including standards regarding a customer's ability to repay, restricting variable rate lending by requiring the ability to repay variable-rate loans be determined by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a "qualified mortgage" as defined by the CFPB. 

Dividends by the Bank Subsidiary: Under Missouri law, the Bank may pay dividends to the Company only from a portion of its undivided profits and may not pay dividends if its capital is impaired. As an insured depository institution, federal law prohibits the Bank from making any capital distributions, including the payment of a cash dividend if it is &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; or after making the distribution would become undercapitalized. If the FDIC believes that the Bank is engaged in, or about to engage in, an unsafe or unsound practice, the FDIC may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from that practice. The FDIC has indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The FDIC has issued policy statements that provide that insured banks generally should pay dividends only from their current operating earnings. The Bank&#8217;s payment of dividends also could be affected or limited by other factors, such as events or circumstances which lead the FDIC to require that it maintain capital in excess of regulatory guidelines. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders: &#32;The Bank is subject to the provisions of Regulation W promulgated by the Federal Reserve, which encompasses Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. Regulation W places limits and conditions on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. Regulation W also prohibits, among other things, an institution from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Federal law also places restrictions on the Bank&#8217;s ability to extend credit to its executive officers, directors, principal shareholders and their related interests. These extensions of credit must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated third parties; and must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. 

Community Reinvestment Act: &#32;&#32;The Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within its jurisdiction, the FDIC shall evaluate the record of the financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of their local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of those institutions. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. The Bank has a satisfactory rating under CRA. 

&#32;8 

USA Patriot Act: The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "USA PATRIOT Act") requires each financial institution to: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program; (ii) establish due diligence policies, procedures and controls with respect to its private banking accounts and correspondent banking accounts involving foreign individuals and certain foreign banks; and (iii) implement certain due diligence policies, procedures and controls with regard to correspondent accounts in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign bank that does not have a physical presence in any country. In addition, the USA PATRIOT Act contains a provision encouraging cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory authorities and law enforcement authorities with respect to individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. 

Commercial Real Estate Lending: &#32;The Bank&#8217;s lending operations may be subject to enhanced scrutiny by federal banking regulators based on its concentration of commercial real estate loans. On December 6, 2006, the federal banking regulators issued final guidance to remind financial institutions of the risk posed by commercial real estate (&#8220;CRE&#8221;) lending concentrations. CRE loans generally include land development, construction loans, and loans secured by multifamily property, and non-farm, nonresidential real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property. The guidance prescribes the following guidelines for its examiners to help identify institutions that are potentially exposed to significant CRE risk, including concentrations in certain types of CRE that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny: total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of the institutions total capital; or total commercial real estate loans represent 300% or more of the institution&#8217;s total capital, and the outstanding balance of the institution&#8217;s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more. 

Volcker Rule: &#32;On December 10, 2013, the federal regulators adopted final regulations to implement the proprietary trading and private fund prohibitions of the Volcker Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final regulations, which became effective July 21, 2015, banking entities are generally prohibited, subject to significant exceptions from: (i) short-term proprietary trading as principal in securities and other financial instruments, and (ii) sponsoring or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in private equity and hedge funds. The Federal Reserve has granted an extension to conform with the retention of ownership interest in private equity and hedge funds until July 21, 2016, and has indicated that they will grant an additional one year extension to July 21, 2017. The Company plans to comply within the conformance period and does not believe that the Volcker Rule will have a material impact on its investment portfolio. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 459 &#32;full-time equivalent employees. None of the Company's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that its relationship with its employees is good. 

