 Item 1. Business 

General 

Eagle Financial Services, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a bank holding company that was incorporated in 1991. The company is headquartered in Berryville, Virginia and conducts its operations through its subsidiary, Bank of Clarke County (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). The Bank is chartered under Virginia law. 

The Bank has twelve full-service branches and one drive-through only facility. The Bank&#8217;s main office is located at 2 East Main Street in Berryville, Virginia. The Bank opened for business on April 1, 1881. The Bank has offices located in Clarke County and Frederick County, as well as the Towns of Leesburg, Purcellville, and Ashburn, and the City of Winchester. This market area is located in the Shenandoah Valley and Northern Virginia. 

The Bank offers a wide range of retail and commercial banking services, including demand, savings and time deposits and consumer, mortgage and commercial loans. The Bank has thirteen ATM locations in its trade area and issues both ATM cards and Debit cards to deposit customers. These cards can be used to withdraw cash at most ATM&#8217;s through the Bank&#8217;s membership in both regional and national networks. These cards can also be used to make purchases at retailers who accept transactions through the same regional and national networks. The Bank offers telephone banking, internet banking, and mobile banking to its customers. Internet banking also offers online bill payment to consumer and commercial customers. The Bank offers other commercial deposit account services such as ACH origination and remote deposit capture. 

Eagle Investment Group (&#8220;EIG&#8221;) offers both a trust department and investment services. The trust services division of EIG offers a full range of personal and retirement plan services, which include serving as agent for bill paying and custody of assets, as investment manager with full authority or advisor, as trustee or co-trustee for trusts under will or under agreement, as trustee of life insurance trusts, as guardian or committee, as agent under a power of attorney, as executor or co-executor for estates, as custodian or investment advisor for individual retirement plans, and as trustee or trust advisor for corporate retirement plans such as profit sharing and 401(k) plans. The brokerage division of EIG offers a full range of investment services, which include tax-deferred annuities, IRAs and rollovers, mutual funds, retirement plans, 529 college savings plans, life insurance, long term care insurance, fixed income investing, brokerage CDs, and full service or discount brokerage services. Non-deposit investment products are offered through a third party provider. 

In addition to the Bank, as of December 31, 2014, the Company had a wholly owned subsidiary, Eagle Financial Statutory Trust II, which was formed in connection with the issuance of $7,000,000 in trust preferred securities in 2007. On August 7, 2015, the Eagle Financial Statutory Trust II was dissolved. The Company&#8217;s subsidiary, Bank of Clarke County, is a partner in Bankers Title Shenandoah, LLC, which sells title insurance and is an investor in Virginia Bankers Insurance Center, LLC, which serves as the broker for insurance sales through its member banks. Bank of Clarke County is also an investor in State Theatre Owner, LLC which rehabilitated the State Theatre of Culpeper, Virginia and is an investor in Moore Street Investor, LLC which is rehabilitating two buildings located in Richmond, Virginia. 

Employees 

The Company, including the Bank, had 54 officers, 108 other full-time and 20 part-time employees (or 171 full-time equivalent employees) at December 31, 2015 . None of the Company&#8217;s employees are represented by a union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers relations with its employees to be excellent. 

Securities and Exchange Commission Filings 

The Company maintains an internet website at www.bankofclarke.com . Shareholders of the Company and the public may access, free of charge, the Company&#8217;s periodic and current reports (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports) filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, through the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of the Company&#8217;s website. The reports are made available on this website as soon as practicable following the filing of the reports with the SEC. The information is free of charge and may be reviewed, downloaded and printed from the website at any time. 

Competition 

There is significant competition for both loans and deposits within the Company&#8217;s trade area. Competition for loans comes from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage brokers, finance companies, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders. Competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, brokerage firms, and other financial institutions. Based on total deposits at June 30, 2015 as reported to the FDIC, the Company has 6.6% of the total deposits in its market area. The Company&#8217;s market area includes Clarke County, Frederick County, Loudoun County and the City of Winchester. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General . As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. As a state-chartered commercial bank, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Virginia State Corporation Commission&#8217;s Bureau of Financial Institutions. It is also subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Other federal and state laws, including various consumer and compliance laws, govern the activities of the Bank, the investments that it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that it may grant to one borrower. 

The following sections summarize the significant federal and state laws applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. To the extent that statutory or regulatory provisions are described, the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to that particular statutory or regulatory provision. 

The Bank Holding Company Act . Under the Bank Holding Company Act, the Company is subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve and is required to file periodic reports regarding its operations and any additional information that the Federal Reserve may require. Activities at the bank holding company level are limited to the following: 

&#8226; 

banking, managing or controlling banks; 

&#8226; 

furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries; and 

&#8226; 

engaging in other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to these activities. 

Some of the activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined by regulation to be closely related to the business of a bank holding company include making or servicing loans and specific types of leases, performing specific data processing services and acting in some circumstances as a fiduciary or investment or financial adviser. 

With some limited exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: 

&#8226; 

acquiring substantially all the assets of any bank; 

&#8226; 

acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank (unless it already owns or controls the majority of such shares); or 

&#8226; 

merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. 

In addition, and subject to some exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with their regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the bank holding company. Prior notice to the Federal Reserve is required if a person acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company and either has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or no other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. 

In November 1999, Congress enacted the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;), which made substantial revisions to the statutory restrictions separating banking activities from other financial activities. Under the GLBA, bank holding companies that are well-capitalized and well-managed and meet other conditions can elect to become &#8220;financial holding companies.&#8221; As financial holding companies, they and their subsidiaries are permitted to acquire or engage in previously impermissible activities such as insurance underwriting, securities underwriting and distribution, travel agency activities, insurance agency activities, merchant banking and other activities that the Federal Reserve determines to be financial in nature or complementary to these activities. Financial holding companies continue to be subject to the overall oversight and supervision of the Federal Reserve, but the GLBA applies the concept of functional regulation to the activities conducted by subsidiaries. For example, insurance activities would be subject to supervision and regulation by state insurance authorities. Although the Company has not elected to become a financial holding company in order to exercise the broader activity powers provided by the GLBA, the Company may elect do so in the future. 

Payment of Dividends . The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The majority of the Company&#8217;s revenues are from dividends paid to the Company by the Bank. The Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends it can pay. In addition, both the Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums. Banking regulators have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if the organization&#8217;s current earnings are sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Company does not expect that any of these laws, regulations or policies will materially affect the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company. Refer to Item 5 for additional information on dividend restrictions. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , the Bank paid $6.6 million &#32;in dividends to the Company. The Company paid cash dividends of $2.1 million &#32;to shareholders during 2015 . 

The FDIC has the general authority to limit the dividends paid by insured banks if the payment is deemed an unsafe and unsound practice. The FDIC has indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsound and unsafe banking practice. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Insurance of Accounts, Assessments and Regulation by the FDIC . The Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act permanently raised the standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000. The FDIC has implemented a risk-based assessment system in which insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors. Effective April 1, 2011, the assessment base is an institution&#8217;s average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, and the initial base assessment rates are between 5 and 35 basis points depending on the institutions risk category, and subject to potential adjustment based on certain long-term unsecured debt and brokered deposits held by the institution. 

Capital Requirements . The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking agencies have issued risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to U.S. banking organizations. Those regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. 

On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a series of proposed rules intended to revise and strengthen its risk-based and leverage capital requirements and its method for calculating risk-weighted assets. The rules were proposed to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved certain revisions to the proposals and finalized new capital requirements for banking organizations. 

Under the risk-based capital requirements of the Federal Reserve that became effective January 1, 2015, the Company and the Bank are required to maintain a minimum ratio to total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0% (unchanged from the prior requirement). At least 6% of the total capital is required to be &#8220;Tier 1 capital,&#8221; which consists principally of common and certain qualifying preferred shareholders&#8217; equity (including grandfathered trust preferred securities) as well as retained earnings, less certain intangibles and other adjustments (increased from the prior requirement of 4.0%). The &#8220;Tier 2 capital&#8221; consists of cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of subordinated and other qualifying debt (including certain hybrid capital instruments), and a limited amount of the general loan loss allowance. A common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets was added with the new rules effective January 1, 2015. 

Each of the federal bank regulatory agencies also has established a minimum leverage capital ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets (&#8220;Tier 1 leverage ratio&#8221;). The guidelines require a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3.0% for financial holding companies and banking organizations with the highest supervisory rating. All other banking organizations were required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0% unless a different minimum was specified by an appropriate regulatory authority (unchanged from the prior requirement). In addition, for a depository institution to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its Tier 1 leverage ratio must be at least 5.0%. Banking organizations that have experienced internal growth or made acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. The Federal Reserve has not advised the Company or the Bank of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to either entity. 

The capital requirements that became effective January 1, 2015 are the initial capital obligations, which will be phased in over a four-year period. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the rules will require the Company and the Bank to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; (which is added to the 4.5% common equity Tier 1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation); (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation); (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing by the same amount each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

With respect to the Bank, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s final rules also revised the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA by (i) introducing a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum ratio for well-capitalized status being 8.0% (as compared to the prior ratio of 6.0%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provided that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3.0% Tier 1 leverage ratio and still be well-capitalized. These new thresholds were effective for the Bank as of January 1, 2015. The minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (10.0%) and minimum leverage ratio (5.0%) for well-capitalized status were unchanged by the final rules. 

The new capital requirements also include changes in the risk weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development, and construction loans and nonresidential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status, a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable, a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, and increased risk-weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations . There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance funds in the event that the depository institution is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, under the requirements of the Federal Reserve Board with respect to bank holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the &#8220;cross-guarantee&#8221; provisions of federal law require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the FDIC as a result of the insolvency of commonly controlled insured depository institutions or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled insured depository institutions in danger of failure. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interests of the deposit insurance funds. The FDIC&#8217;s claim for reimbursement under the cross guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of subordinated debt of the commonly controlled insured depository institutions. 

Interstate Banking and Branching . Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and bank holding companies without geographic limitation. Effective June 1, 1997, a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, as long as neither of the states had opted out of such interstate merger authority prior to such date. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. 

Monetary Policy . The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in United States government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing and changes in reserve requirements against deposits held by all federally insured banks. The Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In view of changing conditions in the national and international economy and in the money markets, as well as the effect of actions by monetary fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, no prediction can be made as to possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or the business and earnings of the Bank. 

Federal Reserve System . In 1980, Congress enacted legislation that imposed reserve requirements on all depository institutions that maintain transaction accounts or nonpersonal time deposits. NOW accounts, money market deposit accounts and other types of accounts that permit payments or transfers to third parties fall within the definition of transaction accounts and are subject to these reserve requirements, as are any nonpersonal time deposits at an institution. 

The reserve percentages are subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve Board. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in a non-interest-bearing account at, or on behalf of, a Federal Reserve Bank, the effect of the reserve requirement is to reduce the amount of the institution&#8217;s interest-earning assets. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Transactions between banks and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of a bank is any bank or entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B (i) limit the extent to which the Bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and maintain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus, and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the association or subsidiary as those provided to a nonaffiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar other types of transactions. 

Transactions with Insiders . The Federal Reserve Act and related regulations impose specific restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of banks. Under Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, loans to a director, an executive officer and to a principal shareholder of a bank, and some affiliated entities of any of the foregoing, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and affiliated entities, the bank&#8217;s loan-to-one borrower limit. Loans in the aggregate to insiders and their related interests as a class may not exceed two times the bank&#8217;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus until the bank&#8217;s total assets equal or exceed $100,000,000, at which time the aggregate is limited to the bank&#8217;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(h) also prohibits loans, above amounts prescribed by the appropriate federal banking agency, to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of a bank or bank holding company, and their respective affiliates, unless such loan is approved in advance by a majority of the board of directors of the bank with any &#8220;interested&#8221; director not participating in the voting. The FDIC has prescribed the loan amount, which includes all other outstanding loans to such person, as to which such prior board of director approval is required, as being the greater of $25,000 or 5% of capital and surplus (up to $500,000). Section 22(h) requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders be made on terms and underwriting standards substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that banks may not &#8220;purchase an asset from, or sell an asset to&#8221; a bank insider (or their related interests) unless (i) the transaction is conducted on market terms between the parties, and (ii) if the proposed transaction represents more than 10 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the bank, it has been approved in advance by a majority of the bank&#8217;s non-interested directors. 

Community Reinvestment Act . Under the Community Reinvestment Act and related regulations, depository institutions have an affirmative obligation to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas, including low and moderate-income areas, consistent with safe and sound banking practice. The Community Reinvestment Act directs each bank to maintain a public file containing specific information, including all written comments received from the public for the current year and each of the previous two calendar years that specifically relate to the bank&#8217;s performance in helping to meet community credit needs. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act and are periodically assigned ratings in this regard. Banking regulators consider a depository institution&#8217;s Community Reinvestment Act rating when reviewing applications to establish new branches, undertake new lines of business, and/or acquire part or all of another depository institution. An unsatisfactory rating can significantly delay or even prohibit regulatory approval of a proposed transaction by a bank holding company or its depository institution subsidiaries. 

The GLBA and federal bank regulators have made various changes to the Community Reinvestment Act. Among other changes, Community Reinvestment Act agreements with private parties must be disclosed and annual reports must be made to a bank&#8217;s primary federal regulator. A bank holding company will not be permitted to become a financial holding company and no new activities authorized under the GLBA may be commenced by a holding company or by a bank financial subsidiary if any of its bank subsidiaries received less than a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating in its latest Community Reinvestment Act examination. 

Fair Lending; Consumer Laws . In addition to the Community Reinvestment Act, other federal and state laws regulate various lending and consumer aspects of the banking business. Governmental agencies, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, have become concerned that prospective borrowers experience discrimination in their efforts to obtain loans from depository and other lending institutions. These agencies have brought litigation against depository institutions alleging discrimination against borrowers. Many of these suits have been settled, in some cases for material sums, short of a full trial. 

These governmental agencies have clarified what they consider to be lending discrimination and have specified various factors that they will use to determine the existence of lending discrimination under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, including evidence that a lender discriminated on a prohibited basis, evidence that a lender treated applicants differently based on prohibited factors in the absence of evidence that the treatment was the result of prejudice or a conscious intention to discriminate, and evidence that a lender applied an otherwise neutral non-discriminatory policy uniformly to all applicants, but the practice had a discriminatory effect, unless the practice could be justified as a business necessity. 

Banks and other depository institutions are also subject to numerous consumer-oriented laws and regulations. These laws, which include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the Fair Housing Act, require compliance by depository institutions with various disclosure requirements and requirements regulating the availability of funds after deposit or the making of some loans to customers. 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 . The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 was signed into law on November 12, 1999. The GLBA covers a broad range of issues, including a repeal of most of the restrictions on affiliations among depository institutions, securities firms and insurance companies. The following description summarizes some of its significant provisions. 

The GLBA repeals sections 20 and 32 of the Glass-Steagall Act, thus permitting unrestricted affiliations between banks and securities firms. It also permits bank holding companies to elect to become financial holding companies. A financial holding company may engage in or acquire companies that engage in a broad range of financial services, including securities activities such as underwriting, dealing, investment, merchant banking, insurance underwriting, sales and brokerage activities. In order to become a financial holding company, the bank holding company and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be well-capitalized, well-managed and have at least a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act rating. 

The GLBA provides that the states continue to have the authority to regulate insurance activities, but prohibits the states in most instances from preventing or significantly interfering with the ability of a bank, directly or through an affiliate, to engage in insurance sales, solicitations or cross-marketing activities. Although the states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in specific areas identified under the law. Under the new law, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted insurance consumer protection regulations that apply to sales practices, solicitations, advertising and disclosures. 

The GLBA adopts a system of functional regulation under which the Federal Reserve Board is designated as the umbrella regulator for financial holding companies, but financial holding company affiliates are principally regulated by functional regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank affiliates, the Securities and Exchange Commission for securities affiliates, and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. It repeals the broad exemption of banks from the definitions of &#8220;broker&#8221; and &#8220;dealer&#8221; for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. It also identifies a set of specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, in which a bank may engage without being deemed a &#8220;broker,&#8221; and a set of activities in which a bank may engage without being deemed a &#8220;dealer.&#8221; Additionally, the new law makes conforming changes in the definitions of &#8220;broker&#8221; and &#8220;dealer&#8221; for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. 

The GLBA contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, both at the inception of the customer relationship and on an annual basis, the institution&#8217;s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers&#8217; nonpublic personal financial information. The new law provides that, except for specific limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. An institution may not disclose to a non-affiliated third party, other than to a consumer reporting agency, customer account numbers or other similar account identifiers for marketing purposes. The GLBA also provides that the states may adopt customer privacy protections that are more strict than those contained in the act. 

Bank Secrecy Act . Under the Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), a financial institution is required to have systems in place to detect certain transactions, based on the size and nature of the transaction. Financial institutions are generally required to report cash transactions involving more than $10,000 to the United States Treasury. In addition, financial institutions are required to file suspicious activity reports for transactions that involve more than $5,000 and which the financial institution knows, suspects or has reason to suspect, involves illegal funds, is designed to evade the requirements of the BSA or has no lawful purpose. The USA PATRIOT Act, enacted in response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, requires bank regulators to consider a financial institution&#8217;s compliance with the BSA when reviewing applications from a financial institution. As part of its BSA program, the USA PATRIOT Act also requires a financial institution to follow recently implemented customer identification procedures when opening accounts for new customers and to review lists of individuals and entities who are prohibited from opening accounts at financial institutions. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 . The Sarbanes-Oxley Act represents a comprehensive revision of laws affecting corporate governance, accounting obligations and corporate reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act is applicable to all companies with equity securities registered or that file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act establishes: (i) new requirements for audit committees, including independence, expertise, and responsibilities; (ii) additional responsibilities regarding financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the reporting company; (iii) new standards for auditors and regulation of audits; (iv) increased disclosure and reporting obligations for the reporting company and its directors and executive officers; and (v) new and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of the securities laws. Many of the provisions were effective immediately while other provisions become effective over a period of time and are subject to rulemaking by the SEC. Because the Company&#8217;s common stock is registered with the SEC, it is currently subject to this Act. 

Future Regulatory Uncertainty . Because federal and state regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, the Company cannot forecast how federal and state regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and, as a result, impact our operations. The Company fully expects that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. 

Incentive Compensation. &#32;In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. Banking organizations are instructed to review their incentive compensation policies to ensure that they do not encourage excessive risk-taking and implement corrective programs as needed. The Federal Reserve Board will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Bank, that are not &#8220;large, complex banking organizations.&#8221; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. 

Dodd-Frank Act. &#32;In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, incorporating numerous financial institution regulatory reforms. The Dodd-Frank Act implements far-reaching reforms of major elements of the financial landscape, particularly for larger financial institutions. Many of its provisions do not directly impact community-based institutions like the Bank. For instance, provisions that regulate derivative transactions and limit derivatives trading activity of federally-insured institutions, enhance supervision of &#8220;systemically significant&#8221; institutions, impose new regulatory authority over hedge funds, limit proprietary trading by banks, and phase-out the eligibility of trust preferred securities for Tier 1 capital are among the provisions that do not directly impact the Bank either because of exemptions for institutions below a certain asset size or because of the nature of the Bank&#8217;s operations. Provisions that could impact the Bank include the following: 

&#8226; 

FDIC Assessments . The Dodd-Frank Act changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. In addition, it increases the minimum size of the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) and eliminates its ceiling, with the burden of the increase in the minimum size on institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. 

&#8226; 

Deposit Insurance. &#32;As scheduled, the unlimited insurance for noninterest bearing transaction accounts provided under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act expired on December 31, 2012. Deposits held in noninterest bearing transaction accounts are now aggregated with any interest bearing deposits the owner may hold in the same ownership category, and the combined total is insured up to at least $250,000. 

&#8226; 

Interest on Demand Deposits. &#32;The Dodd- Frank Act also provides that, effective one year after the date of enactment, depository institutions may pay interest on demand deposits, including business transaction and other accounts. 

&#8226; 

Interchange Fees. &#32;The Federal Reserve set a cap on debit card interchange fees charged to retailers. While banks with less than $10 billion in assets, such as the Bank, are exempted from this measure, it is likely that all banks could be forced by market pressures to lower their interchange fees or face potential rejection of their cards by retailers. 

&#8226; 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act centralizes responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, responsible for implementing federal consumer protection laws, although banks below $10 billion in assets will continue to be examined and supervised for compliance with these laws by their federal bank regulator. 

&#8226; 

Mortgage Lending. &#32;New requirements are imposed on mortgage lending, including new minimum underwriting standards, restrictions concerning loan originator compensation, qualifications of, and registration or licensing of loan originators, special consumer protections for mortgage loans that do not meet certain provision qualifications, prohibitions and limitations on certain mortgage terms and various new mandated disclosures to mortgage borrowers. 

&#8226; 

Holding Company Capital Levels. &#32;Bank regulators are required to establish minimum capital levels for holding companies that are at least as stringent as those currently applicable to banks. In addition, all trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 will be counted as Tier 2 capital, but the Company&#8217;s currently outstanding trust preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. 

&#8226; 

De Novo Interstate Branching. &#32;National and state banks are permitted to establish de novo interstate branches outside of their home state, and bank holding companies and banks must be well-capitalized and well managed in order to acquire banks located outside their home state. 

&#8226; 

Transactions with Affiliates. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act enhances the requirements for certain transactions with affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; and increasing the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be maintained. 

&#8226; 

Transactions with Insiders. &#32;Insider transaction limitations are expanded through the strengthening of loan restrictions to insiders and the expansion of the types of transactions subject to the various limits, including derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending or borrowing transactions. Restrictions are also placed on certain asset sales to and from an insider to an institution, including requirements that such sales be on market terms and, in certain circumstances, approved by the institution&#8217;s board of directors. 

&#8226; 

Corporate Governance. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act includes corporate governance revisions that apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions, including with regard to executive compensation and proxy access to shareholders. 

Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and interpretation and will take effect over several years, and their impact on the Company or the financial industry is difficult to predict before such regulations are adopted. 

&#160; Volcker Rule . The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits insured depository institutions and their holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prohibits them from owning equity interests in excess of 3% of Tier 1 capital in private equity and hedge funds (known as the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221;). On December 10, 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted final rules implementing the Volcker Rule. These final rules prohibit banking entities from (i) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for their own accounts, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. The final rules are intended to provide greater clarity with respect to both the extent of those primary prohibitions and of the related exemptions and exclusions. The final rules also require each regulated entity to establish an internal compliance program that is consistent with the extent to which it engages in activities covered by the Volcker Rule, which must include (for the largest entities) making regular reports about those activities to regulators. Although the final rules provide some tiering of compliance and reporting obligations based on size, the fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including the Company and the Subsidiary Banks. The final rules are effective April 1, 2014, but the conformance period has been extended from its statutory end date of July 21, 2014 until July 21, 2017. The Company has evaluated the implications of the final rules on its investments and does not expect any material financial implications. 

Under the final rules implementing the Volcker Rule, banking entities would have been prohibited from owning certain collateralized debt obligations (&#8220;CDOs&#8221;) backed by trust preferred securities (&#8220;TruPS&#8221;) as of July 21, 2017, which could have forced banking entities to recognize unrealized market losses based on the inability to hold any such investments to maturity. However, on January 14, 2014, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued an interim rule, effective April 1, 2014, exempting TruPS CDOs from the Volcker Rule if (i) the CDO was established prior to May 19, 2010, (ii) the banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds of the CDO were used to invest primarily in TruPS issued by banks with less than $15 billion in assets, and (iii) the banking entity acquired the CDO on or before December 10, 2013. However, regulators are soliciting comments to the Interim Rule, and this exemption could change prior to its effective date. The Company currently does not have any impermissible holdings of TruPS CDOs under the interim rule, and therefore, will not be required to divest of any such investments or change the accounting treatment. 

Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule. &#32;Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule on January 10, 2013 (effective on January 10, 2014), amending Regulation Z as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, requiring creditors to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Creditors are required to determine consumers&#8217; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the creditor to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (i) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (ii) current employment status; (iii) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (iv) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (v) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (vi) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (vii) the monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and (viii) credit history. Alternatively, the creditor can originate &#8220;qualified mortgages,&#8221; which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. Qualified mortgages that are &#8220;higher-priced&#8221; (e.g. subprime loans) garner a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay rules, while qualified mortgages that are not &#8220;higher-priced&#8221; (e.g. prime loans) are given a safe harbor of compliance. To meet the mortgage credit needs of a broader customer base, the Company is predominantly an originator of mortgages that are in compliance with the Ability-to-Pay rules. 

Integrated Mortgage Disclosures under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X) and the Truth In Lending Act (Regulation Z). Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule on November 20, 2013 (effective on October 3, 2015), combining certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing on a mortgage loan under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The Bureau amended Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) to establish new disclosure requirements and forms in Regulation Z for most closed-end consumer credit transactions secured by real property. In addition to combining the existing disclosure requirements and implementing new requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, the final rule provides extensive guidance regarding compliance with those requirements. The final rule applies to most closed-end consumer mortgages. It does not apply to home equity lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or mortgages secured by a mobile home or by a dwelling that is not attached to real property (in other words, land). The final rule also does not apply to loans made by a creditor who makes five or fewer mortgages in a year. 

Flood Insurance Rule. &#32;&#32;&#32;On July 21, 2015, five federal regulatory agencies announced the approval of a joint final rule that modifies regulations that apply to loans secured by properties located in special flood hazard areas. The final rule implements provisions of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 relating to the escrowing of flood insurance payments and the exemption of certain detached structures from the mandatory flood insurance purchase requirement. The final rule also implements provisions in the Biggert-Waters Act relating to the force placement of flood insurance. 

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) Final Rule. &#32;On October 15, 2015, the CFPB issued the final rule aimed at increasing the &#8220;quality and type&#8221; of HMDA data collected and reported by financial institutions. The final HMDA rule will expand the types of loans subject to reporting and increase the number of data fields. Lenders will have to collect and report additional information on applicants and borrowers, property used to secure loans, loan features and unique identifiers. The rule adds 25 new data points and amends 14 existing data points. 

The most significant changes are not effective until January 1, 2018. On or before March 1, 2019, lenders will report the new data they collect in 2018. 

