 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

In this report, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "us," the "Company," "Eagle," and "our" refer to Eagle Bancorp, Inc. and our subsidiaries on a combined basis, except in the description of any of our securities, in which case these terms refer solely to Eagle Bancorp, Inc. and not to any of our subsidiaries. References to "EagleBank" or "Bank" refer to EagleBank, which is our principal subsidiary. 

Eagle Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), headquartered in Bethesda, Maryland, was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maryland on October 28, 1997, to serve as the bank holding company for EagleBank (the "Bank"). The Company was formed by a group of local businessmen and professionals with significant prior experience in community banking in the Company's market area, together with an experienced community bank senior management team. The Company has one direct non-banking subsidiary, Eagle Commercial Ventures, LLC ("ECV"), which provides subordinated financing for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate projects. 

The Bank, a Maryland chartered commercial bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, is the Company's principal operating subsidiary. It commenced banking operations on July 20, 1998. The Bank operates twenty one banking offices: seven in Montgomery County, Maryland; five located in the District of Columbia; and nine in Northern Virginia. Refer to Properties on page 32 for a listing of banking offices. The Bank may seek additional banking offices consistent with its strategic plan, although there can be no assurance that the Bank will establish any additional offices, or that any branch office will prove to be profitable. 

The Bank has two active direct subsidiaries: Bethesda Leasing, LLC and Eagle Insurance Services, LLC. Bethesda Leasing, LLC holds title to and operates real estate owned and acquired through foreclosure. Eagle Insurance Services, LLC facilitates the placement of commercial and retail insurance products through a referral arrangement with The Meltzer Group, a large well known insurance brokerage within the Company's market area. 

The Bank operates as a community bank alternative to the super-regional financial institutions, which dominate its primary market area. The cornerstone of the Bank's philosophy is to provide superior, personalized service to its clients. The Bank focuses on relationship banking, providing each client with a number of services, familiarizing itself with, and addressing itself to, client needs in a proactive, personalized fashion. Management believes that the Bank's target market segments, small and medium-sized for profit and non-profit businesses and the consumer base working or living in and near the Bank's market area, demand the convenience and personal service that an independent locally based financial institution such as the Bank can offer. It is these themes of convenience and proactive personal service that form the basis for the Bank's business development strategies. 

The acquisition of Virginia Heritage Bank ("Virginia Heritage") completed on October 31, 2014, added approximately $800 million in loans, $3 million in loans held for sale, $645 million in deposits, and $95 million in borrowings. Identified intangibles related to core deposits were recorded for $4.6 million, which is being amortized over its estimated useful life through 2020 and an initial intangible for goodwill was recorded for approximately $102.3 million. Additionally, in connection with the transaction, the Company recorded a fair value credit mark on the loan portfolio for approximately $12.5 million. The income and expenses of Virginia Heritage are included in the consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014, starting with the two month period subsequent to the acquisition. 

Description of Services. The Bank offers a full range of commercial banking services to its business and professional clients, as well as complete consumer banking services to individuals living or working in the service area. The Bank emphasizes providing commercial banking services to sole proprietorships, small and medium-sized businesses, partnerships, corporations, non-profit organizations and associations, 

and investors living and working in and near the Bank's primary service area. A full range of retail banking services are offered to accommodate the individual needs of both corporate customers as well as the community the Bank serves. The Bank also offers online banking, mobile banking and a remote deposit service, which allows clients to facilitate and expedite deposit transactions through the use of electronic devices. 

The Bank provides a variety of commercial and consumer lending products to small, medium and large-sized businesses and to individuals for various business and personal purposes, including (i) commercial loans for a variety of business purposes such as for working capital, equipment purchases, real estate lines of credit, and government contract financing; (ii) asset based lending and accounts receivable financing (on a limited basis); (iii) construction and commercial real estate loans; (iv) business equipment financing; (v) consumer home equity lines of credit, personal lines of credit and term loans; (vi) consumer installment loans such as auto and personal loans; (vii) personal credit cards offered through an outside vendor; and (viii) residential mortgage loans. 

The Bank maintains a loan portfolio consisting primarily of traditional business and real estate secured loans, with a substantial portion having variable and adjustable rates, and where the cash flow of the borrower/borrower's business is the principal source of debt service with a secondary emphasis on collateral. Real estate loans are made generally for commercial purposes and are structured using both variable and fixed rates and renegotiable rates which adjust in three to five years, with maturities of five to ten years. 

The Bank's consumer loans portfolio is comprised generally of two loan types: (i) home equity lines of credit that are structured with an interest only draw period followed either by a balloon maturity or a fully amortized repayment schedule; and (ii) first lien residential mortgage loans, although the Bank's general practice is to sell conforming first trust loans on a servicing released basis to third party investors. 

The Bank has also developed significant expertise and commitment as a Small Business Administration ("SBA") lender and has been recognized as a top originator of such loans in our market area. 

The Bank is an approved SBA lender. As a preferred lender under the SBA's Preferred Lender Program, the Bank can originate certain SBA loans in-house without prior SBA approval. SBA loans are made through programs designed by the federal government to assist the small business community in obtaining financing from financial institutions that are given government guarantees as an incentive to make the loans. Under certain circumstances, the Bank attempts to further mitigate commercial term loan losses by using loan guarantee programs offered by the SBA. SBA lending is subject to federal legislation that can affect the availability and funding of the program. From time to time, this dependence on legislative funding causes limitations and uncertainties with regard to the continued funding of such programs, which could potentially have an adverse financial impact on our business. 

The direct lending activities in which the Bank engages carry the risk that the borrowers will be unable to perform on their obligations. As such, interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board" or the "Federal Reserve") and general economic conditions, nationally and in the Bank's primary market area, could have a significant impact on the Bank's and the Company's results of operations. To the extent that economic conditions deteriorate, business and individual borrowers may be less able to meet their obligations to the Bank in full, in a timely manner, resulting in decreased earnings or losses to the Bank. To the extent the Bank makes fixed rate loans or variable rate loans with fixed rate floors, general increases in interest rates will tend to reduce the Bank's spread as the interest rates the Bank must pay for deposits may increase while interest income may be unchanged. Economic conditions may also adversely affect the value of property pledged as security for loans. 

The Bank's goal is to mitigate risks in the event of unforeseen threats to the loan portfolio as a result of economic downturn or other negative influences. Plans for mitigating inherent risks in managing loan assets include: carefully enforcing loan policies and procedures, evaluating each borrower's business plan during the underwriting process and throughout the loan term, identifying and monitoring primary and alternative sources for loan repayment, and obtaining collateral to mitigate economic loss in the event of liquidation. Specific loan reserves are established based upon credit and/or collateral risks on an individual loan basis. A risk rating system is employed to proactively estimate loss exposure and provide a measuring system for setting general and specific reserve allocations. 

The composition of the Bank's loan portfolio is heavily weighted toward commercial real estate, both owner occupied and income producing real estate. At December 31, 2015, owner occupied commercial real estate and owner occupied commercial real estate construction represent 12% of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2015, non-owner occupied commercial real estate and real estate construction represented approximately 62% of the loan portfolio. The combined owner occupied and commercial real estate loans represent 74% of the loan portfolio. These loans are underwritten to mitigate lending risks typical of this type of loan such as declines in real estate values, changes in borrower cash flow and general economic conditions. The Bank typically requires a maximum loan to value of 80% and minimum cash flow debt service coverage of 1.15 to 1.0. Personal guarantees are generally required, but may be limited. In making real estate commercial mortgage loans, the Bank generally requires that interest rates adjust not less frequently than five years. 

The Bank is also an active traditional commercial lender providing loans for a variety of purposes, including cash flow, equipment, and account receivable financing. This loan category represents approximately 21% of the Bank's loan portfolio at December 31, 2015 and is generally variable or adjustable rate. Commercial loans meet reasonable underwriting standards, including appropriate collateral, and cash flow necessary to support debt service. Personal guarantees are generally required, but may be limited. SBA loans represent approximately 1% of commercial loans. In originating SBA loans, the Bank assumes the risk of non-payment on the uninsured portion of the credit. The Bank generally sells the insured portion of the loan generating noninterest income from the gains on sale, as well as servicing income on the portion participated. SBA loans are subject to the same cash flow analyses as other commercial loans. SBA loans are subject to a maximum loan size established by the SBA. 

Approximately 2% of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2015 consists of home equity loans and lines of credit and other consumer loans. These credits, while making up a smaller portion of the loan portfolio, demand the same emphasis on underwriting and credit evaluation as other types of loans advanced by the Bank. 

Approximately 3% of the total loan portfolio consists of residential home mortgage loans. These credits represent first liens on residential property loans originated by the Bank. While the Bank's general practice is to originate and sell (servicing released) loans made by its Residential Lending department, from time to time certain loan characteristics do not meet the requirements of third party investors and these loans are instead maintained in the Bank's portfolio until they are resold to another investor at a later date. 

Our lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by state and federal law. These limits will increase or decrease in response to increases or decreases in the Bank's level of capital. At January 31, 2016, the Bank had a legal lending limit of $116 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the average Commercial Real Estate (CRE) and Commercial and Industrial (C&#38;I) loan balance was $2.2 million and $687 thousand, respectively. In accordance with internal lending policies, the Bank occasionally sells participations in its loans to other area banks, which allows the Bank to manage risk involved in these loans and to meet the lending needs of its clients. 

From time to time the Company may make loans for its own portfolio or through its higher risk loan affiliate, ECV, which under its operating agreement conducts lending only to real estate projects. Such 

loans may have higher risk characteristics than loans made by the Bank, such as lower priority security interests and/or higher loan to value ratios. The Company seeks an overall financial return on these transactions commensurate with the risks and structure of each individual loan. Certain transactions bear current interest at a rate with a significant premium to normal market rates. Other loan transactions carry a standard rate of current interest, but also earn additional interest based on a fixed rate or a percentage of the profits of the underlying project. Refer to the discussion under the caption "Noninterest Income" at page 49 and "Loan Portfolio" at page 53, for further information on the Company's and ECV's higher risk lending activities. At December 31, 2015, ECV had four outstanding loan transactions totaling $9.2 million. 

The risk of nonpayment (or deferred payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. The Bank's marketing focus on small to medium-sized businesses may result in the assumption by the Bank of certain lending risks that are different from those attendant to loans to larger companies. Management and/or committees of the Bank carefully evaluate loan applications and attempt to minimize credit risk exposure by use of extensive loan application data, due diligence, and approval and monitoring procedures; however, there can be no assurance that such procedures can significantly reduce such lending risks. 

The Bank originates residential mortgage loans primarily as a correspondent lender. Activity in the residential mortgage loan market is highly sensitive to changes in interest rates and product availability. While the Bank does have delegated underwriting authority from most of its investors, it also employs the services of the investor to underwrite the loans. Because the loans are originated within investor guidelines and designated automated underwriting and product specific requirements as part of the loan application, the loans sold have a limited recourse provision. Most contracts with investors contain recourse periods. In general, the Bank may be required to repurchase a previously sold mortgage loan or indemnify the investor if there is non-compliance with defined loan origination or documentation standards, including fraud, negligence or material misstatement in the loan documents. In addition, the Bank may have an obligation to repurchase a loan if the mortgagor has defaulted early in the loan term. The potential default repurchase period varies by investor but can be up to approximately twelve months after sale of the loan to the investor. Mortgages subject to recourse are collateralized by single-family residential properties, have loan-to-value ratios of 80% or less, or have private mortgage insurance. In certain instances, the Bank may provide equity loans (second position financing) in combination with residential first mortgage lending for purchase money and refinancing purposes. 

The Bank enters into commitments to originate residential mortgage loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding (i.e. rate lock commitments). Such rate lock commitments on mortgage loans to be sold in the secondary market are considered to be derivatives. To protect against the price risk inherent in residential mortgage loan commitments, the Bank utilizes both "best efforts" and "mandatory delivery" forward loan sale commitments to mitigate the risk of potential decrease in the values of loans that would result from the exercise of the derivative loan commitments. Under a "best efforts" contract, the Bank commits to deliver an individual mortgage loan of a specified principal amount and quality to an investor and the investor commits to a price that it will purchase the loan from the Bank if the loan to the underlying borrower closes. The Bank protects itself from changes in interest rates through the use of best efforts forward delivery commitments, whereby the investor commits to purchase a loan at a price representing a premium on the day the borrower commits to an interest rate with the intent that the buyer/investor has assumed the interest rate risk on the loan. As a result, the Bank is not generally exposed to losses on loans sold utilizing best efforts, nor will it realize gains related to rate lock commitments due to changes in interest rates. The market values of rate lock commitments and best efforts contracts are not readily ascertainable with precision because rate lock commitments and best efforts contracts are not actively traded. Because of the high correlation between rate lock commitments and best efforts contracts, no gain or loss should occur on the rate lock commitments. Under a "mandatory delivery" contract, the Bank commits to deliver a certain principal amount of mortgage loans to an investor at a specified price on or before a specified date. If the Bank fails to deliver the amount of mortgages 

necessary to fulfill the commitment by the specified date, it is obligated to pay the investor a "pair-off" fee, based on then-current market prices, to compensate the investor for the shortfall. The rate lock commitments on mortgage loans to be sold in the secondary market are considered to be derivatives. The Bank manages the interest rate risk on rate lock commitments by entering into forward sale contracts of mortgage backed securities, whereby the Bank obtains the right to deliver securities to investors in the future at a specified price. Such contracts are accounted for as derivatives and are recorded at fair value in derivative assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value recorded in other income. The period of time between issuance of a loan commitment to the customer and closing and sale of the loan to an investor generally ranges from 30 to 90 days under current market conditions. 

The general terms and underwriting standards for each type of commercial real estate and construction loan are incorporated into the Bank's lending policies. These policies are analyzed periodically by management, and the policies are reviewed and approved by the Board. The Bank's loan policies and practices described in this report are subject to periodic change, and each guideline or standard is subject to waiver or exception in the case of any particular loan, by the appropriate officer or committee, in accordance with the Bank's loan policies. Policy standards are often stated in mandatory terms, such as "shall" or "must", but these provisions are subject to exceptions. Policy requires that loan value not exceed a percentage of "market value" or "fair value" based upon appraisals or evaluations obtained in the ordinary course of the Bank's underwriting practices. 

Loans are secured primarily by duly recorded first deeds of trust. In some cases, the Bank may accept a recorded junior trust position. In general, borrowers will have a proven ability to build, lease, manage and/or sell a commercial or residential project and demonstrate satisfactory financial condition. Additionally, an equity contribution toward the project is required. 

Construction loans require that the financial condition and experience of the general contractor and major subcontractors be satisfactory to the Bank. Guaranteed, fixed price construction contracts are required whenever appropriate, along with payment and performance bonds or completion bonds for certain larger scale projects. 

Loans intended for residential land acquisition, lot development and construction are made on the premise that the land: (1) is or will be developed for building sites for residential structures; and (2) will ultimately be utilized for construction or improvement of residential zoned real properties, including the creation of housing. Residential development and construction loans will finance projects such as single family subdivisions, planned unit developments, townhouses, and condominiums. Residential land acquisition, development and construction loans generally are underwritten with a maximum term of 36 months, including extensions approved at origination. 

Commercial land acquisition and construction loans are secured by real property where loan funds will be used to acquire land and to construct or improve appropriately zoned real property for the creation of income producing or owner user commercial properties. Borrowers are required to contribute equity into each project at levels determined by the appropriate Loan Committee. Commercial land acquisition and construction loans generally are underwritten with a maximum term of 24 months. 

Loan-to-value ("LTV") ratios, with few exceptions, are maintained consistent with or below supervisory guidelines. 

Construction draw requests generally must be presented in writing on American Institute of Architects documents and certified by the contractor, the borrower and the borrower's architect. Each draw request shall also include the borrower's soft cost breakdown certified by the borrower or its Chief Financial Officer. Prior to an advance, the Bank or its contractor inspects the project to determine that the work has been completed, to justify the draw requisition. 

Commercial permanent loans are secured by improved real property, which is generating income in the normal course of operation. Debt service coverage, assuming stabilized occupancy, must be satisfactory 

to support a permanent loan. The debt service coverage ratio is ordinarily at least 1.15 to 1. As part of the underwriting process, debt service coverage ratios are stress tested assuming a 200 basis point increase in interest rates from their current levels. 

Commercial permanent loans are generally subject to re-pricing after 5 years and are underwritten with a term not greater than 10 years or the remaining useful life of the property, whichever is lower. The amortization term of such loans is generally a maximum of 25 years. 

Personal guarantees are generally received from the principals on commercial real estate loans, and only in instances where the loan-to-value is sufficiently low and the debt service is sufficiently high is consideration given to either limiting or not requiring personal recourse. 

Updated appraisals for real estate secured loans are obtained as necessary and appropriate to borrower financial condition, project status, loan terms, and market conditions. 

The Company's loan portfolio includes loans made for real estate Acquisition, Development and Construction ("ADC") purposes, including both income producing and owner occupied projects. ADC loans amounted to $1.07 billion at December 31, 2015. The ADC loans containing loan funded interest reserves represent approximately 49% (by dollars) of the outstanding ADC loan portfolio at December 31, 2015. The decision to establish a loan funded interest reserve is made upon origination of the ADC loan and is based upon a number of factors considered during underwriting of the credit including: (i) the feasibility of the project; (ii) the experience of the sponsor; (iii) the creditworthiness of the borrower and guarantors; (iv) borrower equity contribution; and (v) the level of collateral protection. When appropriate, an interest reserve provides an effective means of addressing the cash flow characteristics of a properly underwritten ADC loan. The Company does not significantly utilize interest reserves in other loan products. The Company recognizes that one of the risks inherent in the use of interest reserves is the potential masking of underlying problems with the project and/or the borrower's ability to repay the loan. In order to mitigate this inherent risk, the Company employs a series of reporting and monitoring mechanisms on all ADC loans, whether or not an interest reserve is provided, including: (i) construction and development timelines which are monitored on an ongoing basis which track the progress of a given project to the timeline projected at origination; (ii) a construction loan administration department independent of the lending function; (iii) third party independent construction loan inspection reports; (iv) monthly interest reserve monitoring reports detailing the balance of the interest reserves approved at origination and the days of interest carry represented by the reserve balances as compared to the then current anticipated time to completion and/or sale of speculative projects; and (v) quarterly commercial real estate construction meetings among senior Company management which includes monitoring of current and projected real estate market conditions. If a project has not performed as expected, it is not the customary practice of the Company to increase loan funded interest reserves. 

Despite the less than robust economic recovery, the Company has not experienced any significant issues with increased vacancy rates or lower rents for income producing properties financed. The construction loan portfolio has remained solid, particularly in areas of well-located residential and multifamily projects, as the housing market has continued to improve and stabilize. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area real estate market has been relatively stable; however, certain segments, including suburban offices, have exhibited higher than normal vacancy and experienced concessions in specific submarkets. The impact of disruptions in government spending patterns, (i.e. sequestration, program cuts or terminations, leasing activity, and changes in geographic distribution of government spending) while within manageable levels to date, remains of concern. As a result, the Company has maintained somewhat higher than pre-recession environmental allocation factors for the allowance for loan and lease losses ("ALLL") for the real estate loan portfolio. As part of its overall risk assessments, management carefully reviews the Bank's loan portfolio and general economic and market conditions on a regular basis and will continue to adjust both the specific and environmental reserve factors as necessary. 

Deposit services include business and personal checking accounts, NOW accounts, tiered savings and money market account and time deposits with varying maturity structures and customer options. A complete individual retirement account program is available. The Bank also participates in the Promontory Interfinancial Network, LLC ("Promontory") Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service ("CDARS") and its Insured Cash Sweep ("ICS") program, both of which networks function to assure full FDIC insurance for participating Bank customers. In cooperation with Goldman Sachs Asset Management, the Bank offers a Goldman Sachs Investment Sweep Account, a check writing cash management account that sweeps funds to one of several non-FDIC insured off-balance sheet investment accounts managed by Goldman Sachs. 

The Bank offers a full range of on-line banking services for both personal and business accounts and has a Mobile Banking application for both businesses and individuals. Other services include cash management services, business sweep accounts, lock box, remote deposit capture, account reconciliation services, merchant card services, safety deposit boxes and Automated Clearing House origination. After-hours depositories and ATM service are also available. 

The Bank and Company maintain portfolios of short term investments and investment securities consisting primarily of U.S. agency bonds and government sponsored enterprise mortgage backed securities, municipal bonds, and corporate bonds. The Bank also owns equity investments related to membership in the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB"). The Bank's securities portfolio also consists of equity investments in the form of common stock of two local banking companies. These portfolios provide the following objectives: liquidity management, additional income to the Company and Bank in the form of interest and gain on sale opportunities, collateral to facilitate borrowing arrangements and assistance with meeting interest rate risk management objectives. The current Investment Policy limits the Bank to investments of high quality, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities and high grade municipal and corporate securities. High risk investments and non-traditional investments are prohibited. Investment maturities are generally limited to ten to fifteen years, except as specifically approved by the Asset Liability Committee ("ALCO"), and mortgage backed pass through securities with average lives generally not to exceed eight years. 

The Company and Bank have formalized an asset and liability management process and have a standing ALCO consisting both of outside and inside directors and senior management. The ALCO operates under established policies and practices, which are updated and re-approved annually. A typical ALCO meeting includes discussion of current economic conditions and strategies, including interest rate trends and, the current balance sheet and earnings position, comparisons to budget, cash flow estimates, liquidity positions and funding alternatives as necessary, interest rate risk position (quarterly), capital positions of the Company and Bank, reviews (including independent reviews) of the investment portfolio of the Bank and the Company, and the approval of investment transactions. Additionally, monthly ALCO meetings may include reports and analysis of outside firms to enhance the Committee's knowledge and understanding of various financial matters. 

The development of the Company's customer base has benefited from the extensive business and personal contacts of its directors and executive officers. The Bank has placed enhanced reliance on proactively designed officer calling programs, active participation in business organizations, and enhanced referral programs. 

Internet Access to Company Documents. The Company provides access to its Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings through its web site at www.eaglebankcorp.com. After accessing the web site, the filings are available upon selecting "Investor Relations/SEC Filings/Documents." Reports available include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

MARKET AREA AND COMPETITION 

The primary service area of the Bank is the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. With a population of nearly 6,600,000, the region is the 5 th largest market in the U.S. Total employment in the region is approximately 2,600,000. The region has one of the highest total job creation records of any market in the country with reported new job creation of more than 355,800 jobs since 2005 and 68,500 new jobs created in 2015. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area contains a substantial federal workforce, as well as supporting a variety of support industries such as attorneys, lobbyists, government contractors, real estate developers and investors, non-profit organizations, tourism and consultants. The Gross Regional Product ("GRP") for the metropolitan area in 2014 was reported at $449 billion. Of this amount, approximately $104 billion or 30% is associated with spending by the government. Other significant sectors include professional and business services, education, health, leisure and hospitality. The region also has a very active non-profit sector including trade associations, colleges, universities and major hospitals. 

Montgomery County, Maryland, with a total population estimated at 1,030,447 as of July 2014 and occupying an area of about 500 square miles, borders Washington, D.C. to the north and is roughly 30 miles southwest of Baltimore. Montgomery County represents a diverse and healthy segment of Maryland's economy. Montgomery County is a thriving business center and is Maryland's most populous jurisdiction. Population in the county is expected to grow 4.9% between 2015 and 2020. While the state of Maryland boasts a demographic profile superior to the U.S. economy at large, the economy in and around Montgomery County is among the best in Maryland. The number of jobs in Montgomery County has been relatively stable in the recent past with the public sector contributing about 20% of the employment. The unemployment rate in Montgomery County is among the lowest in the state at 3.9% as of November 2015. A highly educated population has contributed to favorable median household income of $98,704 with the number of households totaling 362,608. According to the U.S. census update, approximately 57% of the County's residents in 2014 hold college or advanced degrees, placing the population of Montgomery County among the most educated in the nation. The area boasts a diverse business climate of over 26,000 businesses with 460,000 private sector jobs in addition to a strong federal government presence. Major areas of employment include a substantial technology sector, biotechnology, software development, a housing construction and renovation sector, and legal, financial services, health care, and professional services sectors. Major private employers include Adventist Healthcare, Lockheed Martin, Giant Food, and Marriott International. The county is also an incubator for firms engaged in biotechnology and the area has traditionally attracted significant amounts of venture capital. Montgomery County is home to many major federal and private sector research and development and regulatory agencies, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the National Institutes of Health, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Naval Research and Development Center, Naval Surface Warfare Center, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda. 

Transportation congestion and federal government spending levels remain threats to future economic development and the quality of life in the area. 

The District of Columbia, in addition to being the seat of the federal government, is a vibrant city with a well-educated, diverse population. According to survey data from the latest U.S. Census, the estimated July 2014 population of the District of Columbia is approximately 658,893, up from 601,767 in 2010. Median household income, at $69,235 as of 2014, is above the national median level of $53,482. The growth of residents in the city is due partially to improvements in the city's services and to the many housing options available, ranging from grand old apartment buildings to Federal era town homes to the most modern condominiums. As of July 2014, the housing market has grown to over 306,174 units. As of December 2015, inventory levels remain tight in the District of Columbia with levels remaining 10% below the five year December average. While the federal government and its employees are a major factor in the economy, over 100 million square feet of commercial office space support a dynamic business community of more than 21,000 companies. These include law and accounting firms, trade and professional 

associations, information technology companies, international financial institutions, health and education organizations and research and management companies. Unemployment has decreased with the rate for December 2015 at 6.6%, which is down from 7.7% in December 2014. The disparity between the high level of unemployment among District of Columbia residents and the strong employment trends reflects the high level of jobs held by residents of the surrounding suburban jurisdictions. The District of Columbia has a well-educated and highly paid work force. The federal government accounts for approximately 27% of the employment and private firms provide an additional 68% with local and state government making up the other 5%. Other large employers include the many local universities and hospitals. Another significant factor in the economy is the leisure and hospitality industry, as Washington, D.C. remains a popular tourist destination for both national and international travelers. 

As a result of the October 31, 2014 merger with Virginia Heritage Bank (the "Merger"), the Bank substantially increased its market presence in Northern Virginia. Fairfax County, Virginia which is just across the Potomac River and west from Washington, D.C. is a large, affluent jurisdiction with an estimated population of 1,137,538 as of July 2014. This county covers about 395 square miles. Fairfax County is one of the leading technology centers in the United States. Eight Fortune 500 companies are headquartered in the county and 30 of the largest 100 technology federal contractors in the Washington D.C. metropolitan area are located in Fairfax County. The county has over 116.5 million square feet of office space and is one of the largest suburban office markets in the United States. The midyear 2013 office vacancy rate was 15.2%, below the national average of 16.5%, as measured in third quarter 2015. It is a thriving residential as well as business center with 410,287 households, which is expected to grow at about 8.5% between 2010 and 2020. The county is among the most affluent in the country with average annual household income of $112,102 per annum as of 2014. Total employment was over 593 thousand as of June 2015. Major companies headquartered in the county, which are also major employers, include Capital One Financial, CSC, Gannett, General Dynamics, Hilton Hotels, Leidos, Sallie Mae, and Inova Health Systems. The county is also home to several federal entities including the CIA, Fort Belvoir and a major facility of the Smithsonian Institution. 

In 2011, the Bank's footprint expanded into Arlington County, Virginia, which has an estimated population of over 226,000 as of July 2014. The county is made up of 26 square miles and is situated just west of Washington, D.C., directly across the Potomac River. There are approximately 110,601 households with an estimated median household income of $105,120 as of July 2014. There were over 169,387 employees as of January 2016, working predominantly in or in support of the public sector. Significant private sector employers include Deloitte, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Virginia Hospital Center and Marriott International, Inc. The unemployment rate was just 2.4% as of December 2015. This is the lowest unemployment rate in the state of Virginia and compares very favorably to the U.S. rate of 5.0%. The population is highly educated, with about 72% of residents over 25 years of age holding at least a bachelor's degree as of 2014. 

In early 2013, the Bank added a branch in Alexandria, Virginia to its network. Alexandria is a city with an estimated population of 150,575 as of July 2014. The city is made up of just over 15 square miles and sits on the west bank of the Potomac River just south of Arlington, Virginia. There are approximately 75,329 households with an estimated median household income of $87,319 as of July 2014. The employment base was approximately 95,900 employees as of December 2015, with 76% working in the private sector and 24% working in government roles. Alexandria has over 8,000 businesses and organizations, located in the more than 20 million square feet of office space and over 7 million square feet of retail space existing in the city as of March 2013. The unemployment rate was just 2.7% as of December 2015. The population is highly educated, with over 61.5% of residents over 25 years of age holding at least a bachelor's degree as of 2014. 

Throughout the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, competition is keen from large banking institutions headquartered outside of the area. Although some consolidation has occurred in the market in the past few years, the Bank continues to compete with other community banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, finance companies and others providing financial services. Among the advantages that many of these large institutions have over the Bank are their abilities to finance extensive advertising campaigns, maintain extensive branch networks and make technology investments, and to directly offer certain services, such as international banking and trust services, which are not offered directly by the Bank. Further, the greater capitalization of the larger institutions headquartered out-of-state allows for higher lending limits than the Bank, although the Bank's current lending limit is quite favorable and able to accommodate the credit needs of most businesses in the Washington D.C. metropolitan area, which distinguishes it from most community banks in the market area. Some of these competitors have other advantages, such as tax exemption in the case of credit unions, and to some extent lesser regulation in the case of mortgage companies and finance companies, although this regulatory oversight has undergone dramatic change. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), enacted in July 2010, regulation of all financial firms has been heightened. Under current law, unlimited interstate de novo branching is available to all state and federally chartered banks. As a result, institutions, which previously were ineligible to establish de novo branches in the Bank's market area, may elect to do so. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015 the Bank employed 434 persons on a full time basis (eight of whom are executive officers of the Bank), which compares to 427 employees at December 31, 2014. None of the Bank's employees are represented by any collective bargaining group and the Bank believes that its employee relations are good. At December 31, 2015, the Bank provided a benefit program, which included health and dental insurance, a 401(k) plan, life and short and long term disability insurance. During 2015, the Bank provided company paid fitness facilities in various locations. Additionally, the Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan and a stock-based compensation plan for employees of the Bank who meet certain eligibility requirements. 

REGULATION 

Our business and operations are subject to extensive federal and state governmental regulation and supervision. The following is a brief summary of certain statutes and rules and regulations that affect or will affect us. This summary is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the statutes or regulations applicable to our business. Supervision, regulation, and examination of the Company by the regulatory agencies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than our shareholders. 

The Company. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, (the "Act") and is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Act and other federal laws subject bank holding companies to restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe and unsound banking practices. As a bank holding company, the Company is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board an annual report and such other additional information as the Federal Reserve Board may require pursuant to the Act. The Federal Reserve Board may also examine the Company and each of its subsidiaries. The Company is subject to risk-based capital requirements adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, which are substantially identical to those applicable to the Bank, and which are described below. 

The Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve Board for, among other things, a bank holding company's direct or indirect acquisition of control of more than five percent (5%) of the voting shares, or 

substantially all the assets, of any bank or the merger or consolidation by a bank holding company with another bank holding company. The Act also generally permits the acquisition by a bank holding company of control or substantially all the assets of any bank located in a state other than the home state of the bank holding company, except where the bank has not been in existence for the minimum period of time required by state law; but if the bank is at least 5 years old, the Federal Reserve Board may approve the acquisition. 

With certain limited exceptions, a bank holding company is prohibited from acquiring control of any voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in any activity other than banking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or performing service for its authorized subsidiaries. A bank holding company may, however, engage in or acquire an interest in, a company that engages in activities which the Federal Reserve Board has determined by order or regulation to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be properly incident thereto. In making such a determination, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider whether the performance of such activities can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency, which outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. The Federal Reserve Board is also empowered to differentiate between activities commenced de novo and activities commenced by the acquisition, in whole or in part, of a going concern. Some of the activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined by regulation to be closely related to banking include making or servicing loans, performing certain data processing services, acting as a fiduciary or investment or financial advisor, and making investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare. 

Subsidiary banks of a bank holding company are subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on any extensions of credit to the bank holding company or any of its subsidiaries, or investments in the stock or other securities thereof, and on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower. Further, a bank holding company and any subsidiary bank are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with the extension of credit. A subsidiary bank may not extend credit, lease or sell property, or furnish any services, or fix or vary the consideration for any of the foregoing on the condition that: (i) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property or services from or to such bank other than a loan, discount, deposit or trust service; (ii) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property or service from or to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company; or (iii) the customer not obtain some other credit, property or service from competitors, except for reasonable requirements to assure the soundness of credit extended. 

The Gramm Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the "GLB Act") allows a bank holding company or other company to certify status as a financial holding company, which allows such company to engage in activities that are financial in nature, that are incidental to such activities, or are complementary to such activities. The GLB Act enumerates certain activities that are deemed financial in nature, such as underwriting insurance or acting as an insurance principal, agent or broker, underwriting, dealing in or making markets in securities, and engaging in merchant banking under certain restrictions. It also authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to determine by regulation what other activities are financial in nature, or incidental or complementary thereto. The GLB Act allows a wider array of companies to own banks, which could result in companies with resources substantially in excess of the Company's entering into competition with the Company and the Bank. The Company has not elected financial holding company status. 

The Bank. The Bank is a Maryland chartered commercial bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System (a "state member bank") whose accounts are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") up to the maximum legal limits of the FDIC. The Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the Maryland Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve Board. The regulations of these various agencies govern 

most aspects of the Bank's business, including required reserves against deposits, loans, investments, mergers and acquisitions, borrowing, dividends and location and number of branch offices. 

The laws and regulations governing the Bank generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, and not for the purpose of protecting shareholders. 

Competition among commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions has increased following enactment of legislation, which greatly expanded the ability of banks and bank holding companies to engage in interstate banking or acquisition activities. As a result of federal and state legislation, banks in the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan area can, subject to limited restrictions, acquire or merge with a bank in another jurisdiction, and can branch de novo in any jurisdiction. 

Banking is a business, which depends on interest rate differentials. In general, the differences between the interest paid by a bank on its deposits and its other borrowings and the interest received by a bank on loans extended to its customers and securities held in its investment portfolio constitute the major portion of the bank's earnings. Thus, the earnings and growth of the Bank will be subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money through various means including open market dealings in United States government securities. The nature and timing of changes in such policies and their impact on the Bank cannot be predicted. 

Branching and Interstate Banking. The federal banking agencies are authorized to approve interstate bank merger transactions without regard to whether such transaction is prohibited by the law of any state, unless the home state of one of the banks has opted out of the interstate bank merger provisions of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Riegle-Neal Act") by adopting a law after the date of enactment of the Riegle-Neal Act and prior to June 1, 1997 which applies equally to all out-of-state banks and expressly prohibits merger transactions involving out-of-state banks. Interstate acquisitions of branches are permitted only if the law of the state in which the branch is located permits such acquisitions. Such interstate bank mergers and branch acquisitions are also subject to the nationwide and statewide insured deposit concentration limitations described in the Riegle-Neal Act. Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia have each enacted laws, which permit interstate acquisitions of banks and bank branches. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes national and state banks to establish de novo branches in other states to the same extent as a bank chartered by that state would be permitted to branch. Previously, banks could only establish branches in other states if the host state expressly permitted out-of-state banks to establish branches in that state. Although the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia had all enacted laws, which permitted banks in these jurisdictions to branch freely, the branching provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could result in banks from a wider variety of states establishing de novo branches in the Bank's market area. 

The GLB Act made substantial changes in the historic restrictions on non-bank activities of bank holding companies, and allows affiliations between types of companies that were previously prohibited. The GLB Act also allows banks to engage in a wider array of nonbanking activities through "financial subsidiaries." 

USA Patriot Act. Under the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly referred to as the "USA Patriot Act" or the "Patriot Act," financial institutions are subject to prohibitions against specified financial transactions and account relationships, as well as enhanced due diligence standards intended to detect, and prevent, the use of the United States financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing activities. The Patriot Act requires financial institutions, including banks, to establish anti-money laundering programs, including employee training and independent audit requirements, meet minimum standards specified by the act, follow minimum standards for customer identification and maintenance of customer identification records, and regularly compare customer lists against lists of suspected terrorists, terrorist organizations and money launderers. The costs or other effects of the compliance burdens imposed by the Patriot Act or future 

anti-terrorist, homeland security or anti-money laundering legislation or regulation cannot be predicted with certainty. 

Capital Adequacy. The Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have adopted risk-based and leverage capital adequacy requirements, pursuant to which they assess the adequacy of capital in examining and supervising banks and bank holding companies and in analyzing bank regulatory applications. Risk-based capital requirements determine the adequacy of capital based on the risk inherent in various classes of assets and off-balance sheet items. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board is required to apply consolidated capital requirements to depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent than those currently applied to depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act additionally requires capital requirements to be countercyclical so that the required amount of capital increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent with safety and soundness. 

State member banks are expected to meet a minimum ratio of total qualifying capital (the sum of core capital (Tier 1) and supplementary capital (Tier 2) to risk weighted assets of 8%. At least half of this amount (4%) should be in the form of core capital. 

The description below relates to the requirements, as they existed through December 31, 2014, subsequent to which the revised capital rules implementing Basel III became applicable to the Bank. See "Changes in Capital Requirements" below. 

Tier 1 Capital generally consists of the sum of common shareholders' equity and perpetual preferred stock (subject in the case of the latter to limitations on the kind and amount of such stock which may be included as Tier 1 Capital), less goodwill, without adjustment for changes in the market value of securities classified as "available-for-sale," together with a limited amount of other qualifying interests, including trust preferred securities. Tier 2 Capital consists of the following: hybrid capital instruments; perpetual preferred stock which is not otherwise eligible to be included as Tier 1 Capital; term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock; and, subject to limitations, general allowances for loan losses and excess restricted core capital elements. Assets are adjusted under the risk-based guidelines to take into account different risk characteristics, with the categories ranging from 0% (requiring no risk-based capital) for assets such as cash, to 100% for the bulk of assets which are typically held by a bank holding company, including certain multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans. Residential first mortgage loans on one to four family residential real estate and certain seasoned multi-family residential real estate loans, which are not 90 days or more past due or nonperforming and which have been made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards are assigned a 50% level in the risk-weighing system, as are certain privately-issued mortgage-backed securities representing indirect ownership of such loans. Off-balance sheet items also are adjusted to take into account certain risk characteristics. Under guidance adopted by the federal banking agencies, banks which have concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans (other than loans for majority owner occupied properties) would be expected to maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, higher levels of capital. 

In addition to the risk-based capital requirements, the Federal Reserve Board has established a minimum 3.0% Leverage Capital Ratio (Tier 1 Capital to total adjusted assets) requirement for the most highly-rated banks, with an additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points for all other banks, which effectively increases the minimum Leverage Capital Ratio for such other banks to 4.0% - 5.0% or more. The highest-rated banks are those that are not anticipating or experiencing significant growth and have well diversified risk, including no undue interest rate risk exposure, excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings and, in general, those which are considered a strong banking organization. A bank having less than the minimum Leverage Capital Ratio requirement shall, within 60 days of the date as of which it fails to comply with such requirement, submit a reasonable plan describing the means and timing by which the bank shall achieve its minimum Leverage Capital Ratio requirement. A bank which fails to file such plan is deemed to be operating in an unsafe and unsound manner, and could subject the bank to a 

cease-and-desist order. Any insured depository institution with a Leverage Capital Ratio that is less than 2.0% is deemed to be operating in an unsafe or unsound condition pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA") and is subject to potential termination of deposit insurance. However, such an institution will not be subject to an enforcement proceeding solely on account of its capital ratios, if it has entered into and is in compliance with a written agreement to increase its Leverage Capital Ratio and to take such other action as may be necessary for the institution to be operated in a safe and sound manner. The capital regulations also provide, among other things, for the issuance of a capital directive, which is a final order issued to a bank that fails to maintain minimum capital or to restore its capital to the minimum capital requirement within a specified time period. Such directive is enforceable in the same manner as a final cease-and-desist order. 

The capital ratios described above are the minimum levels that the federal banking agencies expect. Our state and federal regulators have the discretion to require us to maintain higher capital levels based upon our concentrations of loans, the risk of our lending or other activities, the performance of our loan and investment portfolios and other factors. Failure to maintain such higher capital expectations could result in a lower composite regulatory rating, which would impact our deposit insurance premiums and could affect our ability to borrow and costs of borrowing, and could result in additional or more severe enforcement actions. In respect of institutions with high concentrations of loans in areas deemed to be higher risk, or during periods of significant economic stress, regulators may require an institution to maintain a higher level of capital, and/or to maintain more stringent risk management measures, than those required by these regulations. 

Changes in Capital Requirements. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation ("Basel III"). The regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, when fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. 

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things, (i) introduces as a new capital measure "Common Equity Tier 1" ("CET1"), (ii) specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and "Additional Tier 1 capital" instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. 

When fully phased in by January 1, 2019, Basel III requires banks to maintain: (i) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5%; (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, or 8.5%; (iii) a minimum ratio of Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0% plus the capital conservation buffer, or 10.5%; and (iv) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (computed as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter). 

Basel III also provides for a "countercyclical capital buffer," generally to be imposed when federal banking agencies determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. 

Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) may face constraints on its ability to pay dividends, effect equity repurchases and pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers, which constraints vary based on the amount of the shortfall. 

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. 

The federal banking agencies adopted a final rulemaking in July 2013 (the "Basel III Rule") to implement Basel III under regulations substantially consistent with the above. The Basel III Rule also includes, as part of the definition of CET1 capital, a requirement that banking institutions include the amount of additional other comprehensive income ("AOCI," which primarily consists of unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, which are not required to be treated as other-than-temporary impairment, net of tax) in calculating regulatory capital, unless the institution makes a one-time opt-out election from this provision in connection with the filing of its first regulatory reports after applicability of the Basel III Rule to that institution. The Company did, in fact, opt-out of this requirement as allowed by Basel III and, as such, does not include AOCI in its regulatory capital calculation. The Basel III Rule also requires a 4% minimum leverage ratio. 

The Basel III Rule also makes changes to the manner of calculating risk weighted assets. New methodologies for determining risk weighted assets in the general capital rules are included, including revisions to recognition of credit risk mitigation, including a greater recognition of financial collateral and a wider range of eligible guarantors. They also include risk weighting of equity exposures and past due loans; and higher (greater than 100%) risk weighting for certain commercial real estate exposures that have higher credit risk profiles, including higher loan to value and equity components. In particular, loans categorized as "high-volatility commercial real estate" ("HVCRE") loans are required to be assigned a 150% risk weighting, and require additional capital support. HVCRE loans are defined to include any credit facility that finances or has financed the acquisition, development or construction of real property, unless it finances: 1-4 family residential properties; certain community development investments; agricultural land used or usable for, and whose value is based on, agricultural use; or commercial real estate projects in which: (i) the LTV is less than the applicable maximum supervisory LTV ratio established by the bank regulatory agencies; (ii) the borrower has contributed cash or unencumbered readily marketable assets, or has paid development expenses out of pocket, equal to at least 15% of the appraised "as completed" value; (iii) the borrower contributes its 15% before the bank advances any funds; and (iv) the capital contributed by the borrower, and any funds internally generated by the project, is contractually required to remain in the project until the facility is converted to permanent financing, sold or paid in full. 

As discussed below, the Basel III Rule also integrates the new capital requirements into the prompt corrective action provisions under Section 38 of the FDIA. 

The Basel III Rule became applicable to the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. During 2015, the Company and Bank elected to exclude AOCI in calculating regulatory capital as permitted under the Basel III Rule. Basel III subjects the higher risk loans made by ECV to higher risk weightings, and as such these loans require additional capital, or substantial restructuring in order to avoid such higher risk weights. The Company's $70 million of subordinated notes due 2024 qualify for Tier 2 capital treatment under the Basel III Rule. Overall, the Company believes that implementation of the Basel III Rule will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's or the Bank's capital ratios, earnings, shareholder's equity, or its ability to pay dividends, effect stock repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. 

Prompt Corrective Action. Under Section 38 of the FDIA, each federal banking agency is required to implement a system of prompt corrective action for institutions, which it regulates. The federal banking agencies have promulgated substantially similar regulations to implement the system of prompt corrective 

action established by Section 38 of the FDIA. Under the regulations effective through December 31, 2014, a bank shall be deemed to be: (i) "well capitalized" if it has a Total Risk Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or more, a Tier 1 Risk Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or more, a Leverage Capital Ratio of 5.0% or more and is not subject to any written capital order or directive; (ii) "adequately capitalized" if it has a Total Risk Based Capital Ratio of 8.0% or more, a Tier 1 Risk Based Capital Ratio of 4.0% or more and a Tier 1 Leverage Capital Ratio of 4.0% or more (3.0% under certain circumstances) and does not meet the definition of "well capitalized;" (iii) "undercapitalized" if it has a Total Risk Based Capital Ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 Risk based Capital Ratio that is less than 4.0% or a Leverage Capital Ratio that is less than 4.0% (3.0% under certain circumstances); (iv) "significantly undercapitalized" if it has a Total Risk Based Capital Ratio that is less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 Risk Based Capital Ratio that is less than 3.0% or a Leverage Capital Ratio that is less than 3.0%; and (v) "critically undercapitalized" if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. 

An institution generally must file a written capital restoration plan which meets specified requirements with an appropriate federal banking agency within 45 days of the date the institution receives notice or is deemed to have notice that it is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. A federal banking agency must provide the institution with written notice of approval or disapproval within 60 days after receiving a capital restoration plan, subject to extensions by the applicable agency. 

An institution which is required to submit a capital restoration plan must concurrently submit a performance guaranty by each company that controls the institution. Such guaranty shall be limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5.0% of the institution's total assets at the time the institution was notified or deemed to have notice that it was undercapitalized or (ii) the amount necessary at such time to restore the relevant capital measures of the institution to the levels required for the institution to be classified as adequately capitalized. Such a guaranty shall expire after the federal banking agency notifies the institution that it has remained adequately capitalized for each of four consecutive calendar quarters. An institution which fails to submit a written capital restoration plan within the requisite period, including any required performance guaranty, or fails in any material respect to implement a capital restoration plan, shall be subject to the restrictions in Section 38 of the FDIA which are applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. 

A "critically undercapitalized institution" is to be placed in conservatorship or receivership within 90 days unless the FDIC formally determines that forbearance from such action would better protect the Deposit Insurance Fund. Unless the FDIC or other appropriate federal banking agency makes specific further findings and certifies that the institution is viable and is not expected to fail, an institution that remains critically undercapitalized on average during the fourth calendar quarter after the date it becomes critically undercapitalized must be placed in receivership. The general rule is that the FDIC will be appointed as receiver within 90 days after a bank becomes critically undercapitalized unless extremely good cause is shown and an extension is agreed to by the federal regulators. In general, good cause is defined as capital, which has been raised and is imminently available for infusion into the Bank except for certain technical requirements, which may delay the infusion for a period of time beyond the 90 day time period. 

Immediately upon becoming undercapitalized, an institution shall become subject to the provisions of Section 38 of the FDIA, which (i) restrict payment of capital distributions and management fees; (ii) require that the appropriate federal banking agency monitor the condition of the institution and its efforts to restore its capital; (iii) require submission of a capital restoration plan; (iv) restrict the growth of the institution's assets; and (v) require prior approval of certain expansion proposals. The appropriate federal banking agency for an undercapitalized institution also may take any number of discretionary supervisory actions if the agency determines that any of these actions is necessary to resolve the problems of the institution at the least possible long-term cost to the deposit insurance fund, subject in certain cases to specified procedures. These discretionary supervisory actions include: requiring the institution to raise additional capital; restricting transactions with affiliates; requiring divestiture of the institution or the sale 

of the institution to a willing purchaser; and any other supervisory action that the agency deems appropriate. These and additional mandatory and permissive supervisory actions may be taken with respect to significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized institutions. 

Additionally, under Section 11(c)(5) of the FDIA, a conservator or receiver may be appointed for an institution where: (i) an institution's obligations exceed its assets; (ii) there is substantial dissipation of the institution's assets or earnings as a result of any violation of law or any unsafe or unsound practice; (iii) the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition; (iv) there is a willful violation of a cease-and-desist order; (v) the institution is unable to pay its obligations in the ordinary course of business; (vi) losses or threatened losses deplete all or substantially all of an institution's capital, and there is no reasonable prospect of becoming "adequately capitalized" without assistance; (vii) there is any violation of law or unsafe or unsound practice or condition that is likely to cause insolvency or substantial dissipation of assets or earnings, weaken the institution's condition, or otherwise seriously prejudice the interests of depositors or the insurance fund; (viii) an institution ceases to be insured; (ix) the institution is undercapitalized and has no reasonable prospect that it will become adequately capitalized, fails to become adequately capitalized when required to do so, or fails to submit or materially implement a capital restoration plan; or (x) the institution is critically undercapitalized or otherwise has substantially insufficient capital. 

As noted above, the Basel III Rule integrates the new capital requirements into the prompt corrective action category definitions. As of January 1, 2015, the following capital requirements applied to the Company for purposes of Section 38. 

Capital Category 

&#160; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio &#160; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio &#160; Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio &#160; Leverage Ratio &#160; Tangible Equity to Assets &#160; Supplemental Leverage Ratio Well Capitalized &#160; 10% or greater &#160; 8% or greater &#160; 6.5% or greater &#160; 5% or greater &#160; n/a &#160; n/a Adequately Capitalized &#160; 8% or greater &#160; 6% or greater &#160; 4.5% or greater &#160; 4% or greater &#160; n/a &#160; 3% or greater Undercapitalized &#160; Less than 8% &#160; Less than 6% &#160; Less than 4.5% &#160; Less than 4% &#160; n/a &#160; Less than 3% Significantly Undercapitalized &#160; Less than 6% &#160; Less than 4% &#160; Less than3% &#160; Less than 3% &#160; n/a &#160; n/a Critically Undercapitalized &#160; n/a &#160; n/a &#160; n/a &#160; n/a &#160; Less than 2% &#160; n/a 

Regulatory Enforcement Authority. Federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking agencies. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inactions may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulatory authorities. 

As a result of the volatility and instability in the financial system in recent years, Congress, the bank regulatory authorities and other government agencies have called for or proposed additional regulation and restrictions on the activities, practices and operations of banks and their holding companies. While many of these proposals relate to institutions that have accepted investments from, or sold troubled assets to, the Department of the Treasury or other government agencies, or otherwise participate in government programs intended to promote financial stabilization, the Congress and the federal banking agencies have broad authority to require all banks and holding companies to adhere to more rigorous or costly operating procedures, corporate governance procedures, or to engage in activities or practices which they would not otherwise elect. Any such requirement could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act made significant changes to the current bank regulatory structure, which affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires a number of federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare various studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting these rules and regulations, and 

consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for some time. Although it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact of this statute until the extensive rulemaking is complete and becomes effective, the following provisions are considered to be of greatest significance to the Company: 

&#149; Expands the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, including insured depository institutions. &#149; Requires a bank holding company to be well capitalized and well managed to receive approval of an interstate bank acquisition. &#149; Provides mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer's ability to pay and making more loans subject to provisions for higher-cost loans and new disclosures. &#149; Creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which has rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, and has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. &#149; Creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council ("FSOC") with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk. &#149; Introduces additional corporate governance and executive compensation requirements on companies subject to the 1934 Act, as amended. &#149; Permits FDIC-insured banks to pay interest on business demand deposits. &#149; Codifies the requirement that holding companies and other companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution to serve as a source of financial strength. &#149; Makes permanent the $250 thousand limit for federal deposit insurance. &#149; Permits national and state banks to establish interstate branches to the same extent as the branch host state allows establishment of in-state branches. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, a new, independent federal agency within the Federal Reserve System having broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the consumer financial privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes. The CFPB, which began operations on July 21, 2011, has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Smaller institutions, including the Bank, are subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB but continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking agencies for compliance with federal consumer protection laws and regulations. The CFPB also has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 

The CFPB has proposed or issued a number of important rules affecting a wide range of consumer financial products. Many of these rules took effect in January 2014 and October 2015. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and CFPB rulemakings may impact the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to make, or the desirability of making, certain types of loans, including non-qualified mortgage loans, require us to change our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business or profitability. The changes may also require us to dedicate significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to comply with the new statutory and regulatory requirements. 

The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on reforms related to residential mortgage transactions. In 2013, the CFPB issued final rules related to a borrower's ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, requirements for high-cost mortgages, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. In November 2013, the CFPB issued final rules establishing integrated disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents in connection with most closed end, real estate secured consumer loans. The Bank fully complies with these rules, which became effective October 2015. In October 2015, the CFPB issued final rules which, among other things, expand the scope of information lenders must report in connection with mortgage and other housing-related loan applications under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. These rules include significant regulatory and compliance changes and are expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry. The Bank intends to fully comply with these rules, which become effective on a rolling basis between January 1, 2017 and January 1, 2019. 

The final rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that lenders determine whether a consumer has the ability to repay a mortgage loan, which went into effect on January 10, 2014, establishes certain minimum requirements for creditors when making ability to pay determinations, and establishes certain protections from liability for mortgages meeting the definition of "qualified mortgages." Generally, the rule applies to all consumer-purpose, closed-end loans secured by a dwelling including home-purchase loans, refinances and home equity loans&#151;whether first or subordinate lien. The rule does not cover, among other things, home equity lines of credit or other open-end credit; temporary or "bridge" loans with a term of 12 months or less, such as a loan to finance the initial construction of a dwelling; a construction phase of 12 months or less of a construction-to-permanent loan; and business-purpose loans, even if secured by a dwelling. The rule affords greater legal protections for lenders making qualified mortgages that are not "higher priced." Qualified mortgages must generally satisfy detailed requirements related to product features, underwriting standards, and a points and fees requirement whereby the total points and fees on a mortgage loan cannot exceed specified amounts or percentages of the total loan amount. Mandatory features of a qualified mortgage include: (1) a loan term not exceeding 30 years; and (2) regular periodic payments that do not result in negative amortization, deferral of principal repayment, or a balloon payment. Further, the rule clarifies that qualified mortgages do not include "no-doc" loans and loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, or balloon payments. The rule creates special categories of qualified mortgages originated by certain smaller creditors. In January 2015, the CFPB issued a proposed rule that would provide regulatory relief to a broader set of smaller lenders. Among other things, the proposed rule would (1) increase the loan origination limit to qualify for "smaller creditor" status from 500 loans to 2,000 loans annually, (2) extend the transition period for smaller lenders seeking to make qualified mortgages with a balloon payment feature to April 1, 2016. Our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may change as the rule is interpreted by the regulators and courts. 

The final rule adopting new mortgage servicing standards, which took effect January 2014, imposes new requirements regarding force-placed insurance, mandates certain notices prior to rate adjustments on adjustable rate mortgages, and establishes requirements for periodic disclosures to borrowers. These requirements will affect notices to be given to consumers as to delinquency, foreclosure alternatives, modification applications, interest rate adjustments and options for avoiding "force-placed" insurance. Servicers will be prohibited from processing foreclosures when a loan modification is pending, and must wait until a loan is more than 120 days delinquent before initiating a foreclosure action. Servicers must provide direct and ongoing access to its personnel, and provide prompt review of any loss mitigation application. Servicers must maintain accurate and accessible mortgage records for the life of a loan and until one year after the loan is paid off or transferred. These new standards are expected to increase the cost and compliance risks of servicing mortgage loans. While the Bank has a general practice of selling the residential mortgage loans it originates in the secondary market, it continues to engage in servicing activities for the loans it maintains in its portfolio. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these inquiries, actions, or regulatory changes or the impact that they could have on our financial condition, results of operations, or business. 

Additionally, the CFPB has focused on the area of automotive finance, particularly with respect to indirect financing arrangements and fair lending compliance. In March 2013, the CFPB provided guidance about compliance with fair lending requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and its implementing regulations for indirect automotive finance companies that permit dealers to charge annual percentage rates to consumers in excess of buy rates used by the finance company to calculate the price paid to acquire an assignment of the retail installment sale contract. 

FDIC Insurance Premiums. The FDIC maintains a risk-based assessment system for determining deposit insurance premiums. Four risk categories (I-IV), each subject to different premium rates, ranging from a low of 2.5 basis points up to 45 basis points, are established based upon an institution's status as well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized, and the institution's supervisory rating. An insured institution is required to pay deposit insurance premiums on its assessment base in accordance with its risk category. In general, a bank's assessment base is determined by subtracting the bank's tangible equity and certain allowable deductions from its consolidated average assets. There are three adjustments that can be made to an institution's initial base assessment rate: (1) a potential decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including senior and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (2) a potential increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, a potential increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. The FDIC may also impose special assessments from time to time. 

The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum deposit insurance amount for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on a financial institution's average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by 2020 and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to insured depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the statutory prohibition against the payment of interest on business checking accounts. 

Increased Focus on Lending to Members of the Military. The federal banking agencies and the Department of Justice have recently increased its focus on financial institution compliance with the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). The SCRA requires a bank to cap the interest rate at 6% for any loan to a member of the military who goes on active duty after taking out the loan. It also limits the actions the bank can take when a servicemember is in foreclosure. The Bank fully complies with this rule. 

