 BUSINESS 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE, INDUSTRY AND OTHER INFORMATION 

Edison International was incorporated in 1987 as the parent holding company of SCE, a California public utility. Edison International also owns and holds interests in companies that are Competitive Businesses. 

The principal executive offices of Edison International and SCE are located at 2244 Walnut Grove Avenue, P.O. Box 976, Rosemead, California 91770, and the telephone numbers are (626) 302-2222 for Edison International and (626) 302-1212 for SCE. 

This is a combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for Edison International and SCE. Edison International and SCE make available at www.edisoninvestor.com: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after Edison International and SCE electronically file such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Such reports are also available on the SEC's internet website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or connected to, the Edison investor website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

Subsidiaries of Edison International &#32; 

SCE &#8211; Public Utility 

SCE is an investor-owned public utility primarily engaged in the business of supplying and delivering electricity through SCE's electrical infrastructure to an approximately 50,000 square-mile area of southern California. SCE serves approximately 5 million customers in its service area. In 2015, SCE's total operating revenue of $11.5 billion was derived as follows: 43.3% commercial customers, 37.8% residential customers, 5.3% industrial customers, 5.0% public authorities 2.1% agricultural and other, and 6.5% other operating revenue. 

Edison Energy Group &#8211; New Competitive Businesses 

Edison International is developing its Competitive Businesses as it continues to see merit in the ownership and operation of initially small, targeted investments in energy services that utilize technologies and markets to capitalize on changes in the electricity industry as a matter of corporate strategy. The Competitive Businesses are held by the Edison Energy Group. 

The principal activities during 2015 and 2014 were behind the meter sales of solar-generated power to commercial and industrial customers under power purchase agreements or the sale of distributed generation systems directly to the customer (build/transfer contracts) through a subsidiary of Edison Energy Group, SoCore Energy LLC. As of December 31, 2015, SoCore Energy had constructed and achieved commercial operations for 54 MW of rooftop solar systems in 16 states. 

Edison Energy, LLC plans to broaden its products and services offered to commercial and industrial customers to include various energy advisory services and products that help simplify and optimize the customers' evolving energy needs amid uncertainty around changing technologies and regulation. This may include the acquisition of companies specializing in one or more of these services as well as internally-developed products and services. On December 31, 2015, Edison Energy acquired three businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $100 million. For more information, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8212;Note 9. Investments." These acquisitions expanded Edison Energy&#8217;s capability to provide engineering design and construction services, energy procurement advisory services, including utility bill processing and analytics, and the capability to structure transactions to source long-term renewable resources directly to large commercial or industrial customers. 

Edison Transmission, LLC&#8217;s focus is on solicitations for competitive transmission projects outside SCE's territory, where it works alone or with other transmission companies to develop and bid on projects and, if successful, make investment in such competitive transmission projects that bear a FERC authorized rate of return. In addition, Edison Transmission is one of the eight founders of Grid Assurance TM , a limited liability company developing grid resiliency offerings for domestic utilities. 

Edison Water Resources, LLC is focused on developing reliable, sustainable and local sources of new water through a variety of water purification and treatment technologies. Edison Water Resources seeks to support state and local goals related to the drought in California and will focus initially on the use of onsite wastewater recycling units and small, energy-efficient, reverse osmosis units to purify brackish groundwater. 

To date, these investments are below 1% of the total consolidated assets and, therefore, not material to be reported as a business segment. 

Regulation of Edison International as a Holding Company 

As a public utility holding company, Edison International is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The Public Utility Holding Company Act primarily obligates Edison International and its utility subsidiaries to provide access to their books and records to the FERC and the CPUC for ratemaking purposes. 

Edison International is not a public utility and its capital structure is not regulated by the CPUC. The 1988 CPUC decision authorizing SCE to reorganize into a holding company structure, however, imposed certain obligations on Edison International and its affiliates. These obligations include a requirement that SCE's dividend policy shall continue to be established by SCE's Board of Directors as though SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of Edison International and SCE. The CPUC has also promulgated Affiliate Transaction Rules, which, among other requirements, prohibit holding companies from (1) being used as a conduit to provide non-public information to a utility's affiliate and (2) causing or abetting a utility's violation of the rules, including providing preferential treatment to affiliates. 

Employees and Labor Relations 

At December 31, 2015, Edison International and its consolidated subsidiaries had an aggregate of 12,768 full-time employees, 12,678 of which were full-time employees at SCE. 

Approximately 3,880 of SCE's full-time employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW"). The IBEW collective bargaining agreements expire on December 31, 2017. 

Insurance 

Edison International maintains a property and casualty insurance program for itself and its subsidiaries and excess liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties for bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations. These policies are subject to specific retentions, sub-limits and deductibles, which are comparable to those carried by other utility companies of similar size. SCE also has separate insurance programs for nuclear property and liability, workers compensation and solar rooftop construction. For further information on nuclear and wildfire insurance, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8212;Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies&#8212;Contingencies." 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY 

Regulation 

CPUC 

The CPUC has the authority to regulate, among other things, retail rates, energy purchases on behalf of retail customers, SCE capital structure, rate of return, issuance of securities, disposition of utility assets and facilities, oversight of nuclear decommissioning funding and costs, and aspects of the transmission system planning, site identification and construction, including safety. 

FERC 

The FERC has the authority to regulate wholesale rates as well as other matters, including unbundled transmission service pricing, rate of return, accounting practices, and licensing of hydroelectric projects. The FERC also has jurisdiction over a portion of the retail rates and associated rate design. 

NERC 

The FERC assigned administrative responsibility to the NERC to establish and enforce reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards, which protect the bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets, including supervisory control and data acquisition systems for the electric grid. Compliance with these standards is mandatory. The maximum penalty that may be levied for violating a NERC reliability or critical infrastructure protection standard is $1 million per violation, per day. 

SCE has a formal cyber security program that covers SCE's information technology systems as well as customer data. Program staff is engaged with industry groups as well as public-private initiatives to reduce risk and to strengthen the security and reliability of SCE's systems and infrastructure. The program is also engaged in the protection of SCE's customer information. 

Nuclear Power Plant Regulation 

The NRC has jurisdiction with respect to the safety of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations. The NRC regulates commercial nuclear power plants through licensing, oversight and inspection, performance assessment, and enforcement of its requirements. In June 2013, SCE decided to permanently retire and decommission San Onofre. For further information, see "Management Overview&#8212;Permanent Retirement of San Onofre and San Onofre OII Settlement" in the MD&#38;A. 

Other Regulatory Agencies 

The construction, planning and project site identification of SCE's transmission lines and substation facilities require the approval of many governmental agencies and compliance with various laws in addition to the CPUC and FERC. These include various state regulatory agencies depending on the project location; the CAISO, and other environmental, land management and resource agencies such as the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the California Department of Fish and Game, and the California Coastal Commission; and regional water quality control boards. In addition, to the extent that SCE transmission line projects pass through lands owned or controlled by Native American tribes, consent and approval from the affected tribes and the Bureau of Indian Affairs are also necessary for the project to proceed. 

Overview of Ratemaking Process 

CPUC 

Revenue authorized by the CPUC through triennial GRC proceedings is intended to provide SCE a reasonable opportunity to recover its costs and earn a return on its net investments in generation and distribution assets and general plant (also referred to as "rate base") on a forecast basis. The CPUC sets an annual revenue requirement for the base year which is made up of the operation and maintenance costs, depreciation, taxes and a return consistent with the authorized cost of capital (discussed below). In the GRC proceedings, the CPUC also generally approves the level of capital spending on a forecast basis. Following the base year, the revenue requirements for the remaining two years are set by a methodology established in the GRC proceeding, which generally, among other items, includes annual allowances for escalation in operation and maintenance costs and additional changes in capital-related investments. In December 2014, the CPUC adopted a new risk assessment protocol, which includes a triennial safety model assessment proceeding ("S-MAP") to evaluate the utility models used to prioritize safety risks, examine the utilities' assessment of their key risks and their proposed mitigation programs, and provide annual reporting of risk spending and mitigation results. 

SCE's 2015 GRC authorized revenue requirements for 2015, 2016, and 2017 of $5.182 billion, $5.391 billion, and $5.663 billion, respectively. For further discussion of the 2015 GRC, see "Management Overview&#8212;Regulatory Proceedings&#8212;2015 General Rate Case" in the MD&#38;A. 

The CPUC regulates SCE's cost of capital, including its capital structure and authorized rates of return. SCE's authorized capital structure is 43% long-term debt, 9% preferred equity and 48% common equity. SCE's currently authorized cost of capital consists of: cost of long-term debt of 5.49%, cost of preferred equity of 5.79% and return on common equity of 10.45%. In November 2015, the CPUC granted a request made by SCE and the other Investor-owned utilities to postpone the filing of new cost of capital applications from April 2016 to April 2017, thus extending the current cost of capital mechanism through 2017. For more information, see "Management Overview&#8212;Regulatory Proceedings&#8212;Cost of Capital" in the MD&#38;A. The mechanism provides for an automatic adjustment to SCE's authorized cost of capital if the utility bond index changes beyond certain thresholds on an annual basis. The return on common equity will remain at 10.45% in 2016 and through 2017 subject to CPUC approval. 

SCE's return on investment is established by multiplying an authorized rate of return, determined in separate cost of capital proceedings, by SCE's authorized CPUC rate base. 

CPUC rates decouple authorized revenue from the volume of electricity sales so that SCE receives revenue equal to amounts authorized. Differences between amounts collected and authorized levels are either collected from or refunded to customers, and, therefore, such differences do not impact operating revenue. Accordingly, SCE is neither benefited nor burdened by the volumetric risk related to retail electricity sales. 

Balancing accounts (also referred to as cost-recovery mechanisms) are typically used to track and recover SCE's decoupled costs of fuel and purchased-power, as well as certain operation and maintenance expenses, including energy efficiency and demand-side management program costs. SCE earns no return on these activities and although differences between forecasted and actual costs do not impact earnings, such differences do impact cash flows and can change rapidly. 

SCE's balancing account for fuel and power procurement-related costs is referred to as the ERRA balancing account. SCE sets rates based on an annual forecast of the costs that it expects to incur during the subsequent year. In addition, the CPUC has established a "trigger" mechanism for the ERRA balancing account that allows for a rate adjustment if the balancing account over- or under-collection exceeds 5% of SCE's prior year's revenue that is classified as generation for retail rates. For 2016, the trigger amount is approximately $326 million. At December 31, 2015, SCE's overcollection in the ERRA balancing account was approximately $420 million, which is being refunded to customers in rates beginning on January 1, 2016. 

The majority of procurement-related costs eligible for recovery through cost-recovery rates are pre-approved by the CPUC through specific decisions and a procurement plan with predefined standards that establish the eligibility for cost recovery. If such costs are subsequently found to be non-compliant with this procurement plan, then this could negatively impact SCE's earnings and cash flows. In addition, the CPUC retrospectively reviews outages associated with utility-owned generation and SCE's power procurement contract administration activities through the annual ERRA review proceeding. If SCE is found to be unreasonable or imprudent with respect to its utility-owned generation outages and contract administration activities, then this could negatively impact SCE's earnings and cash flows. 

FERC 

Revenue authorized by the FERC is intended to provide SCE with recovery of its prudently-incurred transmission costs, including a return on its net investment in transmission assets (also referred to as "rate base"). In November 2013, the FERC approved SCE's settlement to implement a formula rate effective January 1, 2012 to determine SCE's FERC transmission revenue requirement, including its construction work in progress ("CWIP") revenue requirement that was previously recovered through a separate mechanism. Under operation of the formula rate, transmission revenue will be updated to actual cost of service annually. The transmission revenue requirement and rates are updated each December, to reflect a forecast of costs for the upcoming rate period, as well as a true up of the transmission revenue to actual costs incurred by SCE in the prior calendar year on its formula rate. The FERC weighted average ROE, including project and other incentives, is comparable to the CPUC ROE of 10.45% and can vary based on the mix of project costs that have different incentives. The moratorium, provided for in the settlement, on modifications to the formula rate tariff including the FERC ROE, ended on June 30, 2015. For further information on the current FERC formula rates, related transmission revenue requirements and rate changes, see "Management Overview&#8212;Regulatory Proceedings&#8212;FERC Formula Rates" in the MD&#38;A. 

Retail Rates Structure and Residential Rate Design 

To develop retail rates, the authorized revenue requirements are allocated among all customer classes (residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural and street lighting) on a functional basis (i.e., generation, distribution, transmission, etc.). Specific rate components are designed to recover the authorized revenue allocated to each customer class. 

SCE has a four-tier residential rate structure. Each tier represents a certain electricity usage level and within each increasing usage level, the electricity is priced at a higher rate per kilowatt hour. Although, for more than a decade after the energy crisis, statutory restrictions on increasing Tier 1 and 2 rates resulted in shifting much of the cost of residential rate increases to the higher tier/usage customers, the California legislature passed a law ("AB 327") in October 2013 that lifted the restrictions on Tier 1 and 2 rates. The CPUC subsequently approved increases to Tier 1 and 2 rates that went into effect in July 2014. In July 2015, the CPUC adopted an approach for flattening the tiered rate structure over time so that, by 2019, SCE will have only two tiers with a price differential of 25% and a separate Super User Electric Surcharge for customers consuming more than 400% of average usage. The CPUC also approved a $10 per month minimum bill ($5 for low-income customers), which went into effect in July 2015. The increased minimum bill permits SCE to recover a larger portion of its fixed costs of serving no- or low-usage residential customers through a minimum charge rather than through energy charges that vary with usage. For information on rates for customers with renewable generation systems, see "&#8212;Competition" below. 

Energy Efficiency Incentive Mechanism 

In December 2012, the CPUC adopted an energy efficiency incentive mechanism for the 2010 &#8211; 2012 energy efficiency program performance period. The mechanism used an incentive calculation that is based on actual energy efficiency expenditures. In September 2013, the CPUC adopted a new energy efficiency incentive mechanism called the Energy Savings and Performance Incentive Mechanism ("ESPI"). The ESPI applies starting with the 2013 &#8211; 2014 energy efficiency program cycle and continue for subsequent cycles, until further notice. The ESPI is comprised of performance/savings rewards and management fees based on actual energy efficiency expenditures and does not contain any provisions for penalties. The 

proposed ESPI schedule for earning claims anticipates payments of the incentive rewards occurring between one and two years after the relevant program year. For further information on the energy efficiency awards, see "Management Overview&#8212;Regulatory Proceedings&#8212;Energy Efficiency Incentive Mechanism" in the MD&#38;A. 

Purchased Power and Fuel Supply 

SCE obtains the power, energy, and local grid support needed to serve its customers primarily from purchases from external parties. Less than 20% of the needed power is provided by SCE's own generating facilities. 

Natural Gas Supply 

SCE requires natural gas to meet contractual obligations for power tolling agreements (power contracts in which SCE has agreed to provide or pay for the natural gas used to generate electricity). SCE also requires natural gas to fuel its Mountainview and peaker plants, which are generation units that are designed to operate in response to changes in demand for power. The physical natural gas purchased by SCE is sourced in competitive interstate markets. SoCalGas provides the in-state pipeline transportation service to the gas-fueled generation stations that SCE controls. SoCalGas is experiencing a significant natural gas fuel leak at its Aliso Canyon underground gas storage facility. If the storage facility is not returned to service, SCE anticipates that increased gas-use restrictions would increase the cost of electricity for customers and potentially impact grid reliability. However, the price increase would not affect SCE's earnings because decoupled costs of fuel and purchased-power are recovered from customers through balancing accounts. For more information on cost-recovery mechanisms, see "&#8212;Overview of Ratemaking Process" above. SCE is actively monitoring legislative and regulatory processes that are addressing pipeline and electric grid operations impacted by the Aliso Canyon leak. 

CAISO Wholesale Energy Market 

The CAISO operates a wholesale energy market primarily in California through which competing electricity generators offer their electricity output to market participants, including electricity retailers. The CAISO schedules power in hourly increments with hourly prices through a day-ahead market in California and schedules power in fifteen-minute and five-minute increments with fifteen-minute and five-minute prices through two real-time markets that cover California and portions of six neighboring states through the Energy Imbalance Market. Both markets optimize energy procurement, ancillary service procurement, unit commitment and congestion management. SCE participates in the day-ahead and real-time markets for the sale of its generation and purchases for its load requirements. 

Competition 

SCE faces retail competition in the sale of electricity to the extent that federal and California laws permit other entities to provide electricity and related services to customers within SCE's service area. While California law provides only limited opportunities for customers in SCE's service area to choose to purchase power directly from an energy service provider other than SCE, a limited, phased-in expansion of customer choice (direct access) for nonresidential customers was permitted beginning in 2009. SCE also faces competition from cities and municipal districts that create municipal utilities or community choice aggregators. Competition between SCE and other electricity providers is conducted mainly on the basis of price. 

SCE also faces increased competition from customer-owned power generation alternatives, such as roof-top solar facilities, becoming available to its customers as a result of technological developments, federal and state subsidies, and declining costs of such alternatives. 

Legislation passed in 1995 encouraged private residential and commercial investment in renewable energy resources by requiring SCE to offer a net energy metering ("NEM") billing option to customers who install eligible power generation systems to supply all or part of their energy needs. NEM customers are interconnected to SCE's grid and credited for the net difference between the electricity SCE supplied to them through the grid and the electricity the customer exported to SCE over a twelve month period. SCE is required to credit the NEM customer for most of the power they sell back to SCE at the retail rate. Through the credit they receive, NEM customers effectively avoid paying certain grid-related costs. NEM customers are also exempted from non-bypassable, standby and departing load charges and interconnection fees. 

In January 2016, the CPUC issued a decision implementing AB 327, a rate reform bill enacted in 2013 that instructed the CPUC to develop new standard rates for customers with renewable generation systems. The changes that the CPUC decision made to the existing NEM tariff do not significantly impact the NEM subsidy. Specifically, the decision requires customers that take service on SCE&#8217;s NEM tariff after June 2017 to continue to be compensated at the retail rate, minus certain non-bypassable charges. NEM customers will also continue to be exempted from standby and departing load charges, but will be required to pay a $75 interconnection fee and to select a Time-of-Use ("TOU") retail rate. The CPUC will consider making additional adjustments to the NEM tariff when it adopts default TOU rates in 2019. 

The effect of these types of competition on SCE generally is to reduce the amount of electricity purchased by customers. However customers, except for NEM customers, who use alternative electricity providers, typically continue to utilize and pay for SCE's transmission and distribution services. See "Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company&#8212;Competitive and Market Risks." 

In the area of transmission infrastructure, SCE has experienced increased competition from independent transmission providers. The FERC has made changes to its transmission planning requirements with the goal of opening transmission development to competition from independent developers. The FERC adopted rules, effective in 2011, that removed the incumbent public utility transmission owners' federally-based right of first refusal to construct certain new transmission facilities and mandated regional and interregional transmission planning. In compliance with these rules, regional entities, such as independent system operators, have created processes for regional and interregional transmission planning and the competitive solicitation and selection of developers (including incumbent utilities) to build and own certain types of new transmission projects. In December 2014, the FERC issued orders approving the CAISO's process for regional planning and competitive solicitations and the CAISO's interregional planning process. The CAISO has held competitive solicitations pursuant to the new rules and independent service providers have been selected. 

