 Item 1 . Business 

Company Overview 

EMCORE Corporation together with its subsidiaries (referred to herein as the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or &#8220;EMCORE&#8221;), established in 1984 as a New Jersey corporation, designs and manufactures Indium Phosphide (InP) optical chips, components, subsystems and systems for the broadband and specialty fiber optics market. EMCORE was the pioneer in linear fiber optic transmission technology, and today, is a leading provider of optical components, as well as a provider of complete end-to-end solutions for high-speed communications network infrastructures, enabling systems and service providers to meet growing demand for bandwidth and connectivity. EMCORE&#8217;s advanced optical technologies are designed for cable television (CATV) and fiber-to-the-premise (FTTP) networks, telecommunications and data centers, satellite communications, aerospace and defense, wireless networks, and broadcast and professional audio/video systems. With its world-class InP semiconductor wafer fabrication facility, EMCORE has fully vertically-integrated manufacturing capability and also provides contract design, foundry and component packaging services. 

We currently have one reporting segment: Fiber Optics. Until the first quarter of 2015, we operated as two segments: Fiber Optics and Photovoltaics. EMCORE's Solar Photovoltaics business, which was sold in December 2014, provided products for space power applications including high-efficiency multi-junction solar cells, Covered Interconnect Cells and complete satellite solar panels. In addition, as further discussed below, EMCORE sold certain assets, and transferred certain liabilities, of the Company's telecommunications business, including the ITLA, micro-ITLA, T-TOSA and T-XFP product lines within the Company&#8217;s telecommunications business, in January 2015. 

Our headquarters and principal executive offices are located at 2015 W. Chestnut Avenue, Alhambra, California, 91803 and our main telephone number is (626) 293-3400. For specific information about us, our products or the markets we serve, please visit our website at http://www.emcore.com. The information contained in or linked to our website is not a part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or a part of any other report or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). 

We are subject to the information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). We file periodic reports, current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains all of our information that has been filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. We make available free of charge on our website a link to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable, after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

Overview of Our Industry and Markets We Serve 

Compound semiconductor-based products provide the foundation of components, subsystems, and systems used in a broad range of technology markets. Compound semiconductor materials are capable of providing electrical or electro-optical functions, such as emitting optical communications signals and detecting optical communications signals. 

Collectively, our products serve the telecommunications, CATV, FTTP, defense and homeland security, satellite communications and broadcast and professional audio/video markets. 

Fiber Optics Products 

Our fiber optics products enable information that is modulated on light signals to be transmitted, routed (switched) and received in communication systems and networks. EMCORE primarily offers the following product lines: 

&#9642; 

Laser, Receiver and Photodetector Component Products &#32;- We believe that we are a leading provider of optical components including lasers, photodetectors, and various forms of packaged subassemblies. Our products include bare die (or chip), distributed feedback (DFB) lasers, positive-intrinsic-negative (PIN) and avalanche photodiode (APD) components for 40 Gb/s Ethernet, InfiniBand, FTTP, and telecom applications. We provide component products to the global fiber optics industry, and we also leverage the benefits of our vertically-integrated infrastructure through low-cost manufacturing and early access to newly developed internally-produced components. 

&#9642; 

Cable Television (CATV) Products &#32;- We believe that we are a market leader in providing radio frequency (RF) over fiber products for the CATV industry. Our products are used in hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) networks that enable cable service operators to offer multiple advanced services to meet the expanding demand for high-speed Internet, on-demand and interactive video, and other advanced services, such as high-definition television (HDTV) and voice over IP (VoIP). Our CATV products include forward and return-path analog and digital lasers, photodetectors and subassembly components, broadcast analog and digital fiber-optic transmitters, and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) transmitters and receivers. Our products provide our customers with increased data transmission distance, speed and bandwidth, lower noise video reception, and lower power consumption. 

&#9642; 

Fiber-To-The-Premises (FTTP) Products &#32;- Telecommunications companies are extending their optical infrastructure to their business enterprise and residential customers because of higher bandwidth requirements. We have developed customer qualified FTTP components and subsystem products to support plans by telecommunications companies to offer voice, video, and data services through the deployment of new fiber optics-based access networks. Our FTTP products include passive optical network (PON) transceivers, RF over glass (RFoG) optical transceivers, analog fiber optic transmitters for video overlay and high-power erbium-doped fiber amplifiers (EDFA), analog and digital lasers, photodetectors and subassembly components, analog video receivers, and multi-dwelling unit (MDU) video receivers. Our products provide our customers with higher performance analog and digital designs, and support exceptional network performance capabilities for service providers. 

&#9642; 

Satellite/Microwave Communications Products &#32;- We believe that we are a leading provider of optical components and systems for use in equipment that provides high-performance optical data links for the terrestrial portion of satellite communications networks. Our products include transmitters, receivers, subsystems, and systems that transport wideband RF and microwave signals between satellite hub equipment and antenna dishes. Our products provide our customers with increased bandwidth and lower power consumption. 

&#9642; 

Broadcast &#38; A/V Video Transport Products - Our video transport product line focuses on developing targeted solutions that meet the evolving technology needs of our customers in broadcasting, government, transportation, IP television, and security and surveillance applications over private and public networks. Our video, audio, data, and RF transmission systems serve both analog and digital requirements, providing cost-effective, flexible solutions geared for infrastructure upgrades and expansion. 

&#9642; 

Defense and Homeland Security &#32; Products &#32;- Leveraging our expertise in RF module design and high-speed parallel optics, we provide a suite of ruggedized products that meet the reliability and durability requirements of the U.S. government and defense markets. Our specialty defense products include fiber optic gyro components used in commercial and military applications, high-frequency RF fiber optic link components for towed decoy systems, optical delay lines for radar systems, erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, pulse lasers for light detection and ranging spectroscopy systems and other products. Our products provide our customers with high frequency and dynamic range, compact form-factor, and extreme temperature, shock and vibration tolerance. 

Customers include: Arris Technology Inc., BUPT-GuoAn Broadband and Cisco Systems Inc. Significant customers are defined as customers representing greater than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Revenue from three &#32;of our significant customers represented 61% &#32;of our consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016 . Revenue from four &#32;of our significant customers represented 61% &#32;of our consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 . Revenue from three &#32;of our signficant customers represented 41% &#32;of our consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014 . See Note 14 - Geographical Information &#32;in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our significant customers. 

Geographical Information 

See Note 14 - Geographical Information &#32;in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for disclosures related to geographic revenue and long-lived assets. 

Strategic Plan 

Strategy and Alternatives Committee of the Board of Directors 

In addition to organic growth and development of our existing Fiber Optics business, we intend to pursue other strategies to enhance shareholder value. The Strategy and Alternatives Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Strategy Committee"), which was established in December 2013, is charged with overseeing the Company&#8217;s strategic plan and evaluating strategic opportunities and alternatives available to the Company, including potential mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other key strategic transactions outside the ordinary course of the Company&#8217;s business. Accordingly, the Strategy Committee may from time to time consider strategic opportunities to enhance shareholder value, which may include acquisitions, investments in joint ventures, partnerships, and other strategic alternatives, such as dispositions, reorganizations, recapitalizations or other similar transactions, the repurchase of shares of our outstanding common stock or payment of dividends to our shareholders. The Strategy Committee may engage financial and other advisors to assist it in doing so. Accordingly, the Strategy Committee and our management may from time to time be engaged in evaluating potential strategic opportunities and may enter into definitive agreements with respect to such transactions or other strategic alternatives. However, there is no assurance that the Strategy Committee will identify further strategic opportunities that the Company will determine to pursue, or that the consideration of any such opportunity would result in the completion of a strategic transaction. 

Sale of Photovoltaics and Digital Products Businesses 

On September 17, 2014 , EMCORE entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the &#8220;Photovoltaics Agreement&#8221;) with SolAero Acquisition Corporation ("SolAero"), a Delaware corporation and an affiliate of private equity firm Veritas Capital, pursuant to which SolAero agreed to acquire substantially all of the assets, and assume substantially all of the liabilities, primarily related to or used in connection with the Company&#8217;s photovoltaics business, including EMCORE's subsidiaries EMCORE Solar Power, Inc. and EMCORE IRB Company, LLC (collectively, the "Photovoltaics Business" and, the sale of the Photovoltaics Business, the "Photovoltaics Asset Sale") for $150.0 million &#32;in cash, prior to a $0.1 million &#32;working capital adjustment pursuant to the Photovoltaics Agreement finalized and paid by EMCORE during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 . On December 10, 2014 , EMCORE completed the Photovoltaics Asset Sale. 

On October 22, 2014 , EMCORE entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Digital Products Agreement") with NeoPhotonics Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("NeoPhotonics") pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell certain assets, and transfer certain liabilities of the Company's telecommunications business (collectively, the "Digital Products Business" and, the sale of the Digital Products Business, the "Digital Products Assets Sale") to NeoPhotonics for an aggregate purchase price of $17.5 million , subject to certain purchase price adjustments, consisting of $1.5 million &#32;in cash at closing and a promissory note in the principal amount of $16.0 million &#32;(the "Promissory Note"). The Promissory Note provided that it would bear interest of 5.0% &#32;per annum for the first year and 13.0% &#32;per annum for the second year, payable semi-annually in cash, and would mature two years from the closing of the transaction. In addition, the Promissory Note was subject to prepayments under certain circumstances, and was secured by certain of the assets sold to NeoPhotonics in the transaction. 

On January 2, 2015 , EMCORE and NeoPhotonics entered into Amendment No. 1 (the "APA Amendment") to the Digital Products Agreement. Among other things, the APA Amendment revised the nature and timing of the financial deliverable requirements of the Company to NeoPhotonics under the original Digital Products Agreement. The assets sold pursuant to the Digital Products Agreement included certain fixed assets, inventory, accounts receivable and intellectual property for the ITLA, micro-ITLA, T-TOSA and T-XFP product lines within the Company&#8217;s telecommunications business. On January 2, 2015 , EMCORE completed the sale of the Digital Products Business. On April 16, 2015 , EMCORE and NeoPhotonics entered into an agreement to adjust the purchase price for the Digital Products Business, resulting in an adjusted balance of the Promissory Note of $15.5 million . On April 17, 2015 , NeoPhotonics paid in full the balance outstanding of the Promissory Note of $15.5 million , plus accrued interest of $0.2 million . 

We used a portion of the proceeds from the Photovoltaics Asset Sale and the Digital Products Assets Sale (collectively, the "Asset Sales") to pay for transaction costs associated with the Asset Sales, make payments required pursuant to existing retention award agreements, repay certain indebtedness, and for general working capital purposes. In June 2015, we also used a portion of the proceeds from the Asset Sales to repurchase 6.9 million &#32;shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $45.0 million &#32;(excluding fees and expenses) pursuant to a modified "Dutch auction" tender offer we commenced in May 2015. In addition, in July 2016 , we used a portion of the proceeds from the Asset Sales to pay a special cash dividend to our shareholders of $1.50 &#32;per share, or a total of $39.2 million . The dividend was paid on July 29, 2016 &#32;to shareholders of record as of July 18, 2016 . See Note 13 - Equity &#32;for additional information. 

Sources of Raw Materials 

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components, and equipment used in our products. We continually review our supplier relationships to mitigate risks and lower costs, especially where we depend on one or two suppliers for critical components or raw materials. While maintaining inventories that we believe are sufficient to meet our near-term needs, we strive not to carry significant inventories of raw materials. Accordingly, we maintain ongoing communications with our suppliers in order to prevent any interruptions in supply, and have implemented a supply-chain management program to maintain quality and lower purchase prices through standardized purchasing efficiencies and design requirements. To date, we generally have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of critical supplies in a timely manner. 

We are subject to rules promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding the use of "conflict minerals". These rules have imposed and will continue to impose additional costs and may introduce new risks related to our ability to verify the origin of any "conflict minerals" used in our products. 

Manufacturing 

We utilize MOCVD (metal-organic chemical vapor deposition) systems that are capable of processing virtually all compound semiconductor-based materials. Our operations include wafer fabrication, device design and production and fiber optic module, subsystem and system design and manufacture. Many of our manufacturing operations are computer monitored or controlled to enhance production output and statistical control. We employ a strategy of minimizing ongoing capital investments, while maximizing the variable nature of our cost structure. We maintain supply agreements with key suppliers. Where we can gain cost advantages while maintaining quality and intellectual property control, we outsource the production of certain products, subsystems, components, and subassemblies to contract manufacturers located overseas. Our contract manufacturers maintain comprehensive quality assurance and delivery systems, and we continuously monitor them for compliance. 

Our various manufacturing processes involve extensive quality assurance systems and performance testing. Our facilities have acquired and maintain certification status for their quality management systems. Our manufacturing facilities located in Alhambra, California; Ivyland, Pennsylvania; Beijing, China; and Langfang, China are registered to ISO 9001 standards. 

Sales and Marketing 

We sell our products worldwide through our direct sales force, application engineers, third party sales representatives and distributors. Our sales force communicates with our customers' engineering, manufacturing, and purchasing personnel to provide optimized customer solutions through product design, qualifications, performance, and price. Our strategy is to use our direct sales force to sell to original equipment manufacturers and key accounts and to expand our use of distribution partners for increased coverage in both international markets and certain domestic segments. 

Throughout our sales cycle, we work closely with our customers to qualify our products into their product lines and platforms. As a result, we develop strategic and long-lasting customer relationships with products and services that are tailored to our customers' requirements. We focus our marketing communication efforts on increasing brand awareness, communicating our technologies' advantages, and generating leads for our sales force. We use a variety of marketing methods, including our website, participation at trade shows, and selective advertising to achieve these goals. 

Externally, our marketing group works with customers to define requirements, characterize market trends, define new product development activities, identify cost reduction initiatives, and manage new product introductions. Internally, our marketing group communicates and manages customer requirements with the goal of ensuring that our product development activities are aligned with our customers' needs. These product development activities allow our marketing group to manage new product introductions and market trends. See Note 14 - Geographical Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures related to geographic revenue, and significant customers. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts have been focused on maintaining our technological competitive edge by working to improve the quality and features of our product lines. We are also making investments to expand our existing technology and infrastructure in an effort to develop new products and production technology that we can use to expand into new markets. Our industry is characterized by rapid changes in process technologies with increasing levels of functional integration. Our efforts are focused on designing new proprietary processes and products, on improving the performance of our existing materials, components, and subsystems, and on reducing costs in the product manufacturing process. 

As part of the ongoing effort to cut costs, many of our projects have focused on developing lower cost versions of our existing products. In view of the high cost of development, we solicit research contracts that provide opportunities to enhance our core technology base and promote the commercialization of targeted products. Generally, internal research and development funding is used for the development of products that will be released within twelve months and external funding is used for long-term research and development efforts. 

We believe that in order to remain competitive, we must invest significant financial resources in developing new product features and enhancements and in maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. Research and development expense was $9.9 million , $9.1 million &#32;and $9.3 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses were 10.8% , 11.2% &#32;and 16.8% &#32;for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Our research and development expense consists primarily of compensation expense including non-cash stock-based compensation expense, as well as engineering and prototype costs, depreciation expense, and other overhead expenses, as they relate to the design, development, and testing of our products. These costs are expensed as incurred. 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

We protect our proprietary technology by applying for patents, where appropriate, and in other cases by preserving the technology, related know-how, and information as trade secrets. The success and competitive advantage enjoyed by our product lines depends heavily on our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our proprietary technologies. We also acquire, through license grants or assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others. As of September 30, 2016 , we held approximately 70 &#32;U.S. patents and approximately 35 &#32;foreign patents and had over 20 &#32;additional patent applications pending. The issued patents cover various products in the major markets we serve. Our U.S. patents will expire on varying dates between 2017 and 2031. These patents and patent applications claim protection for various aspects of current or planned commercial versions of our materials, components, subsystems, and systems. 

We also have entered into license agreements with the other organizations, under which we have obtained exclusive or non-exclusive rights to practice inventions claimed in various patents and applications issued or pending in the U.S. or other foreign jurisdictions. We do not believe our financial obligations under any of these agreements adversely affects our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

We rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property when we believe that publishing patents would make it easier for others to reverse engineer our proprietary processes. We also rely on other intellectual property rights such as trademarks and copyrights where appropriate. 

Environmental Regulations 

We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge, and disposal of certain materials used in our research and development and production operations, as well as laws and regulations concerning environmental remediation, homeland security, and employee health and safety. The production of wafers and devices involves the use of certain hazardous raw materials, including, but not limited to, ammonia, phosphine, and arsine. We have in-house professionals to address compliance with applicable environmental, homeland security, and health and safety laws and regulations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. 

Competition 

The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and significant price erosion. We face actual and potential competition from numerous domestic and international companies. Many of these companies have significant engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and financial resources. 

Partial lists of our competitors in the markets in which we participate include: 

CATV Networks . Our primary competitors include Applied Optoelectronics and Finisar at the subsystem level and Applied Optoelectronics and Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations at the component product level. 

Satellite Communications Networks . Our primary competitors include Foxcom and MITEQ, Inc. 

Video Transport Products . Our primary competitors include Evertz and Telecast. 

In addition to the companies listed above, we compete with many research institutions and universities for research funding. We also sell our products to current competitors and companies with the capability of becoming competitors. As the markets for our products grow, new competitors are likely to emerge and current competitors may increase their market share. In the European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;), political and legal arrangements encourage the purchase of EU-produced goods, which places us at a disadvantage against European competitors. 

There are substantial barriers to entry by new competitors across our product lines. These barriers include the large number of existing patents, the time and costs required to develop products, the technical difficulty in manufacturing semiconductor-based products, the lengthy sales and qualification cycles, and the difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled employees with the required scientific and technical backgrounds. We believe that the primary competitive factors within our current markets are product cost, yield, throughput, performance and reliability, breadth of product line, product heritage, customer satisfaction, and customer commitment to competing technologies. Competitors may develop enhancements to or future generations of competitive products that offer superior price and performance characteristics. We believe that in order to remain competitive, we must invest significant financial resources in developing new product features and enhancements and in maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. 

Order Backlog 

EMCORE's product sales are made pursuant to purchase orders, often with short lead times. These orders are subject to revision or cancellation and often are made without deposits. Products typically ship within the same quarter in which a purchase order is received; therefore, our order backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenue or the level of orders for any succeeding period. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , we had approximately 589 &#32;employees, including approximately 330 &#32;international employees that are located primarily in China. This represents an increase of 46 &#32;employees when compared to September 30, 2015 , primarily as a result of an increase in international employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any labor-related work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. 

Competition is intense in the recruiting of personnel in the semiconductor industry. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is essential to our continued success. We are focused on retaining key contributors, developing our staff, and cultivating their commitment to our Company. 

