 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

EnerSys (the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;) is the world&#8217;s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries. We also manufacture, market and distribute related products such as chargers, power equipment, outdoor cabinet enclosures and battery accessories, and we provide related after-market and customer-support services for industrial batteries. We market and sell our products globally to over 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors, independent representatives and our internal sales force. 

We operate and manage our business in three geographic regions of the world&#8212;Americas, EMEA and Asia, as described below. Our business is highly decentralized with manufacturing locations throughout the world. More than half of our manufacturing capacity is located outside of the United States, and approximately 50% of our net sales were generated outside of the United States. The Company has three reportable segments based on geographic regions, defined as follows: 

&#8226; 

Americas , which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, USA; 

&#8226; 

EMEA , which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with our segment headquarters in Zug, Switzerland; and 

&#8226; 

Asia , which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore. 

We have two primary product lines: reserve power and motive power products. Net sales classifications by product line are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Reserve power products &#32;are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or &#8220;UPS&#8221; applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles. Reserve power products also include thermally managed cabinets and enclosures for electronic equipment and batteries. 

&#8226; 

Motive power products &#32;are used to provide power for electric industrial forklifts used in manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling applications as well as mining equipment, diesel locomotive starting and other rail equipment. 

Additionally, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on segment reporting. 

Fiscal Year Reporting 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to our fiscal years, we state &#8220;fiscal&#8221; and the year, as in &#8220;fiscal 2016&#8221;, which refers to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31. The four quarters in fiscal 2016 &#32;ended on June 28, 2015, September 27, 2015, December 27, 2015, and March 31, 2016, respectively. The four quarters in fiscal 2015 &#32;ended on June 29, 2014, September 28, 2014, December 28, 2014, and March 31, 2015, respectively. 

History 

EnerSys and its predecessor companies have been manufacturers of industrial batteries for over 125 years. Morgan Stanley Capital Partners teamed with the management of Yuasa, Inc. in late 2000 to acquire from Yuasa Corporation (Japan) its reserve power and motive power battery businesses in North and South America. We were incorporated in October 2000 for the purpose of completing the Yuasa, Inc. acquisition. On January 1, 2001, we changed our name from Yuasa, Inc. to EnerSys to reflect our focus on the energy systems nature of our businesses. 

In 2004, EnerSys completed its initial public offering (the &#8220;IPO&#8221;) and the Company&#8217;s common stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange, under the trading symbol &#8220;ENS&#8221;. 

Key Developments 

There have been several key stages in the development of our business, which explain to a significant degree our results of operations over the past several years. 

In March 2002, we acquired the reserve power and motive power business of the Energy Storage Group of Invensys plc. (&#8220;ESG&#8221;). Our successful integration of ESG provided global scale in both the reserve and motive power markets. The ESG acquisition also provided us with a further opportunity to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency that, among other initiatives, led to closing underutilized manufacturing plants, distribution facilities, sales offices and eliminating other redundant costs, including staff. 

During fiscal years 2003 through 2015, we made twenty-five acquisitions around the globe. In fiscal 2016, we completed the acquisition of ICS Industries Pty. Ltd. (ICS), headquartered in Melbourne, Australia. ICS is a leading full line shelter designer and manufacturer with installation and maintenance services serving the telecommunications, utilities, datacenter, natural resources and transport industries operating in Australia and serving customers in the Asia Pacific region. 

Our Customers 

We serve over 10,000 customers in over 100 countries, on a direct basis or through our distributors. We are not overly dependent on any particular end market. Our customer base is highly diverse and no single customer accounts for more than 5% of our revenues. 

Our reserve power customers consist of both global and regional customers. These customers are in diverse markets including telecom, UPS, electric utilities, security systems, emergency lighting, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications and space satellites. In addition, we sell our aerospace and defense products in numerous countries, including the governments of the U.S., Germany and the U.K. and to major defense and aviation original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;). 

Our motive power products are sold to a large, diversified customer base. These customers include material handling equipment dealers, OEMs and end users of such equipment. End users include manufacturers, distributors, warehouse operators, retailers, airports, mine operators and railroads. 

Distribution and Services 

We distribute, sell and service reserve and motive power products throughout the world, principally through company-owned sales and service facilities, as well as through independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives. Our company-owned network allows us to offer high-quality service, including preventative maintenance programs and customer support. Our warehouses and service locations enable us to respond quickly to customers in the markets we serve. We believe that the extensive industry experience of our sales organization results in strong long-term customer relationships. 

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

We manufacture and assemble our products at manufacturing facilities located in the Americas, EMEA and Asia. With a view toward projected demand, we strive to optimize and balance capacity at our battery manufacturing facilities globally, while simultaneously minimizing our product cost. By taking a global view of our manufacturing requirements and capacity, we believe we are better able to anticipate potential capacity bottlenecks and equipment and capital funding needs. 

The primary raw materials used to manufacture our products include lead, plastics, steel and copper. We purchase lead from a number of leading suppliers throughout the world. Because lead is traded on the world&#8217;s commodity markets and its price fluctuates daily, we periodically enter into hedging arrangements for a portion of our projected requirements to reduce the volatility of our costs. 

Competition 

The industrial battery market is highly competitive both among competitors who manufacture and sell industrial batteries and among customers who purchase industrial batteries. Our competitors range from development stage companies to large domestic and international corporations. Certain of our competitors produce energy storage products utilizing technologies that we do not possess at this time. We compete primarily on the basis of reputation, product quality, reliability of service, delivery and price. We believe that our products and services are competitively priced. 

Americas 

We believe that we have the largest market share in the Americas industrial battery market. We compete principally with East Penn Manufacturing, Exide Technologies and New Power in both the reserve and motive products markets; and also C&#38;D Technologies Inc., EaglePicher (OM Group), NorthStar Battery, SAFT as well as Chinese producers in the reserve products market. 

EMEA 

We believe that we have the largest market share in the European industrial battery market. Our primary competitors are Exide Technologies, FIAMM, Hoppecke, SAFT as well as Chinese producers in the reserve products market; and Eternity, Exide Technologies, Hoppecke, Midac and TAB in the motive products market. 

Asia 

We have a small share of the fragmented Asian industrial battery market. We compete principally with GS-Yuasa, Shin-Kobe and Zibo Torch in the motive products market; and Amara Raja, China Shoto, Coslight, Exide Industries, Leoch and Narada, in the reserve products market. 

Warranties 

Warranties for our products vary geographically and by product type and are competitive with other suppliers of these types of products. Generally, our reserve power product warranties range from one to twenty years and our motive power product warranties range from one to seven years. The length of our warranties is varied to reflect regional characteristics and competitive influences. In some cases, our warranty period may include a pro rata period, which is typically based around the design life of the product and the application served. Our warranties generally cover defects in workmanship and materials and are limited to specific usage parameters. 

Intellectual Property 

We have numerous patents and patent licenses in the United States and other jurisdictions but do not consider any one patent to be material to our business. From time to time, we apply for patents on new inventions and designs, but we believe that the growth of our business will depend primarily upon the quality of our products and our relationships with our customers, rather than the extent of our patent protection. 

We believe we are leaders in thin plate pure lead technology ("TPPL"). Some aspects of this technology may be patented in the future. We believe that a significant capital investment would be required by any party desiring to produce products using TPPL technology for our markets. 

We own or possess exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and other rights to use a number of trademarks in various jurisdictions. We have obtained registrations for many of these trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions. Our various trademark registrations currently have durations of approximately 10 to 20 years, varying by mark and jurisdiction of registration and may be renewable. We endeavor to keep all of our material registrations current. We believe that many such rights and licenses are important to our business by helping to develop strong brand-name recognition in the marketplace. 

Seasonality 

Our business generally does not experience significant quarterly fluctuations in net sales as a result of weather or other trends that can be directly linked to seasonality patterns, but historically our fourth quarter is our best quarter with higher revenues and generally more working days and our second quarter is the weakest due to the summer holiday season in Western Europe and Americas. 

Product and Process Development 

Our product and process development efforts are focused on the creation and optimization of new battery products using existing technologies, which, in certain cases, differentiate our stored energy solutions from that of our competition. We allocate our resources to the following key areas: 

&#8226; 

the design and development of new products; 

&#8226; 

optimizing and expanding our existing product offering; 

&#8226; 

waste and scrap reduction; 

&#8226; 

production efficiency and utilization; 

&#8226; 

capacity expansion without additional facilities; and 

&#8226; 

quality attribute maximization. 

Employees 

At March 31, 2016, we had approximately 9,400 employees. Of these employees, approximately 29% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that did not exceed twelve months were approximately 7% of the total workforce. The average term of these agreements is two years, with the longest term being three years. We consider our employee relations to be good. We did not experience any significant labor unrest or disruption of production during fiscal 2016 . 

Environmental Matters 

In the manufacture of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, we are required to comply with the regulation issued from the European Union called Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or &#8220;REACH,&#8221; that came into force on June 1, 2007. Under the regulation, companies which manufacture or import more than one ton of a covered chemical substance per year are required to register it in a central database administered by the European Chemicals Agency. REACH requires a registration over a period of 11 years. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time, we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, can bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or their exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored, transported or disposed of by us or contained in our products. 

Sumter, South Carolina 

We currently are responsible for certain environmental obligations at our former battery facility in Sumter, South Carolina, that predate our ownership of this facility. This battery facility was closed in 2001 and is separate from our current metal fabrication facility in Sumter. We have a reserve for this facility that totaled $1.1 million as of March 31, 2016 . Based on current information, we believe this reserve is adequate to satisfy our environmental liabilities at this facility. 

Environmental and safety certifications 

Sixteen of our facilities in the Americas, EMEA and Asia are certified to ISO 14001 standards. ISO 14001 is a globally recognized, voluntary program that focuses on the implementation, maintenance and continual improvement of an environmental management system and the improvement of environmental performance. Seven facilities in Europe and one in Africa are certified to OHSAS 18001 standards. OHSAS 18001 is a globally recognized occupational health and safety management systems standard. 

Quality Systems 

We utilize a global strategy for quality management systems, policies and procedures, the basis of which is the ISO 9001:2008 standard, which is a worldwide recognized quality standard. We believe in the principles of this standard and reinforce this by requiring mandatory compliance for all manufacturing, sales and service locations globally that are registered to the ISO 9001 standard. This strategy enables us to provide consistent quality products and services to meet our customers&#8217; needs. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov . You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s public reference room, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. 

Our Internet address is http://www.enersys.com . We make available free of charge on http://www.enersys.com &#32;our annual, quarterly and current reports, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

