 Item 1. Business. 

THE COMPANY 

Entegris, Inc., referred in this report as Entegris or the Company, is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and supplier of yield-enhancing materials and solutions for advanced manufacturing processes in the semiconductor and other high-technology industries. Our products and materials are used to manufacture semiconductors, micro-electromechanical systems, flat panel displays, light emitting diodes or LEDs, high-purity chemicals, such as photoresists, solar cells, gas lasers, optical and magnetic storage devices, and critical components for aerospace, glass manufacturing and biomedical applications. We sell our products worldwide through a direct sales force and through selected distributors. 

The Company was incorporated in Delaware in March 2005 in connection with a strategic merger of equals transaction between Entegris, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and Mykrolis Corporation, a Delaware corporation. On April 30, 2014, the Company acquired ATMI, Inc., a Delaware Corporation based in Danbury, CT, referred to throughout this report as ATMI. This transaction is referred to alternatively as the Merger or the ATMI acquisition in this report. See OUR HISTORY below. 

We offer a diverse product portfolio that includes approximately 20,000 &#32;standard and customized products which include both unit driven and capital expense driven products. As a result of the Merger, unit-driven products now comprise approximately 80% of our combined sales, with the remaining balance being capital driven products. Our unit-driven products are consumed or exhausted during the customer&#8217;s manufacturing process and rely on the level of semiconductor and other manufacturing activity to drive growth. Our unit-driven product class includes membrane-based liquid filters, resin-based gas purifiers, wafer shippers, disk-shipping containers and test assembly and packaging products, implant gas storage and delivery systems, copper electroplating materials, advanced precursor materials for thin film deposition and photoresist strip and post chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) or CMP cleaning materials and consumable graphite and silicon carbide components. Capital expense driven products, which generally have a lifetime of 18 months or more, rely on the expansion of manufacturing capacity to drive growth and include our fluid management components, systems and subsystems that transfer, monitor, and control process liquids used in the semiconductor manufacturing processes, gas filtration and purification components, systems and subsystems that remove contaminants at equipment and factory level for manufacturing, our process carriers that protect the integrity of in-process wafers and graphite, silicon carbide and specialty coated components for manufacturing equipment. Unit-driven products accounted for approximately &#32; 78% , 74% , and 66% &#32;of our net sales for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, while capital expense-driven products accounted for approximately 22% , 26% &#32;and 34% &#32;of our net sales for the fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Our Internet address is www.entegris.com . On this web site, under the &#8220;Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings&#8221; section, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our annual, quarterly, and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K; our proxy statements; any amendments to those reports or statements, and Form SD. All such filings are available on our web site free of charge. The SEC also maintains a web site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on our website, and any other website, as referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. 

SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY BACKGROUND 

Semiconductors, or integrated circuits, are the building blocks of today&#8217;s electronics and the backbone of the information age. The market for semiconductors has grown significantly over past decades. This trend is expected to continue as the advanced connectivity of devices to the internet or the &#8220;internet of things&#8221;, gathers increasing momentum. We believe that the connected devices, ranging from everyday devices, such as light bulbs and home heating thermostats interconnected through wireless technology to the internet and the cloud to permit remote monitoring and control of the device, to connected automobiles that offer a new level of safety and comfort to vehicle operators, will drive growth in the demand for semiconductors and create significant opportunities for our products. This new trend will supplement existing demand driven by applications in data processing, wireless communications, broadband infrastructure, personal computers, handheld electronic devices and other consumer electronics. 

The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process that consists of numerous and repeated process operations. The process starts with the delivery of raw silicon wafers from wafer manufacturers to semiconductor manufacturers and requires hundreds of highly complex and sensitive manufacturing steps, during which a variety of materials are repeatedly applied to the silicon wafer to build the integrated circuits on the wafer surface. We offer a broad range of products to purify, transport and monitor these critical process materials during the manufacturing process. We provide advanced chemical materials used in many 

of these process steps and offer a broad range of products to purify, transport and monitor these critical process materials during the manufacturing process. The process operations that rely most heavily on our products and chemical materials are described below. 

Deposition. &#32;Deposition refers to placing layers of insulating or conductive materials on a wafer surface in thin films that make up the circuit elements of semiconductor devices. The two main deposition processes are physical vapor deposition, where a thin film is deposited on a wafer surface in a low-pressure gas environment, and chemical vapor deposition, where a thin film is deposited on a wafer surface using a gas medium and a chemical bonding process. In addition, electro-plating technology is used for the deposition of low resistance conductive materials such as copper. The control of uniformity and thickness of these films through our advanced precursor materials and electro-plating chemicals used during the process as well as our filtration and purification products, which remove defects and contaminants from materials are critical to the performance of the semiconductor circuit and, consequently, the manufacturing yield. 

Chemical Mechanical Planarization (CMP). &#32;The CMP process flattens, or planarizes, the topography of the surface of the wafer after deposition by use of mechanical force, CMP polishing pads and slurries containing abrasive particles in a chemical mixture. The purpose of CMP is to permit the patterning of small features on the resulting smooth surface by the photolithography process. We offer a broad range of products used by semiconductor manufacturers during and immediately following the CMP process. Our PlanarClean&#174; and ESC-784 formulated chemical materials remove defects from wafer surfaces after the CMP process, and passivate the surface to prevent subsequent corrosion. Our filtration and purification systems are used to filter the liquid slurries and cleans chemistries to remove oversized particles and contaminants that can cause defects on a wafer&#8217;s surface, while not affecting the functionality of the solutions. Our Planarcore&#174; polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) roller brushes are used in conjunction with our cleans chemistries to clean the wafer after completion of the CMP process to prepare the wafer for subsequent operations and our Planargem&#174; pad conditioners are used to prepare the surface of the CMP polishing pad prior to every polishing cycle. 

Photolithography. &#32;Photolithography is the process step that defines the patterns of the circuits to be built on the chip. Before photolithography, a wafer is pre-coated with photoresist, a light-sensitive film composed of ultra-high purity chemicals in liquid form. The photoresist is exposed to specific forms of radiation, such as ultraviolet light, electrons or x-rays, to form patterns that eventually become the circuitry on the chip. This process is repeated many times, using different patterns and interconnects between layers to form the complex, multi-layer circuitry in a semiconductor chip. As device geometries decrease and wafer sizes increase, it is even more critical that these photoresists are dispensed onto the wafer with accurate thickness and uniformity, as well as with extremely low levels of contamination, so that manufacturers can achieve acceptable yields in the manufacturing process. Our liquid filtration and liquid dispense systems play a critical role in assuring the pure, accurate and uniform dispense of photoresists onto the wafer. In addition, ST and AP photoresist strip cleaning materials are proprietary chemistries used for negative resist removal, and our gas microcontamination control systems eliminate airborne amine contaminants that can disrupt effective photolithography processes. 

Etch and Resist Strip. &#32;Etch is the process of selectively removing precise areas of thin films that have been deposited on the surface of a wafer. It is used in conjunction with photolithography to define the multi-layer circuitry on a semiconductor chip. The photolithography process defines the patterns that make up the circuitry. During etch, specific areas of the film not covered by photoresist are removed to leave a desired circuit pattern. After the etch process, the hardened resist needs to be completely removed. Advanced etch and resist strip applications require our ST-250&#8482; and TitanKlean&#174; formulated solutions to remove photo resists and post-etch residues, and our gas filters and purifiers to help assure the purity of the process gas streams used in the etch process. As more and more materials are introduced at very advanced technology nodes, there is an increased need for wet chemistries that are capable of removing one material without removing anything else. This is driving demand for selective wet etch formulations. 

Ion Implant. &#32;Ion implantation provides a means for introducing impurities into the silicon crystal, typically into selected areas defined by the photolithographic process. This selective implanting of ions into defined areas creates electrically conductive areas that form the transistors of the integrated circuits. Ion implanters have the ability to implant selected elements into the silicon wafers at precise locations and depths by bombarding the silicon surface with a precisely controlled beam of electrically charged ions of specific atomic mass and energy. These ions are embedded into the silicon crystal structure, changing the electrical properties of the silicon. The precision of ion implantation techniques permits customers to achieve the necessary control of this doping process to construct up to 500 billion transistors of uniform characteristics on a 300mm wafer. Since these transistors are the starting point of all subsequent process steps, repeatability, uniformity and yield are extremely important. Our SDS&#174; and VAC&#174; gas delivery systems assure the safe, effective and efficient delivery of the toxic gases necessary for the implant process. In addition, our proprietary low temperature plasma coating process for core components are critical elements of ion implantation equipment. 

Wet Cleaning. &#32;Ultra-high purity chemicals and photoresists of precise composition are used to clean the wafers, to pattern circuit images and to remove photoresists after etch. Before processes such as photoresist coating, thin film deposition, ion implantation, diffusion and oxidation, and after processes such as ion implantation and etch, the photoresists must be stripped off, and the wafer cleaned in multiple steps using chemical processes. To maintain manufacturing yields and avoid defective products, the cleaning chemicals must be maintained at very high purity levels without the presence of foreign material such as particles, ions or organic contaminants. As described above, our proprietary formulated cleaning chemistries are used in these wet cleaning processes and our liquid filters and purifiers are used to assure the purity of these chemicals. 

Our wafer and reticle carriers are high-purity &#8220;micro-environments&#8221; which carry wafers between each of the above process steps, protecting them from damage and contamination during these transport operations. Our fluid handling components assure the delivery of pure liquid chemicals to each of these process steps. Front-end wafer processing can involve hundreds of steps and take several weeks. As a result, a batch of 25 fully processed wafers, the standard number of wafers that can be transported in one of our 200 mm and 300 mm products, can be worth several million dollars. Since significant value is added to the wafer during each successive manufacturing step, it is essential that the wafer be well protected to minimize the risk of any damage. Thus, in the case of wafer carriers, precise wafer positioning, highly reliable and predictable cassette interface dimensions and advanced materials are crucial. The failure to prevent damage to wafers can severely impact integrated circuit performance, render an integrated circuit inoperable or disrupt manufacturing operations. Our products enable semiconductor manufacturers to: minimize contamination (semiconductor processing is now so sensitive that ionic contamination in certain processing chemicals is measured in parts per trillion); protect semiconductor devices from electrostatic discharge and shock; avoid process interruptions; prevent damage or abrasion to wafers and materials during automated processing caused by contact with other materials or equipment; prevent damage due to abrasion or vibration of work-in-process and finished goods during transportation to and from customer and supplier facilities; and eliminate the dangers associated with handling toxic chemicals. 

Future Trends . Semiconductor manufacturing has become increasingly complex in recent years as new materials and new process technologies have been introduced to enhance device performance and achieve productivity gains. We expect this trend to accelerate in future years. This increasing complexity of semiconductor devices has substantially increased the cost of semiconductor plant infrastructure and equipment and has made achieving target yields more difficult for semiconductor manufacturers adopting advanced processes. Fabrication of wafers at the advanced technology nodes requires larger diameter wafers and finer line widths that are more costly and more complex to manufacture than smaller wafer sizes and larger line widths. In addition, these advanced processes create new contamination and material compatibility risks, rendering larger wafers more vulnerable to damage or contamination. All of these difficulties increase the need and demand for our advanced materials and contamination control products. In response to the challenges faced by our semiconductor customers, we have been moving aggressively to collaborate with semiconductor equipment companies and device manufacturers to synthesize new materials, to develop enhanced methods of filtration and purification and to introduce advanced materials packaging and materials monitoring capabilities to address the challenges of the advanced technology nodes. These collaborations often include the outsourcing of the design and manufacture of innovative materials management and liquid delivery, measurement, control and purification systems to Entegris. Also our semiconductor customers have become increasingly focused on materials management solutions that enable them to safely store, handle, process and transport critical materials throughout the manufacturing process to minimize the potential for damage or degradation to their materials and to protect their investment in processed wafers. We believe that these trends provide opportunities for our advanced chemical, materials management and polymer engineering expertise and our advanced tool design capabilities to enable us to provide our semiconductor customers with innovative materials, materials management, purification, wafer transport, and process solutions enabling them to successfully manage this growing complexity. 

Many of the processes used to manufacture semiconductors are also used to manufacture photovoltaic cells, LEDs, flat panel displays and magnetic storage devices resulting in the need for similar filtration, purification, control and measurement capabilities. We seek to leverage our products, technologies and expertise in serving semiconductor applications to address these important market opportunities. 

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 

Our objective is to be a leading global provider of advanced materials and solutions used in processing and manufacturing in high-technology industries. We intend to benefit from our market leading position and strengthen our core business in the semiconductor industry. We will also build upon our position as a worldwide developer, manufacturer and supplier of advanced specialty materials, filtration and purification solutions, delivery systems, and materials packaging solutions used by semiconductor device manufacturers to grow our business in other high value-added manufacturing process markets. Our strategy includes the following key elements: 

Technology Leadership. &#32;With the emergence of smaller and more powerful semiconductor devices, and the deployment of new materials and processes to produce them, we believe there is a need for greater materials management within the semiconductor 

fabrication process. We seek to extend our technology by developing advanced products that address more stringent requirements for greater purification, protection and transport of high value-added materials and for contamination control, fluid delivery and monitoring, and system integration. We also support our customers&#8217; operations by developing advanced chemical materials for use in their critical fabrication processes. We continuously improve our products as our customers&#8217; needs evolve. For example, we have introduced sub-10 nanometer filtration products, advanced deposition materials for next generation transistor and interconnect technologies, advanced reticle pods for extreme ultra violet or EUV photolithography applications, advanced 300mm wafer carriers and advanced e-chucks for implant equipment to meet the rigorous demands of the advanced technology nodes faced by our customers. 

Global Presence. &#32;We have established a global infrastructure of design, manufacturing, distribution, service and technical support facilities to meet the needs of our customers. As semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers have become increasingly global, they have required that suppliers offer comprehensive local repair, customer and technical support services. In response to this trend, we have, for example, expanded our operations in Taiwan and South Korea to provide manufacturing capabilities to support our important customers in these regions, we have established sales and service offices in China in anticipation of a growing semiconductor manufacturing base in that country and we have transferred customer support and logistics activities to local regions, including our expanded presence in Singapore, to enhance our global and regional management of supply chain and manufacturing processes, and we maintain advanced technology centers in Taiwan and South Korea. We maintain our customer relationships through a combination of direct sales and support personnel and selected independent sales representatives and distributors in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. 

Operational Excellence . We have also established leading edge manufacturing plants located in the United States, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan that possess the advanced manufacturing capabilities described under Manufacturing &#32;below. We have consolidated management of these plants under a single global operations organization with a charter to drive these plants to achieve world class manufacturing and quality standards. Our strategy is to develop our advanced manufacturing capabilities into a competitive advantage with our customers through implementation of the following priorities: 

&#8226; 

use of manufacturing equipment and facilities incorporating leading edge technology including advanced clean-room and cleaning procedures; 

&#8226; 

implementation of standardized manufacturing systems stressing optimization of overall equipment operational effectiveness, predictive maintenance, and direct labor productivity; 

&#8226; 

implementation of automated quality systems that provide both process monitoring and process control throughout the manufacturing process as well as predictive quality data allowing us to predict and remediate potential quality excursions before they occur; 

&#8226; 

excellence of supply chain management systems that assure a supply of high quality raw materials that is reliable and responsive to the changing requirements for our products; 

&#8226; 

conduct of manufacturing operations so as to assure the safety of our employees and of the individuals using our products; and 

&#8226; 

a streamlined manufacturing organization well-aligned internally as well as with our customers that is capable of rapid design and development of prototypes of new and derivative products; rapid response to customer feedback concerning prototypes and ability to quickly commercialize and ramp production of prototypes accepted by our customers. 

Strong Customer Base. &#32;We have established solid ongoing relationships with many of the world's leading semiconductor manufacturers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and semiconductor materials suppliers. We intend to continue to leverage these relationships to participate in significant collaborations with our customers at the product design stage, which will facilitate our ability to introduce new products and applications that meet our customers&#8217; needs. For example, we work with our key customers at the pre-design and design stages to identify and respond to their requests for current and future generations of products for emerging applications requiring cleaner materials as well as systems that maintain the integrity and stability of materials during transport through the manufacturing process. To respond to these opportunities we have developed advanced filtration and purification solutions as well a new packaging solutions based on process challenges identified by our customers. We believe that our large customer base will continue to be an important source of new product development opportunities that we intend to emphasize. 

Comprehensive and Diverse Product Offerings. &#32;The semiconductor manufacturing industry is characterized by rapid technological changes and intense competition, especially at the current time when the imperative of increased productivity is driving the move to the advanced technology nodes with the technological challenges inherent in these advances. We believe that semiconductor manufacturers are seeking suppliers who can provide a broad range of reliable, flexible and cost-effective products and materials, as well as the technological and application design expertise necessary to deliver other effective solutions. Our comprehensive offering of materials and components enables us to meet a broad range of customer needs and provide a single source of flexible product offerings for semiconductor device and capital equipment manufacturers as they seek to consolidate their supplier 

relationships to a smaller select group with comprehensive capabilities. We believe our offering of consumable products and materials, creates a competitive advantage because we offer a comprehensive array of solutions to these challenges at the advanced technology nodes. 

Adjacent Markets. &#32;We leverage our accumulated expertise in the semiconductor industry by developing products for applications that employ similar production processes that utilize materials integrity management, high-purity fluids and integrated dispense system technologies. Outside of the semiconductor industry, our products are used in other manufacturing processes, including the manufacturing of flat panel displays, fuel cell components, high-purity chemicals, solar cells, optical magnetic storage devices and products for life sciences. We plan to continue to identify and develop products that address materials management and advanced materials processing applications where fluid management plays a critical role. We believe that by utilizing our technology to provide manufacturing solutions across multiple industries, we are able to increase the total available market for our products and reduce, to an extent, our exposure to the cyclicality of any particular market. 

Strategic Acquisitions, Partnerships and Related Transactions . We will continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and business partnerships that enable us to address gaps in our product offerings, secure new customers, diversify into complementary product markets and broaden our technological capabilities and product offerings. Our acquisition of ATMI, Inc. in April 2014 and of Jetalon Solutions, Inc. in April 2013 are examples of this strategy. ATMI brings a whole new portfolio of technologies and materials products to serve our semiconductor customers while Jetalon Solutions reinforces our presence in the semiconductor industry by providing new and complementary sensing and control technologies. Further, as the dynamics of the markets that we serve shift, we will reevaluate the ability of our existing businesses to provide value-added solutions to those markets in a manner that contributes to achieving our objectives; in the event that we conclude that a business is not able to do this, we expect to restructure or replace that business. The sale of our cleaning equipment business in 2008 is an example of this strategy. Finally, we are continuously evaluating opportunities for strategic alliances and joint development efforts with key customers and other industry leaders. 

OUR SEGMENTS 

We design, manufacture and market our products through two business segments: (i) our critical materials handling segment, which offers a wide range of products that purify, monitor and deliver critical liquids and gases to the semiconductor manufacturing process and similar manufacturing processes as well as microenvironments products to preserve the integrity of wafers, reticles and electronic components at various stages of transport, processing and storage and materials, components and services to a wide range of customers in the semiconductor industry and in adjacent and unrelated industries; and (ii) our electronic materials segment which offers a wide range of materials and materials delivery systems to support the advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes. Each segment has dedicated manufacturing resources managed by our global operations organization, and is composed of product-focused business units. Each business segment has its own dedicated marketing and engineering, research and development resources. The following is a detailed description of our two segments: 

CRITICAL MATERIALS HANDLING SEGMENT 

Liquid Microcontamination Control Products . Liquid processing occurs during multiple manufacturing steps including photolithography, deposition, planarization and surface etching and cleaning. The fluids that are used include various mixtures of acids, bases, solvents, slurries and photochemicals, which in turn are used over a broad range of operating conditions. The design and performance of our liquid filtration and purification products are critical to the semiconductor manufacturing process because they directly reduce defects and improve the manufacturing yield. Specially designed proprietary filters remove nanometer-sized particles and bubbles from the different fluid streams that are used in the manufacturing process. Some of our filters are constructed with ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene flat sheet membranes that offer improved bubble clearance and gel removal to prevent defects in the wafers that occur if these elements are not removed. Our low hold-up volume disposable filters, with flat sheet membranes, use our Connectology &#174; &#32;&#32;technology to allow filter changes in less than a minute, significantly faster than conventional filters, to reduce the amount of expensive chemicals lost each time a filter is changed and to minimize operator exposure to hazardous solvents and vapors during change out. In addition to the filtration of particles from fluids, we have also expanded our offerings for chemical purification, which targets the removal of specific molecules from a process chemical, to improve yield in processes such as wet cleaning. 

Microenvironments Products . Our microenvironment products fall into three sub-categories, wafer and reticle handling products, wafer shipping products and data storage products. We are a global producer of wafer and reticle handling products. We offer a wide variety of products that hold and position wafers as they travel between each piece of equipment used in the automated semiconductor manufacturing process. These specialized carriers provide precise wafer positioning, wafer protection and highly reliable and predictable cassette interfaces in automated fabs. Semiconductor manufacturers rely on our products to improve yields by protecting wafers from abrasion, degradation and contamination during the manufacturing process. We provide standard and 

customized products that meet a spectrum of industry standards and customers&#8217; wafer handling needs including front opening unified pods or FOUPs, wafer transport and process carriers, standard mechanical interface or SMIF pods and work-in-process boxes. To meet our customers&#8217; varying wafer processing and transport needs, we offer wafer process carriers in a variety of materials, including advanced polymeric materials, and in sizes ranging from 100 mm through 300 mm. In addition, we offer FOUPs for developmental 450 mm wafers. We also provide mask and reticle handling products, including reticle SMIF pods for the protection of extremely valuable and contamination-sensitive lithography reticles. We are also a global provider of critical shipping products that preserve the integrity of raw silicon wafers as they are transported from wafer manufacturers to semiconductor manufacturers or finished wafers shipped to back end processors. We lead the market with our extensive, high-volume line of Ultrapak &#174; &#32;and Crystalpak &#174; &#32;products which are supplied to wafer manufacturers in a full range of sizes covering 100, 125, 150 and 200 mm wafers. We also offer a full-pitch, front-opening shipping box, or FOSB, for the transportation and automated interface of 300 mm wafers. For developmental 450 mm wafers, we offer a Single Wafer Shipper, a Multi-Application Carrier, or MAC, and a FOUP. 

For the data storage market we offer products and solutions for magnetic disks and the read/write heads used to read and write today&#8217;s higher density disks. &#32; Finally, we offer chip and matrix trays as well as carriers for bare die handling and integrated circuits that are compatible with industry standards, are available in a wide range of sizes with various feature sets and that offer dimensional stability and permanent electrostatic discharge protection. 

Fluid Management Solutions Products . We offer chemical management and distribution systems that assure the consistent, clean and safe delivery of sophisticated chemicals to the point-of-use in the semiconductor fab. Most of these products are made from perfluoroalkoxy or PFA, a fluoropolymer resin widely used in the semiconductor industry because of its high purity and inertness to chemicals. The innovative design and reliable performance of our products under the most stringent of process conditions has made us a leader in high-purity fluid transfer products. Both semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor OEMs use our chemical management and distribution products. Our comprehensive product line provides our customers with a single-source provider for their process chemical management needs throughout the manufacturing process. Our chemical management and distribution products include valves, fittings, tubing, pipe, custom fabricated products and associated connection systems for high-purity chemical applications. 

Our proprietary photochemical filtration and dispense systems integrate our patented two-stage, filter device and valve control technologies. Our two-stage technology permits the filtering and dispense functions to operate independently so that filtering and dispensing of photochemicals can occur at different rates, reducing the differential pressure across the filter, conserving expensive photochemicals and resulting in reduced defects in wafers. As described above, we offer a line of proprietary filters specifically designed to efficiently connect with these systems. Our patented digital valve control technology improves chemical uniformity on wafers and improves ease of optimized system operation. In addition, our integrated high-precision liquid dispense systems enable uniform application of photoresists for the spin-coating process, where uniformity is measured in units of Angstroms, a tiny fraction of the thickness of a human hair. 

We offer a wide variety of measurement and control products for high-purity and corrosive applications. For electronic measurement and control of liquids, we provide a complete line of pressure and flow measurement and control products as well as all-plastic capacitance sensors for leak detection, valve position, chemical level and other measurements. We also offer mechanical gauge pressure measurement products. The acquisition of Jetalon Solutions added metrology and sensor products that use refractive index technology to achieve greater precision in real-time chemical blending, which is increasingly critical in applications where minute variations of process fluid concentration levels can adversely impact manufacturing yields. In semiconductor manufacturing, Jetalon Solutions products monitor and control liquid concentrations in all wet processing areas including wafer surface preparation and cleaning, photolithography, CMP, post-CMP cleaning, and copper electroplating. In the biopharmaceutical market, these solutions are used in both upstream and downstream processing in applications such as real-time in-line concentration monitoring of media and buffer preparations. This is an area of increasing interest for biopharmaceutical applications given the growing trend from batch manufacturing to real-time or continuous manufacturing processes. 

Semiconductor process chemicals spend most of their time in contact with fluid storage containers, so it is critical for these containers to resist degradation by these process chemicals and avoid contributing contaminants to the chemicals. We offer rigid wall HPDE blow molded drums and rotationally molded composite containers and associated connection systems for semiconductor process chemicals in sizes ranging from 20 to 2,000 liters. We also offer container liners and container assemblies, such as NOWPak &#174; &#32;and BrightPak&#8482;, in sizes ranging from 1 to 200 liters, for high-purity liquid materials packaging and dispensing systems for advanced photolithography applications as well as for flat-panel display and liquid containment and delivery systems. 

Specialty Materials Products . These products are made from specialized graphite or silicon carbide. Our Poco Graphite products sold to the semiconductor industry are used for critical components for semiconductor manufacturing equipment at various stages of the semiconductor manufacturing process including chemical vapor deposition or CVD, where our expendable graphite chamber 

liners and shower heads are critical components used in the CVD chamber; dry or plasma etch, where our consumable graphite components deliver, baffle and confine the process gases during the etch process; and ion implant, where our consumable graphite components are critical elements of ion implantation equipment. In addition, our POCO &#174; premium graphite is used to make precision consumable electrodes for electrical discharge machining, a non-contact precision thermoelectric machining process for hard and exotic metals and other materials. Poco Graphite also manufactures a number of graphite hot glass contact materials for use in the manufacture of glass containers. Finally, Poco Graphite manufactures a number of graphite consumable products for various industrial applications including bushings and thrust washers for aerospace applications, substrates for industrial print heads, components for scan heads in industrial optical applications, cathodes for fuel cells and materials for manufacturers of artificial heart valves for human implantation. 

We also offer a variety of high-performance specialty coatings for critical components used in semiconductor and other high-technology manufacturing operations. These components, often in highly complex geometries, are coated by means of a proprietary low-temperature, plasma-assisted CVD process to provide corrosion and abrasion resistance and desired conductivity and hydrophobicity properties. We also provide complex assemblies such as electrostatic chucks for ion implant equipment, where our coatings prevent contamination of the process. Our coatings are also used in other high-technology applications such as aerospace optical components. 

ELECTRONIC MATERIALS SEGMENT 

Specialty Gas Solutions Products . &#32;Among the primary issues for semiconductor manufacturers are production throughput, cost, and safety because of the hazardous properties of the gases used in the ion implant processes. Our patented Safe Delivery Source &#174; &#32;(SDS &#174; ) solutions use a standard gas cylinder containing a carbon-based adsorbent material. The cylinder is filled with gas under conditions such that the gas is adsorbed onto the adsorbent material at sub-atmospheric pressure. Sub-atmospheric storage of hazardous gases minimizes potential leaks of gas during transportation and use, thus providing significant safety and environmental improvements over traditional high-pressure and mechanical cylinders. In addition, SDS products allow more process gas to be stored in the cylinder, providing significantly higher rates of productivity than traditional methods of gas delivery used in ion implantation manufacturing processes. These advantages have led the majority of significant semiconductor manufacturers to adopt this technology as the industry standard for dopant gas delivery. Materials packaged in SDS systems include primarily arsine, phosphine, germanium and boron trifluoride. The third generation of SDS products, called SDS &#174; 3, maintains all the inherent safety features of previous generation SDS products, but dramatically increases the gas storage capacity by using a new adsorbent. The two to three times capacity improvement over the previous SDS products allows ion implanter users to reduce tool down time, resulting in significant cost savings for our customers. We also offer VAC &#174; (Vacuum Actuated Cylinders), a complementary technology to SDS where select implant gases are stored under high pressure but delivered sub-atmospherically. 

Our Wafergard &#174; particle and molecular filtration products filter the gas entering the process chamber in order to eliminate system and wafer problems due to particulate, atmospheric and chemical contaminants. These filters are able to retain all particles 0.003 microns and larger. Our metal filters, such as stainless steel and nickel filters, reduce out gassing and improve corrosion resistance. Our GateKeeper &#174; &#32;purifiers chemically react with and absorb contaminants, such as oxygen and water, to prevent contamination, and our Chambergard&#8482; vent diffusers reduce particle contamination and processing cycle times. We offer a wide variety of gas purification products to meet the stringent requirements of semiconductor processing. Our GateKeeper &#174; &#32;Gas Purification Systems contain dual-resin beds, providing a continuous supply of purified gas without process interruption. These gas purification systems are capable of handling higher flow rates and longer duty cycles than cartridge purifiers. Our product line also includes filter housings and Vaporsorb&#8482; hybrid media chemical air filters which purify air entering tool enclosures and remove airborne molecular contaminants. 

Advanced Deposition Materials Products . &#32;&#32;Several processes for depositing thin films such as CVD and atomic layer deposition (ALD) processes are enabled by advanced liquid, gaseous and solid precursors. We believe that we are well-positioned for the incorporation of ALD processes by the semiconductor industry with our ProE-Vap &#174; &#32;ampoule. This proprietary container allows for reliable delivery of low volatility solid precursors required for processes that demand ALD, like high-k gates. We have also successfully adapted the carbon adsorption technology used in SDS and incorporated it into products for semiconductor deposition processes marketed under the SAGE &#174; &#32;brand. These applications include: low-k plasma-enhanced deposition, or PE-CVD, processes using low-k materials, pre-metal dielectric high-density plasma, or HDP-CVD, and films using phosphine gases and thermal deposition processes using germane gases. Given the increasing need for new materials used in leading edge semiconductor processes, we are also developing a portfolio of new deposition products to meet the future needs of our customers. 

Surface Preparation and Integration Products . &#32;We believe that we are a market leader in copper electroplating materials and processes in semiconductor development and manufacturing with our Viaform &#174; &#32;(a trademark of Enthone Inc.) product, which includes inorganic and proprietary organic molecules that provide the wiring for copper interconnects allowing manufacturers to eliminate processing steps. We also focus on the total copper integration scheme with post-chemical mechanical planarization 

(CMP) cleaning solutions. Our ST and AP photoresist strip and post-CMP cleaning materials are proprietary chemistries used for applications such as semiconductor post-etch residue removal, wafer etching, organics removal, negative resist removal, edge bead removal, and corrosion prevention. In addition to filters for the purification of CMP liquid chemical slurries, we offer a line of consumable PVA roller brush products to clean the wafer following the CMP process. Our unique Planarcore&#8482; &#174; &#32;PVA brush is molded on the core to allow easy installation that reduces tool downtime and a dimensionally stable product that provides consistent wafer-to-wafer cleaning performance. In addition, our Planargem &#174; pad conditioners, based on our silicon carbide capabilities, offer unique preparation solutions for each distinct CMP pad application, with significant improvement in CMP pad life. 

Other Entegris products . &#32; We also offer our eVOLV&#8482; wet chemical process to recycle electronic waste and recover precious metals and other high value materials from components and printed circuit boards and our BrightBlack &#174; &#32;precision engineered carbon materials with high purity, high capacity, small tunable pores and excellent mechanical durability for gas capture, storage and release. 

WORLDWIDE APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT AND FIELD SUPPORT CAPABILITIES 

We provide strong technical support to our customers through local service groups and engineers consisting of field applications engineers, technical service groups, applications development groups and training capabilities. Our field applications engineers, located in the United States and approximately ten other countries, work directly with our customers on product qualification and process improvements in their facilities. In addition, in response to customer needs for local technical service and fast turnaround time, we maintain regional applications laboratories and technology centers. Our applications laboratories maintain process equipment that simulate customers&#8217; applications and industry test standards and provide product evaluation and technical support for our customers; our regional technology centers collaborate with our customers to develop materials to meet their most advanced semiconductor manufacturing challenges. 

OUR CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS 

Within the semiconductor market, our major customer groups include semiconductor device manufacturers, OEMs that provide equipment to semiconductor device manufacturers, gas and chemical manufacturing companies and manufacturers of high-precision electronics. 

Our most significant customers based on sales in 2015 &#32;include virtually all of the leading semiconductor device makers and equipment makers and leading wafer grower companies. We also sell our products to flat panel display OEMs, materials suppliers and manufacturers. The major manufacturers for flat panel displays and flat panel display equipment are concentrated in Japan, Korea and other parts of Asia. 

In our other high-technology markets, our customers include manufacturers and suppliers in the solar and life science industries and, for our Poco Graphite products, electrical discharge machining customers, glass container manufacturers, aerospace manufacturers and manufacturers of biomedical implantation devices. 

In 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , net sales to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 44% , 42% &#32;and 34% , respectively, of combined net sales. In 2015 &#32;and 2014 , one individual customer accounted for approximately 12% &#32;and 14% &#32;of our net sales, respectively. In 2013, no single customer accounted for ten percent or more of net sales. International net sales represented 77% , 75% &#32;and 71% , respectively, of net sales in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 . Approximately 2,400 &#32;customers purchased products from us during 2015 . 

We may enter into supply agreements with our customers to govern the conduct of our business with our customers, including the manufacture of our products. These agreements generally have a term of one to three years, but do not contain any long-term purchase commitments. Instead, we work closely with our customers to develop non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders. However, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for a number of reasons beyond our control. 

SALES AND MARKETING 

We sell our products worldwide, primarily through our direct sales force and strategic independent distributors located in offices in all major semiconductor markets, as well as through independent distributors elsewhere. As of December 31, 2015 , our sales and marketing force consisted of 526 employees worldwide. Our direct sales force is also supplemented by independent distributors, sales representatives and agents, which are directed to specific market segments. 

Our unique capabilities and long-standing industry relationships have provided us with the opportunity for significant collaboration with our customers at the product design stage, which has facilitated our ability to introduce new materials and new solutions that meet our customers&#8217; needs. We are constantly identifying for our customers the variety of materials, purification and process control challenges that may be addressed by our products. Our sales representatives provide our customers with worldwide support and information about our products and materials. 

We believe that our technical support services are important to our marketing efforts. These services include assisting in defining a customer&#8217;s needs, evaluating alternative products and materials, designing a specific system to perform the desired separation or operation, training users and assisting customers in compliance with relevant government regulations. In addition, we maintain a network of service centers and technology centers located in all key markets internationally and in the United States to support our products and our customers with their advanced development needs. 

COMPETITION 

The market for our products is highly competitive. While price is an important factor, we compete primarily on the basis of the following factors: 

historical customer relationships; 

breadth of product line; 

technical expertise; 

breadth of geographic presence; 

product quality and performance; 

advanced manufacturing capabilities; and 

total cost of ownership; 

after-sales service. 

customer service and support; 

&#160; 

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of the factors listed above, but we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. We believe that our key competitive strengths include our broad product line, our strong research and development infrastructure and investment, our manufacturing excellence, our advanced quality control systems, the low total cost of ownership of our products, our ability to provide our customers with quick order fulfillment and our technical applications expertise. However, our competitive position varies depending on the market segment and specific product areas within these segments. While we have longstanding relationships with a number of semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers, we also face significant competition from companies that also have longstanding relationships with other semiconductor and electronic device manufacturers and, as a result, have been able to have their products specified by those customers for use in manufacturers&#8217; fabrication facilities. In the markets for our consumable products, we believe that our differentiated membrane and materials management technologies, our materials and materials delivery systems, our strong supply chain capabilities that allow us to provide our customers with quick order fulfillment, and our technical expertise, which enables us to develop membranes to meet specific customer needs and assist our customers in improving the functionality of our membranes for particular applications, allow us to compete favorably. In these markets our competitors compete against us on the basis of price, as well as alternative membrane technology having different functionality, manufacturing capabilities and breadth of geographic presence. 

The market for our products is highly fragmented, and we compete with a number of different companies. Our liquid filtration and other contamination control products compete with product offerings from a wide range of companies including both large companies, such as Pall Corporation, which was acquired by Danaher Corporation in 2015, as well as small Asian filter manufacturers. Our microenvironment product lines face competition largely on a product-by-product basis. We face competition from mid-size Japanese companies such as Miraial Co. Ltd. and Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd. and from small regional suppliers such as Gudeng Precision Industrial Co., Ltd. and e.PAK Resources Pte. Ltd. These companies compete with us primarily in 200 mm and below, and 300 mm applications. Our fluid management solutions products also face worldwide competition from companies such as Gemu Valves, Inc., Integrated Automation, Inc. (CKD) and Tokyo Keiso Co., Ltd. Our materials packaging products primarily compete with glass and plastic bottle manufacturers. Our Poco Graphite products compete with products manufactured by companies such as Mersen (France), Tokai Carbon Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Toyo Tanso Co., Ltd. (Japan). There are numerous domestic and foreign companies that offer products that compete with our Electronic Materials products including Air Products and Chemicals (Electronics Division), DuPont Electronic Technologies, Dow Chemical Company (including Rohm and Haas), BASF and Air Liquide as well as several smaller companies that specialize in niche markets. Our SDS adsorbent based sub-atmospheric gas delivery systems face competition from Praxair, Inc. as well as from a number of companies that compete with high-pressure gas cylinders and solid sources. Our gas filtration products compete with companies such as SAES Pure Gas, Inc., Donaldson Company, Inc. and Mott Corporation. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. In some cases, our competitors are smaller than us, but well-established in specific product niches. We believe that none of our competitors competes with us across all of our product offerings and that, within the markets that we serve, we offer a broader line of products, make use of a wider range of process control technologies and address a broader range of applications than any single competitor. 

ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our aggregate engineering, research and development expenses in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;were $105.9 million , $87.7 million &#32;and $55.3 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 454 employees in engineering, research and development. In addition, we have followed a practice of supplementing our internal research and development efforts by licensing technology from unaffiliated third parties and/or acquiring distribution rights with respect to products incorporating externally owned technologies when we believe it is in our long-term interests to do so. These R&#38;D expenses consist of personnel and other direct and indirect costs for internally funded project development, including the use of outside service providers. We also participate in joint development efforts with several key semiconductor manufacturers, advanced technology developers, and semiconductor equipment manufacturers. 

To meet the global needs of our customers, we have engineering, research and development capabilities in California, Connecticut, Minnesota, Massachusetts, Colorado, Texas, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, France, China and Malaysia. Our engineering, research and development efforts are directed toward developing and improving our technology platforms for semiconductor and advanced processing applications and identifying and developing products for new applications for which fluid management plays a critical role. 

We use sophisticated methodologies to research, develop and characterize our materials and products. Our materials technology laboratories are equipped to analyze the physical, rheological, thermal, chemical and compositional nature of the polymers we use. Our materials lab includes standard and advanced polymer analysis equipment such as inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP/MS), inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP/AES), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and automated thermal desorption gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (ATD-GC/MS). This advanced analysis equipment allows us to detect contaminants in materials that could harm the semiconductor manufacturing process to levels as low as parts per billion, and in many cases parts per trillion. 

Our capabilities to test and characterize our materials and products are focused on continuously reducing risks and threats to the integrity of the critical materials that our customers use in their manufacturing processes. We expect that technology and product engineering, research and development will continue to represent an important element in our ability to develop and characterize our materials and products. 

Key elements of our engineering, research and development expenditures over the past three years have included the development of new product platforms to meet the manufacturing needs for 28 and 20 nanometer and smaller semiconductor devices. Driven by the proliferation of new materials and chemicals in the manufacturing processes and more demanding platforms for contamination control for 300 mm wafers, investments were made for new contamination control products in the area of copper interconnects, deep ultra-violet (DUV) and EUV photolithography, and chemical and gas management technologies for advanced wafer cleans, deposition and etch equipment. We made additional investments in the area of advanced process control, monitoring and diagnostics capabilities for future generations of semiconductor manufacturing processes, including the development of a manufacturing capability for the production of Single Wafer Carriers, Multi Application Carriers and FOUPs for the next generation 450 mm wafers. Our employees also work closely with our customers&#8217; development personnel. These relationships help us identify and define future technical needs on which to focus our engineering, research and development efforts. In addition, we participate in Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI &#174; ), an association of semiconductor equipment suppliers, and leading industry consortia, such as the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre (imec &#174; ) and Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology (SEMATECH), including its Global 450 Consortium (G450C). For example, we have participated with SEMI to develop specifications for the next generation wafer shipping and handling products and with a major customer to develop specific wafer handling products for 450 mm wafers. We also support research at academic and other institutions targeted at advances in materials science and semiconductor process development. 

We also form strategic alliances, including joint development programs and collaborative marketing efforts, to develop new products and to accelerate the introduction of our products. These programs have led to significant technological advances, including the development of proprietary advanced materials and semiconductor manufacturing processes. We have a strategic alliance with Enthone, Inc. (Enthone), a subsidiary of Alent plc, pursuant to which we hold the exclusive worldwide marketing and distribution rights to Enthone&#8217;s copper ECD products, including its ViaForm products. Under the terms of the agreement, Enthone continues to manufacture the ViaForm products for us. We also have smaller alliances and programs in Asia to enhance our core technology base and promote the introduction of new and innovative products. 

MANUFACTURING 

Our customers rely on our products and materials to assure the integrity of the critical materials used in their manufacturing processes by providing dimensional precision and stability, purity, cleanliness and consistent performance. Our ability to meet our customers&#8217; expectations, combined with our substantial investments in worldwide manufacturing capacity, position us to respond to the increasing demands of the semiconductor industry and other industries that require yield enhancing materials and solutions. 

To meet our customer needs worldwide, we have established an extensive global manufacturing network with manufacturing and coating facilities in the United States, Japan, Taiwan, France, Malaysia and South Korea. Because we work in an industry where contamination control is paramount, we maintain Class 100 to Class 10,000 clean rooms for manufacturing and assembly. We believe that our worldwide manufacturing operations and our advanced manufacturing capabilities are important competitive advantages. Our advanced manufacturing capabilities include: 

&#8226; 

Injection Molding. &#32;Our manufacturing expertise is based on our long experience with injection molding. Using molds produced from computer-aided processes, our manufacturing technicians utilize specialized injection molding equipment and operate within specific protocols and procedures established to consistently produce precision products. 

&#8226; 

Extrusion. &#32;Extrusion is accomplished through the use of heat and force from a screw to melt solid polymer pellets in a cylinder and then forcing the resulting melt through a die to produce tubing and pipe. We have established contamination-free on-line laser marking and measurement techniques to properly identify products during the extrusion process and ensure consistency in overall dimension and wall thickness. In addition, we use extrusion technology to extrude a polymer mix into flat sheet and hollow fiber membranes. 

&#8226; 

Blow Molding. &#32;Blow molding consists of the use of heat and force from a screw to melt solid polymer pellets in a cylinder and then forcing the resulting melt through a die to create a hollow tube. The molten tube is clamped in a mold and expanded with pressurized gas until it takes the shape of the mold. We utilize advanced three-layer processing to manufacture premium grade 55 gallon drums, leading to cost savings while simultaneously assuring durability, strength and purity. 

&#8226; 

Rotational Molding. &#32;Rotational molding is accomplished by the placing of a solid polymer powder in a mold, placing the mold in an oven and rotating the mold on two axes so that the melting polymer coats the entire surface of the mold. This forms a part in the shape of the mold upon cooling. We use rotational molding in manufacturing containers up to 5,000 liters. 

&#8226; 

Compression Molding. &#32;In compression molding, thermoset polymers are processed. Today, we use this manufacturing process primarily for manufacturing integrated flow controllers and valves market. We use the same expertise as in injection molding to assure a consistently produced precision product. 

&#8226; 

Membrane Casting. &#32;We cast membrane by extruding a polymer into flat sheet or hollow fiber format that is passed through a chamber with controlled atmospheric conditions to control the development of voids or pores in the membrane. Once cast, the membrane is subjected to solvent extraction and annealing steps. The various properties of the membranes that we offer are developed during subsequent process steps. 

&#8226; 

Cartridge Manufacturing. &#32;We fabricate the membrane we manufacture as well as membranes manufactured by others into finished filtration cartridges in a variety of configurations. The fabrication process involves membrane processing into pleated and other configurations around a central core and enclosing it in a framework of end caps and protective screening for use in fabricated cartridge housings. We also manufacture filter cartridges that are integrated into their own housings and incorporate our patented Connectology &#8482;&#174; &#32;quick connect technology. 

&#8226; 

Specialty Coating Capabilities. &#32;We fabricate high performance electrostatic chucks by using highly engineered materials and advance vacuum coatings. We have proprietary low-temperature, plasma-assisted CVD and physical vapor deposition (PVD) processes that deposit coatings on a variety of vacuum compatible materials, including metals, alloys, ceramics, semiconductors and polymers, with superior density, purity and uniformity. 

&#8226; 

Graphite Synthesis. &#32;We have a differentiated proprietary graphite synthesis process that produces premium graphite with superior strength, uniformity and performance. This synthesis process consists of blending and forming petroleum cokes into &#8220;green&#8221; billets, baking over an extended period between 800 to 1,100&#176;C, followed by a graphitization process at temperatures between 2,000 to 3,000&#176;C. The graphite produced by this process is sold in bulk, machined into specific components or converted into silicon carbide through controlled exposure to silicon monoxide gas. 

&#8226; 

Machining. &#32;Machining consists of the use of computer-controlled equipment to create shapes, such as valve bodies and other specific components, out of solid polymer blocks or rods, premium graphite and silicon carbide. Our computerized machining capabilities enable speed and repeatability in volume manufacturing of our machined products, particularly products utilized in chemical delivery applications. 

&#8226; 

Assembly. &#32;We have established protocols, flow charts, work instructions and quality assurance procedures to assure proper assembly of component parts. The extensive use of robotics throughout our facilities reduces labor costs, diminishes the possibility of contamination and assures process consistency. 

&#8226; 

Tool Making. &#32;We employ tool development staff in the United States and Malaysia and have tool-making capabilities in Malaysia. Our toolmakers produce the majority of the tools we use throughout the world. 

&#8226; 

High-Purity Materials Packaging. &#32;We have established protocols, flow charts, work instructions and quality assurance procedures to assure proper and ultraclean assembly of materials packaging products in reliable, consistent and repeatable processes. 

&#8226; 

Gas Delivery Systems. &#32;We use state of the art, secure gas cabinets with advanced leak monitoring capabilities and have established protocols, flow charts, work instructions and quality and safety assurance procedures to assure the safe, efficient and cost effective filling of gas cylinders. 

We have made significant investments in systems and equipment to create innovative products and tool designs, including metrology and 3D printing capabilities for rapid analysis and production prototype of products. 

In addition we use contract manufacturers for certain of our gas microcontamination control and other electronic materials products both in the U.S. and Asia. 

Entegris&#8217; products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available in quantity from alternate sources of supply. However, certain materials included in the Company&#8217;s products, such as certain filtration membranes, polymer resins and petroleum coke used by our Critical Materials Handling segment are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our Electronic Materials segment uses a broad range of specialty and commodity chemicals and polymers in the development of its products, including parts and sub-assemblies that are obtained from outside suppliers. We seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials. Likewise, we may, in some instances, rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for some of the materials used by our Electronic Materials segment, however, we have not experienced any sustained interruption in production or the supply of materials to our Electronic Materials segment, and we do not anticipate any significant difficulties in obtaining the materials necessary to manufacture these products. Although the Company seeks to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could interrupt our manufacturing operations and result in an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s results of operations. Furthermore, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could also adversely affect the Company&#8217;s results of operations. 

PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;our combined patent portfolio included 643 current U.S. patents, 1,320 current foreign patents, including counterparts to U.S. filings, 309 pending U.S. patent applications, 73 pending filings under the Patent Cooperation Treaty not yet nationalized and 1,054 pending foreign patent applications. While we believe that patents may be important for aspects of our business, we believe that our success also depends upon close customer contact, innovation, technological expertise, responsiveness and worldwide distribution. Additionally, while our patented technology may delay or deter a competitor in offering a competing product, we do not believe that our patent portfolio functions as a barrier to entry for any of our competitors. In addition, while we license and will continue to license technology used in the manufacture and distribution of products from third parties, we do not consider any particular license to be material to our business. We also license our technology to third parties from time to time and, in particular, as required for our patented technology to be designated as the standard by SEMI or other standard setting organizations within the semiconductor industry. 

We require each of our employees, including our executive officers, to enter into standard agreements pursuant to which the employee agrees to keep confidential all of our proprietary information and to assign to us all inventions made while employed by us. We also require all outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors and consultants who are provided confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the consulting or collaboration relationship in question. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entity&#8217;s or individual&#8217;s relationship with the Company is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific limited circumstances. 

The patent position of any manufacturer, including us, is subject to uncertainties and may involve complex legal and factual issues. Litigation has in the past and may in the future be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against claims of infringement or invalidity. The steps that we have taken in seeking patents and other intellectual property protections may prove inadequate to deter misappropriation of our technology and information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION 

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, waste management and health and safety matters, including measures relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal 

and remediation of contaminants, hazardous substances and wastes, as well as practices and procedures applicable to the construction and operation of our plants. There can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs and liabilities or that our past or future operations will not result in exposure to injury or claims of injury by employees or the public. Although some risk of costs and liabilities related to these matters is inherent in our business, as with many similar businesses, we believe that our business is operated in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. However, new, modified or more stringent requirements or enforcement policies could be adopted, which could adversely affect us. While we expect that capital expenditures will be necessary to assure that any new manufacturing facility is in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws, we do not expect these expenditures to be material. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 3,419 full-time employees, as well as approximately 138 temporary and part-time employees. Of our full-time employees, 454 work in engineering, research and development and 526 work in sales and marketing. Given the variability of business cycles in the semiconductor industry and the quick response time required by our customers, it is critical that we be able to quickly adjust the size of our production staff to maximize efficiency. Therefore, we use skilled temporary labor as required. 

None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement other than statutorily mandated programs in certain European countries. 

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR OPERATING SEGMENTS 

Our financial reporting segments are Critical Materials Handling (CMH), and Electronic Materials (EM). See Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis below for a discussion of revenue and segment profitability with respect to each of these reporting segments, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. See also note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Further, in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;approximately 77% , 75% &#32;and 71% , respectively, of our net sales were made to customers outside North America. Industry and geographic segment information is also discussed in note 15 to the Entegris, Inc. consolidated financial statements (the &#8220;Financial Statements&#8221;) included in response to Item 8 below, which note is incorporated herein by reference. 

OTHER INFORMATION 

Our shareholder rights plan, which was originally adopted by our Board of Directors on July 27, 2005, expired pursuant to its terms on August 8, 2015, along with the preferred share purchase rights issued thereunder. 

OUR HISTORY 

Effective April 30, 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of ATMI, Inc., a Delaware corporation based in Danbury, CT, for a cash purchase price of $34.00 per ATMI share pursuant to a merger transaction in which ATMI, Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. ATMI, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1997, and its predecessor company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1987. 

Effective August 6, 2005 Entegris, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and Mykrolis Corporation, a Delaware corporation, completed a strategic merger of equals transaction, pursuant to which they were each merged into the Company to carry on the combined businesses. Entegris Minnesota was incorporated in June 1999 to effect the business combination of Fluoroware, Inc., which began operating in 1966, and EMPAK, Inc., which began operating in 1980. 

Mykrolis was organized as a Delaware corporation on October 16, 2000 under the name Millipore MicroElectronics, Inc. in connection with the spin-off by Millipore Corporation of its microelectronics business unit which was completed on February 27, 2002. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following is a list, as of January 31, 2016, of our Executive Officers. All of the Corporate Officers listed below were elected to serve until the first Directors Meeting following the 2016 Annual Stockholders Meeting. 

Name 

Age 

Office 

First Appointed 

To Office* 

CORPORATE OFFICERS 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bertrand Loy 

President &#38; Chief Executive Officer 

Gregory B. Graves 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial &#160; Officer &#38; Treasurer 

Peter W. Walcott 

Senior Vice President , Secretary &#38; General Counsel 

John J. Murphy 

Senior Vice President, Human Resources 

Todd Edlund 

Senior Vice President &#38; Chief Operating Officer 

Christian F. Kramer 

Senior Vice President &#38; Chief Commercial Officer 

William Shaner 

Senior Vice President, Global Operations 

Corey Rucci 

Vice President, Business Development 

Gregory Marshall 

Vice President, Quality and EH&#38;S 

Michael D. Sauer 

Vice President, Controller &#38; Chief Accounting Officer 

* With either the Company or a predecessor company 

Bertrand Loy has served as our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director since November 2012. Prior to his promotion, Mr. Loy served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since 2008. From August 2005 until July 2008, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in charge of our global supply chain and manufacturing operations. He served as the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mykrolis from January 2001 until August 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Loy served as the Chief Information Officer of Millipore Corporation during 1999 and 2000. From 1995 until 1999, he served as the Division Controller and Head of Manufacturing for Millipore&#8217;s Laboratory Water Division. From 1989 until 1995, Mr. Loy served Sandoz Pharmaceuticals (now Novartis) in a variety of financial, audit and controller positions located in Europe, Central America and Japan. Mr. Loy served as a director of BTU International, Inc., (supplier of advanced thermal processing equipment) until its acquisition in January 2015. He also serves as a director of Harvard Bioscience, Inc. (scientific equipment) since November 2014 and Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (&#8220;SEMI&#8221;) (global high technology manufacturing trade association) since July 2013. 

Gregory B. Graves &#32;has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007. Prior to April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning &#38; Business Development since the effectiveness of the merger with Mykrolis. Mr. Graves served as the Chief Business Development Officer of Entegris Minnesota since September 2002 and from September 2003 until August 2004 he also served as Senior Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining Entegris Minnesota, Mr. Graves held positions in investment banking and corporate development, including at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray from June 1998 to August 2002 and at Dain Rauscher from October 1996 to May 1998. 

Peter W. Walcott &#32;has been our Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since the effectiveness of the merger with Mykrolis. He served as the Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Mykrolis since October 2000. Mr. Walcott served as the Assistant General Counsel of Millipore Corporation from 1981 until March 2001. 

John J. Murphy &#32;joined us as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources in October 2005. He served as the Senior Vice President Human Resources of HNTB, an engineering and architectural services firm, from February 2004 until October 2005 and as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources of Cadence Design Systems, Inc. from May 2000 through October 2003. Prior to that Mr. Murphy held senior human resources positions with Williams Companies, L.M. Ericsson Telephone Company and General Electric Company. 

Todd Edlund &#32;has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2014. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Critical Materials Handling business and prior to the merger with ATMI, he was the Vice President and General Manager of our Contamination Control Solutions Division since December 2007. He served as the Vice President and General Manager of our Liquid Systems Business Unit from 2005 to 2007, and prior to that as Entegris Minnesota&#8217;s Vice President of Sales for semiconductor markets from 2003 to 2005. Prior to 2003, Mr. Edlund held a variety of positions with our predecessor companies since 1995. 

Christian F. Kramer &#32;has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since November of 2014; prior to that he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Electronic Materials businesses since the merger with ATMI. Prior to that Mr. Kramer served ATMI as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Microelectronics, since February 2013. Mr. Kramer joined ATMI in 2010 and, through 2012, served as Senior Vice President of ATMI Material Solutions. Prior to joining 

ATMI, Mr. Kramer was Vice President, Global Strategic Account Management for Tokyo Electron America, a global manufacturer of capital equipment used in the semiconductor industry, from 1998 through 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Kramer held various commercial leadership positions in the semiconductor industry. 

William Shaner &#32;has been our Senior Vice President Global Operations since February 2014. Previously he served as our Vice President and General Manager, Microenvironments Division since 2007. He has served in a variety of sales, marketing, business development and engineering roles since joining Entegris in 1995. 

Gregory Marshall &#32; has been our Vice President, Quality and EH&#38;S since March of 2010. Prior to that he served as our Global Director of Quality since the merger with Mykrolis Corporation, prior to which he served as the Director of Quality for Mykrolis. Prior to joining Mykrolis, Mr. Marshall served as the Director of US Quality for Kokusai Semiconductor Equipment Corporation . 

Corey Rucci &#32; assumed his current position of Vice President, Business Development in February 2014. Prior to that he served as Vice President and General Manager of our Specialty Materials Division since 2011 and as General Manager of Poco Graphite, Inc. (POCO) since 2008 when we acquired POCO. Prior to joining Entegris, Mr. Rucci served POCO as the President and Chief Operating Officer since 2007, Chief Operating Officer since 2005, Chief Financial Officer since 2001 and Vice President of Business Development since 1998. Prior to that he worked at UNOCAL Corp. for 17 years in a variety of accounting, marketing and business development roles. 

Michael D. Sauer &#32;has been our Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since June 2012. Prior to that, he served as the Corporate Controller since 2008. From the time of the merger with Mykrolis until April 2008, Mr. Sauer served as Director of Treasury and Risk Management. Mr. Sauer joined Fluoroware, Inc., a predecessor to Entegris Minnesota in 1988 and held a variety of finance and accounting positions until 2001 when he became the Director of Business Development for Entegris Minnesota, the successor to Fluoroware, serving in that position until the merger with Mykrolis. 

