 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

&#160; 

General 

Erie Indemnity Company ("Indemnity", "we", "us", "our") is a publicly held Pennsylvania business corporation that has since our incorporation in 1925 served as the attorney-in-fact for the subscribers (policyholders) at the Erie Insurance Exchange ("Exchange"). The Exchange, which also commenced business in 1925, is a Pennsylvania-domiciled, reciprocal insurer that writes property and casualty insurance. We function solely as the management company and all insurance operations are performed by the Exchange. We operate our business as one segment. 

Our primary function as attorney-in-fact is to perform certain services for the Exchange relating to the sales, underwriting, and issuance of policies on behalf of the Exchange. This is done in accordance with a subscriber&#8217;s agreement (a limited power of attorney) executed individually by each subscriber (policyholder), which appoints us as their common attorney-in-fact to transact certain business on their behalf and to manage the affairs of the Exchange. Pursuant to the subscriber&#8217;s agreement and for our services as attorney-in-fact, we earn a management fee calculated as a percentage, not to exceed 25% , of the direct and assumed premiums written by the Exchange. The management fee rate is set annually by our Board of Directors. 

Services 

The services we provide to the Exchange are related to the sales, underwriting and issuance of policies. The sales related services we provide include agent compensation and certain sales and advertising support services. Agent compensation includes scheduled commissions to agents based upon premiums written as well as additional commissions and bonuses to agents, which are earned by achieving targeted measures. Agent compensation comprised approximately 67% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;expenses. The underwriting services we provide include underwriting and policy processing expenses and comprised approximately 11% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;expenses. We provide information technology services that support all functions that comprised approximately 10% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;expenses. The remaining services we provide include customer service and administrative costs. 

Erie Insurance Exchange 

Our primary purpose is to manage the affairs at the Exchange for the benefit of the policyholders. The Exchange is our sole customer and our earnings primarily come from management fees based on the direct and assumed premiums written by the Exchange. We have no direct competition in providing these services to the Exchange. 

The Exchange generates revenue by insuring preferred and standard risks, with personal lines comprising 70% &#32;of the 2015 &#32;direct and assumed premiums written and commercial lines comprising the remaining 30% . The principal personal lines products are private passenger automobile and homeowners. The principal commercial lines products are commercial multi-peril, workers compensation and commercial automobile. Historically, due to policy renewal and sales patterns, the Exchange&#8217;s direct and assumed premiums written are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year. 

The Exchange is represented by independent agencies that serve as its sole distribution channel. In addition to their principal role as salespersons, the independent agents play a significant role as underwriting and service providers and are an integral part of the Exchange&#8217;s success. 

Our results of operations are tied to the growth and financial condition of the Exchange. If any events occurred that impaired the Exchange&#8217;s ability to grow or sustain its financial condition, including but not limited to lower financial strength ratings, significant catastrophe losses, disruption in the independent agency relationships, or products offered not meeting customer demands, the Exchange could experience difficulty retaining its existing business and attracting new business. A decline in the business of the Exchange would likely result in a reduction of total premiums paid and a corresponding decrease in the amount of the management fees we receive. We also have an exposure to a concentration of credit risk related to the unsecured receivables due from the Exchange for its management fee. See Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 14, Concentrations of Credit Risk, of Notes to Financial Statements" contained within this report. See the risk factors related to our dependency on the growth and financial condition of the Exchange in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" contained within this report. 

Competition 

Our primary function is to provide management services to the Exchange as set forth in the subscriber&#8217;s agreement executed by each policyholder of the Exchange. There are a limited number of companies that provide services under a reciprocal insurance 

exchange structure. We do not directly compete against other such companies, given we are appointed by the policyholders of the Exchange to provide these services. 

The direct and assumed premiums written by the Exchange drive our management fee which is our primary source of revenue. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive. Property and casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of customer service, price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability and geographic coverage. Vigorous competition, particularly in the personal lines automobile and homeowners lines of business, is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies, some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents, by smaller regional insurers, and by large companies who market and sell personal lines products directly to consumers. In addition, because the insurance products of the Exchange are marketed exclusively through independent insurance agents, the Exchange faces competition within its appointed agencies based upon ease of doing business, product, price, and service relationships. 

&#160; 

Market competition bears directly on the price charged for insurance products and services subject to regulatory limitations. Industry capital levels can also significantly affect prices charged for coverage. Growth is driven by a company&#8217;s ability to provide insurance services and competitive prices while maintaining target profit margins. Growth is a product of a company&#8217;s ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers, as well as movement in the average premium per policy. 

The Exchange&#8217;s strategic focus includes employing an underwriting philosophy and product mix targeted to produce an underwriting profit on a long-term basis through careful risk selection and rational pricing, and consistently providing superior service to policyholders and agents. The Exchange&#8217;s business model is designed to provide the advantages of localized marketing and claims servicing with the economies of scale and low cost of operations from centralized support services. The Exchange also carefully selects the independent agencies that represent it and seeks to be the lead insurer with its agents in order to enhance the agency relationship and the likelihood of receiving the most desirable underwriting opportunities from its agents. 

See the risk factors related to our dependency on the growth and financial condition of the Exchange in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" contained within this report for further discussion on competition in the insurance industry. 

Employees 

We had over 4,800 &#32;full-time employees at December 31, 2015 , of which approximately 2,200 , or 46% , provide claims related services exclusively for the Exchange. The Exchange reimburses us monthly for the cost of these services. 

Government Regulation 

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems, defined as two or more affiliated persons, one or more of which is an insurer. The Exchange has the following wholly owned property and casualty subsidiaries: Erie Insurance Company, Erie Insurance Company of New York, Erie Insurance Property and Casualty Company and Flagship City Insurance Company, and a wholly owned life insurance company, Erie Family Life Insurance Company ("EFL"). Indemnity and the Exchange, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, meet the definition of an insurance holding company system. 

Each insurance company in the holding company system is required to register with the insurance supervisory authority of its state of domicile and furnish information regarding the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management, or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Pursuant to these laws, the respective insurance departments may examine us, as the management company, and the Exchange and its wholly owned subsidiaries at any time, and may require disclosure and/or prior approval of certain transactions with the insurers and us, as an insurance holding company. 

All transactions within a holding company system affecting the member insurers of the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and any charges or fees for services performed must be reasonable. Approval by the applicable insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the members within a holding company system. 

Website Access 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website at www.erieinsurance.com &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed electronically with the Securities Exchange Commission. Additionally, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K are available free of charge, upon written request, by contacting Investor Relations, Erie Indemnity Company, 

100 Erie Insurance Place, Erie, PA 16530, or calling (800) 458-0811. 

Our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available on our website and in printed form upon request, and our information statement on Schedule 14(C) is available free of charge on our website at www.erieinsurance.com . 

