 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Empire State Realty OP, L.P. is the entity through which Empire State Realty Trust, Inc. ("ESRT"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, conducts all of its business and owns (either directly or through subsidiaries) substantially all of its assets. We own, manage, operate, acquire and reposition office and retail properties in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area, including the Empire State Building, the world's most famous building. Empire State Realty Trust, Inc.'s Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ESRT." 

As of December 31, 2015 , our total portfolio, containing 10.1 million &#32;rentable square feet of office and retail space, was 87.3% &#32;occupied. Including signed leases not yet commenced, our total portfolio was 89.1% &#32;leased. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 14 office properties (including three long-term ground leasehold interests) encompassing approximately 9.3 million &#32;rentable square feet of office space, which were approximately 86.7% &#32;occupied or 88.6% &#32;leased including signed leases not yet commenced. Nine of these properties are located in the midtown Manhattan market and encompass approximately 7.5 million &#32;rentable square feet of office space, including the Empire State Building. Our Manhattan office properties also contain 518,792 &#32;rentable square feet of premier retail space on their ground floor and/or contiguous levels. Our remaining five office properties are located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York, encompassing approximately 1.9 million &#32;rentable square feet. The majority of square footage for these five properties is located in densely populated metropolitan communities with immediate access to mass transportation. Additionally, we have entitled land at the Stamford Transportation Center in Stamford, Connecticut, adjacent to one of our office properties, that will support the development of an approximately 380,000 rentable square foot office building and garage, which we refer to herein as Metro Tower. As of December 31, 2015 , our portfolio also included four standalone retail properties located in Manhattan and two standalone retail properties located in the city center of Westport, Connecticut, encompassing 204,452 &#32;rentable square feet in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2015 , our standalone retail properties were 100.0% &#32;leased in the aggregate. 

The Empire State Building offers panoramic views of New York and neighboring states from its world-famous 86th &#32; and 102nd &#32; floor observatories that draw millions of visitors per year. The number of visitors to the observatories was approximately 4.1 million and 4.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The 86th floor observatory has a 360-degree outdoor deck as well as indoor viewing galleries to accommodate guests day and night, all year-round. The 102nd &#32; floor observatory is entirely indoors and offers a 360-degree view of New York City from 1,250 feet above ground. 

We were organized as a Delaware limited partnership on November 28, 2011. We did not have any assets other than cash and did not have any meaningful operating activity until the consummation of the Offering and the related acquisition of our predecessor and certain non-controlled entities controlled by our predecessor on October 7, 2013 as part of the formation transactions. Our operations commenced upon completion of the Offering and related formation transactions on October 7, 2013. ESRT, as the sole general partner in our company, has responsibility and discretion in the management and control in our company, and our limited partners, in such capacity, have no authority to transact business for, or participate in the management activities, of our company. As of December 31, 2015 , ESRT owned approximately 44.9% of our operating partnership units. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that we distinguish ourselves from other owners and operators of office and retail properties as a result of the following competitive strengths: 

-  Irreplaceable Portfolio of Office Properties in Midtown Manhattan . Our Manhattan office properties are located in one of the most prized office markets in the world due to a combination of supply constraints, high barriers to entry, near-term and long-term prospects for job creation, vacancy absorption and rental rate growth. Management believes these properties could not be replaced today on a cost-competitive basis, if at all. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned nine Manhattan office properties (including three long-term ground leasehold interests) encompassing approximately 7.5 million &#32;rentable square feet of office space, including the Empire State Building, our flagship property. Unlike traditional office buildings, the Empire State Building provides us with a significant source of income from its observatory and broadcasting operations. All of these properties include premier retail space on their ground floor and/or contiguous levels, which comprise 518,792 &#32;rentable square feet in the aggregate and some of which have recently undergone significant redevelopments. We believe the high quality of our buildings, services and 

amenities, their desirable locations and commuter access to mass transportation should allow us to increase rents and occupancy to generate positive cash flow and growth. 

-  Expertise in Repositioning and Redeveloping Manhattan Office Properties . We have substantial expertise in redeveloping and repositioning Manhattan office properties, having invested a total of approximately $645.0 million &#32;(excluding tenant improvement costs and leasing commissions) in our Manhattan office properties since we assumed full control of the day-to-day management of these properties beginning with One Grand Central Place in November 2002 through 2006. The $645.0 million &#32;includes amounts invested at 1400 Broadway and 111 West 33rd Street (formerly known as 112 West 34th Street), which were acquired after the completion of the Offering. We have substantial experience in upgrading, redeveloping and modernizing (or are in the process thereof) building lobbies, corridors, bathrooms and elevator cabs and old, antiquated spaces to include new ceilings, lighting, pantries and base building systems (including electric distribution and air conditioning), as well as enhanced tenant amenities. To complete our portfolio-wide redevelopment program as presently defined, we intend to spend an additional $30.0 million &#32;to $50.0 million &#32;on repositioning activities at our existing Manhattan office properties (excluding tenant improvement costs and leasing commissions), most of which remains at the Empire State Building. We have successfully aggregated and are continuing to aggregate smaller spaces to offer larger blocks of space, including multiple floors, that are attractive to larger, higher credit-quality tenants and to offer new, pre-built suites with improved layouts. As part of this program, we have converted some or all of the second floor office space of certain of our Manhattan office properties to higher rent retail space. We believe that the post-redevelopment high quality of our buildings and the service we provide also attract higher credit-quality tenants for larger spaces at rents above similar vintage buildings, and below new construction, thus defining a new price point and allowing us to drive superior returns on invested capital per square foot. In addition, we believe that, based on the results of our base building energy efficiency retrofit, and energy efficient tenant build-outs, at the Empire State Building, the lessons of which we are applying throughout our portfolio, we derive cost savings through innovative energy efficiency retrofitting and sustainability initiatives, reducing direct and indirect energy costs paid both by tenants and by us throughout our other Manhattan office properties and greater New York metropolitan area office properties, and that this improves our competitive position. 

-  Leader in Energy Efficiency Retrofitting . We have pioneered certain practices in energy efficiency, and at the Empire State Building we have partnered with the Clinton Climate Initiative, Johnson Controls Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle and the Rocky Mountain Institute to create and implement a groundbreaking, replicable process for integrating energy efficiency retrofits in the existing built environment. The reduced energy consumption reduces costs for us and our tenants, and we believe creates a competitive advantage for our properties. We believe that higher quality tenants in general place a higher priority on sustainability, controlling costs, and minimizing contributions to greenhouse gases. We believe our expertise in this area gives us the opportunity to attract higher quality tenants at higher rental rates and to reduce our expenses. As a result of our efforts, approximately 64.3% of our portfolio square feet is Energy Star certified, including the Empire State Building. As a result of the energy efficiency retrofits, we estimate that the Empire State Building will save at least 38% of its pre-retrofit level of energy use, resulting in at least $4.4 million of annual energy cost savings. Johnson Controls Inc. has guaranteed minimum energy cost savings of $2.2 million annually, from 2010 through 2025, with respect to certain of the retrofits in which Johnson Controls Inc. was project leader. Actual 2013 energy cost savings was $2.8 million. We are implementing cost justified energy efficiency retrofit projects in our Manhattan and greater New York metropolitan area office properties based on our work at the Empire State Building. Finally, we maintain a series of management practices utilizing recycling of tenant and construction waste, recycled content carpets, low off-gassing paints and adhesives, "green" pest control and cleaning solutions, and recycled paper products throughout our office portfolio. We believe that our portfolio’s attractiveness is enhanced by these practices and that this should result in higher rental rates, longer lease terms and higher quality tenants. 

-  Attractive Retail Locations in Densely Populated Metropolitan Communities . As of December 31, 2015 , our portfolio also included six standalone retail properties and retail space at the ground floor and/or lower levels of our Manhattan office properties, encompassing 723,244 &#32;rentable square feet in the aggregate, which were approximately 94.3% &#32;occupied in the aggregate. All of these properties are located in dynamic retail corridors with convenient access to mass transportation, a diverse tenant base and high pedestrian traffic and/or main destination locations. Our retail portfolio includes 701,811 rentable square feet located in Manhattan and 21,433 rentable square feet located in Westport, Connecticut. Our current retail rents are meaningfully below current market rents, and as we recapture and redevelop retail space, we are able to drive strong positive spreads on newly leased space. We have significant retail expirations in the coming years that will allow us to further increase our cash flows as we continue our redevelopment program. Our retail tenants cover a number of industries, including financial services, and include Allen Edmonds; Ann Taylor; AT&amp;T; Bank of America; Bank Santander (Sovereign Bank); Best Buy Mobile; Charles Schwab; Chipotle; Duane Reade (a division of Walgreen Co.); Ethan Allen; FedEx/Kinko’s; Food Emporium; FootLocker; 

Gamestop; HSBC; JP Morgan Chase; Loews Theatre; Lululemon; Men’s Wearhouse; Nike; Panera Bread; Potbelly Sandwich Works; Sprint; Starbucks; Theory; TJ Maxx; Urban Outfitters; and Walgreens. Our Westport, Connecticut retail properties are located on Main Street, the main pedestrian thoroughfare in Westport, Connecticut, and have the advantage of being adjacent to one of the few available large-scale parking lots in town. 

-  Experienced and Committed Management Team with Proven Track Record . Our senior management team is highly regarded in the real estate community and has extensive relationships with a broad range of brokers, owners, tenants and lenders. We have developed relationships we believe enable us to both secure high credit-quality tenants on attractive terms, as well as provide us with potential acquisition opportunities. We have substantial in-house expertise and resources in asset and property management, leasing, marketing, acquisitions, construction, development and financing and a platform that is highly scalable. Members of our senior management team have worked in the real estate industry for an average of approximately 32 years with extensive experience in Greater New York area real estate, through many economic cycles. We take an intensive, hands-on approach to the management of our portfolio and quality brand building. As of December 31, 2015 , our named executive officers owned 13.1% of ESRT's common stock on a fully diluted basis (including shares of common stock as to which Anthony E. Malkin has the right to vote, but does not have a primary interest), and therefore their interests are aligned with those of ESRT's securityholders and they are incentivized to maximize returns to ESRT's securityholders. 

-  Strong Balance Sheet Supportive of Future Growth . As of December 31, 2015 , we had total debt outstanding of approximately $1.6 billion , with a weighted average interest rate of 4.12% &#32;and a weighted average maturity of 5.4 &#32;years. Additionally, we had approximately $760.0 million &#32;of available borrowing capacity under our secured revolving and term credit facility as of December 31, 2015 . Our debt represented 25.3% of enterprise value and our net debt to EBITDA was 4.9x. Excluding principal amortization, we have no debt maturing in 2016 and approximately $355.8 million &#32;of debt maturing in 2017. We continue to extend and ladder our debt maturities, increase our access to a variety of capital sources and maintain low leverage with significant capacity on our balance sheet. This low level of leverage gives us flexibility to cover our capital program and to take advantage of opportunities to acquire additional properties as and when we see compelling opportunities. We believe that lower levered companies outperform over the long term. 

Business and Growth Strategies 

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow and total returns to our securityholders and to increase the value of our properties through the pursuit of the following business and growth strategies: 

-  Vacating, Redeveloping, and Leasing of Redeveloped Space at Our Manhattan Office Properties . As of December 31, 2015 , our Manhattan office properties (excluding the retail component of these properties) were approximately 84.9% &#32;occupied, or 87.2% &#32;leased including signed leases not commenced, and had approximately 1.0 million &#32;rentable square feet of available space (excluding signed leases not commenced). Our program of redevelopment necessarily includes vacating older less desirable suites; demolishing them for re-leasing as full or multi-floor blocks, or as new pre-built suites; and re-leasing them. We believe our redevelopment and repositioning program for our Manhattan office properties results in our leasing space to better credit tenants and higher rents, while achieving returns of nine to 22 percent. Over time, as we have created and redeveloped large blocks of available space, we have leased them to higher quality tenants at higher rents, and intend to continue to execute on this program over the years to come. To date we believe these efforts have accelerated our ability to lease space to new higher credit-quality tenants, many of which have expanded the office space they lease from us over time. We also employ a pre-built suite strategy in selected portions of some of our properties to appeal to many credit-worthy smaller tenants by fitting out some available space with new ceilings, lighting, pantries and base building systems (including electric distribution and air conditioning) for immediate occupancy. These pre-built suites deploy energy efficiency strategies developed in our work at the Empire State Building and are designed with efficient layouts sought by a wide array of users which we believe will require only minor painting and carpeting for future re-leasing thus reducing our future costs. We expect to achieve returns on investment of nine to 18 percent on our pre-built suites. Over time, as we have redeveloped the spaces in our buildings, we believe we will increase our occupancy. 

-  Increase Existing Below-Market Rents . The purpose of our redevelopment is to sign leases for larger amounts of space to better credit tenants at higher rents. To date, we have capitalized on this opportunity and we believe we have significant embedded, de-risked growth that we can capture as we execute on the successful repositioning of our Manhattan office portfolio and improving market fundamentals to increase rents. For example, we expect to benefit from the re-leasing of 7.5% , or approximately 558,939 &#32;rentable square feet (including month-to-month leases), of our Manhattan office leases expiring through December 31, 2016, which we generally believe are currently at below 

market rates. These expiring leases represent a weighted average base rent of $44.90 &#32;per square foot based on current measurements. As older leases expire, we expect to continue to upgrade certain space to further increase rents. Our concentration in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area should also enable us to benefit from increased rents associated with current and anticipated near-term improvements in the financial and economic environment in these areas. We also expect to benefit from our price positioning, as we command prices that are above comparable vintage properties due to the quality of our newly developed space and our attractive amenities but below new construction. 

-  Complete the Redevelopment and Repositioning of Our Current Portfolio . We intend to continue to increase occupancy, improve tenant quality and enhance cash flow and value by completing the redevelopment and repositioning of our Manhattan office properties. We intend selectively to continue to allow leases for smaller spaces to expire or relocate smaller tenants in order to aggregate, demolish and re-demise existing office space into larger blocks of vacant space, which we believe will attract higher credit-quality tenants at higher rental rates. We apply rigorous underwriting analysis to determine if aggregation of vacant space for future leasing to larger tenants will improve our cash flows over the long term. In addition, we are a leader in developing economically justified energy efficiency retrofitting and sustainability and have made it a portfolio-wide initiative. We believe this makes our properties desirable to high credit-quality tenants at higher rental rates and longer lease terms. 

-  Pursue Attractive Acquisition and Development Opportunities . We will opportunistically pursue attractive opportunities to acquire office and retail properties. For the foreseeable future, we intend to focus our acquisition strategy primarily on Manhattan office properties and, to a lesser extent, office and multi-tenanted retail properties in densely populated communities in the greater New York metropolitan area and other markets we may identify in the future. We believe we can utilize our industry relationships (including well-known real estate owners in Manhattan), brand recognition, and our expertise in redeveloping and repositioning office properties to identify acquisition opportunities where we believe we can increase occupancy and rental rates. We also believe there is significant growth opportunity to acquire and reposition additional stand-alone retail spaces. Our strong balance sheet, access to capital, and ability to offer operating partnership units in tax deferred acquisition transactions should give us significant flexibility in structuring and consummating acquisitions. Further, we have a development site, Metro Tower at the Stamford Transportation Center, which is adjacent to our Metro Center property, which we believe to be one of the premier office buildings in Connecticut. All required zoning approvals have been obtained to allow development of an approximately 380,000 rentable square foot office tower and garage. We intend to develop this site when we deem the appropriate combination of market and other conditions are in place. 

-  Proactively Manage Our Portfolio . We believe our proactive, service-intensive approach to asset and property management helps increase occupancy and rental rates. We utilize our comprehensive building management services and our strong commitment to tenant and broker relationships and satisfaction to negotiate attractive leasing deals and to attract high credit-quality tenants. We proactively manage our rent roll and maintain continuous communication with our tenants. We foster strong tenant relationships by being responsive to tenant needs. We do this through the amenities we provide, the quality of our buildings and services, our employee screening and training, energy efficiency initiatives, and preventative maintenance and prompt repairs. Our attention to detail is integral to serving our clients and building our brand. Our properties have received numerous industry awards for their operational efficiency. We believe long-term tenant relationships will improve our operating results over time by reducing leasing, marketing and tenant improvement costs and reducing tenant turnover. We do extensive diligence on our tenants’ (current and prospective) balance sheets, businesses and business models to determine if we will establish long-term relationships in which they will both renew with us and expand over time. 

Leasing 

We are focused on maintaining a brand that tenants associate with a consistently high level of quality of services, installations, maintenance and amenities with long term financial stability. Through our commitment to brokers, we have developed long-term relationships that focus on negotiating attractive transactions with high credit-quality tenants. We proactively manage and cultivate our industry relationships and make the most senior members of our management team available to our constituencies. We believe that our consistent, open dialogue with our tenants and brokers enables us to maximize our redevelopment and repositioning opportunities. Our focus on performance and perspective allows us to concentrate on the ongoing management of our portfolio, while seeking opportunities for growth in the future. 

Property Management 

We protect our investments by regularly monitoring our properties, performing routine preventive maintenance, and implementing capital improvement programs in connection with property redevelopment and life cycle replacement of equipment and systems. We presently self-manage all of our properties. We proactively manage our properties and rent rolls to (i) aggregate smaller demised spaces to create large blocks of vacant space, to attract high credit-quality tenants at higher rental rates, and (ii) create efficient, modern, pre-built offices that can be rented through several lease cycles and attract better credit-quality tenants. We aggressively manage and control operating expenses at all of our properties. In addition, we have made energy efficiency retrofitting and sustainability a portfolio-wide initiative driven by economic return. We pass on the cost savings achieved by such improvements to our tenants through lower utility costs and reduced operating expense escalations. We believe these initiatives make our properties more desirable to a broader tenant base than the properties of our competitors. 

Business Segments 

Our reportable segments consist of a real estate segment and an observatory segment. Our real estate segment includes all activities related to the ownership, management, operation, acquisition, repositioning and disposition of our real estate assets. Our observatory segment operates the 86th and 102nd floor observatories at the Empire State Building. These two lines of businesses are managed separately because each business requires different support infrastructures, provides different services and has dissimilar economic characteristics such as investments needed, stream of revenues and different marketing strategies. We account for intersegment sales and transfers as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, that is, at current market prices. We include our construction operation in "Other" and it includes all activities related to providing construction services to tenants and to other entities within and outside our company. As of March 27, 2015, we no longer solicited new business for our construction management business. We completed all projects that were in progress. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our reportable segments. 

Regulation 

General 

The properties in our portfolio are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas. We believe each of the existing properties has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business. 

Americans with Disabilities Act 

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe the existing properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect. 

Environmental Matters 

Under various federal, state and/or local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or release of hazardous substances, waste, or petroleum products at, on, in, under or from such property, including costs for investigation or remediation, natural resource damages, or third party liability for personal injury or property damage. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such materials, and the liability may be joint and several. Some of our properties have been or may be impacted by contamination arising from current or prior uses of the property or adjacent properties for commercial, industrial or other purposes. Such contamination may arise from spills of petroleum or hazardous substances or releases from tanks used to store such materials. We also may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination at off-site disposal or treatment facilities when we arrange for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such facilities, without regard to whether we comply with environmental laws in doing so. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination on our properties may adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain tenants, and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. In addition to potential liability for cleanup costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which that property may be used or how businesses may be operated on that property. 

Some of our properties are adjacent to or near other properties used for industrial or commercial purposes or that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks used to store petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Releases from these properties could impact our properties. In addition, some of our properties have previously been used by former owners or tenants for commercial or industrial activities, e.g. , gas stations and dry cleaners, and a portion of the Metro Tower site is currently used for automobile parking and fueling, that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances at such properties or to surrounding properties. While certain properties contain or contained uses that could have or have impacted our properties, we are not aware of any liabilities related to environmental contamination that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our operations. 

Soil contamination has been identified at 69-97 Main Street in Westport, Connecticut. The affected soils are more than four feet below the ground surface. An Environmental Land Use Restriction has been imposed on this site to ensure the soil is not exposed, excavated or disturbed such that it could create a risk of migration of pollutants or a potential hazard to human health or the environment. While the contamination is currently contained, the potential resale value of this property and our ability to finance or refinance this property in the future may be adversely affected as a result of such contamination. In addition, pursuant to the Environmental Land Use Restriction, plans for the redevelopment of the property would be subject to the review of the Town of Westport, Connecticut among other conditions. 

The property situated at 500 Mamaroneck Avenue in Harrison, New York was the subject of a voluntary remedial action work cleanup plan performed by the former owner following its conveyance of title to the present owners under an agreement with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, or NYDEC. As a condition to the issuance of a "no further action" letter, NYDEC required that certain restrictive and affirmative covenants be recorded against the subject property. In substantial part, these include prohibition against construction that would disturb the soil cap isolating certain contaminated subsurface soil, limiting the use of such property to commercial uses, implementing engineering controls to assure that improvements be kept in good condition, not using ground water at the site for potable purposes without treatment, implementing safety procedures for workers to follow excavating at the site to protect their health and safety and filing an annual certification that the controls implemented in accordance with the voluntary remedial action work cleanup plan remain in place. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the site that had been substantially unimproved prior to acquisition may not be further developed. 

In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Noncompliance with these environmental and health and safety laws and regulations could subject us or our tenants to liability. These liabilities could affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. Moreover, changes in laws could increase the potential costs of compliance with such laws and regulations or increase liability for noncompliance. This may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise materially and adversely affect our operations, or those of our tenants, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on us. We sometimes require our tenants to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities in our leases with them. But in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of any of our tenants to satisfy such obligations, we may be required to satisfy such obligations. We are not presently aware of any instances of material non-compliance with environmental or health and safety laws or regulations at our properties, and we believe that we and/or our tenants have all material permits and approvals necessary under current laws and regulations to operate our properties. 

As the owner or operator of real property, we may also incur liability based on various building conditions. For example, buildings and other structures on properties that we currently own or operate or those we acquire or operate in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material, or ACM. Environmental and health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines or penalties on owners, operators or employers for non-compliance with those requirements. These requirements include special precautions, such as removal, abatement or air monitoring, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, redevelopment or demolition of a building, potentially resulting in substantial costs. In addition, we may be subject to liability for personal injury or property damage sustained as a result of releases of ACM into the environment. We are not presently aware of any material liabilities related to building conditions, including any instances of material non-compliance with asbestos requirements or any material liabilities related to asbestos. 

In addition, our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other indoor air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects or property damage or costs for remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the 

presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants or others if property damage or personal injury occurs. We are not presently aware of any material adverse indoor air quality issues at our properties. 

Insurance 

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, terrorism and rental loss insurance covering all of our Manhattan properties and our greater New York metropolitan area properties under a blanket policy. We carry additional all-risk property and business insurance, which includes terrorism insurance, on the Empire State Building through ESRT Captive Insurance Company L.L.C., or ESRT Captive Insurance, our wholly owned captive insurance company. ESRT Captive Insurance covers terrorism insurance for $800 million in losses in excess of $800 million per occurrence suffered by the Empire State Building, providing us with aggregate terrorism coverage of $1.6 billion at that property. ESRT Captive Insurance fully reinsures the 15% coinsurance under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (TRIPRA) and the difference between the TRIPRA captive deductible and policy deductible of $25,000 for non-Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Radiological exposures. As a result, we remain only liable for the 15% coinsurance under TRIPRA for Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Radiological (NBCR) exposures, as well as a deductible equal to 20% of the prior year’s premium. As long as we own ESRT Captive Insurance, we are responsible for ESRT Captive Insurance’s liquidity and capital resources, and ESRT Captive Insurance’s accounts are part of our consolidated financial statements. If we experience a loss and our captive insurance company is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of its required payment. The policies described above cover certified terrorism losses as defined under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA) and subsequent extensions. On January 12, 2015, the President of the United States signed into law TRIPRA, which extends TRIA through December 31, 2020. TRIA provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. As a result, the certified terrorism coverage provided by ESRT Captive Insurance is eligible for 85% coinsurance provided by the United States Treasury in excess of a statutorily calculated deductible. ESRT Captive Insurance reinsures 100% of their 15% coinsurance for non-NBCR exposures. The 15% coinsurance on NBCR exposures is retained by ESRT Captive Insurance. 

TRIA was not in effect for the period from January 1, 2015 through January 11, 2015. During this brief period of time, we carried a reduced terrorism insurance limit, which we believed was commercially acceptable under the circumstances. 

Reinsurance contracts do not relieve ESRT Captive Insurance from its primary obligations to its policyholders. Additionally, failure of the various reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in significant losses to ESRT Captive Insurance. The reinsurance has been ceded to reinsurers approved by the State of Vermont. ESRT Captive Insurance continually evaluates the reinsurers’ financial condition by considering published financial stability ratings of the reinsurers and other factors. There can be no assurance that reinsurance will continue to be available to ESRT Captive Insurance to the same extent and at the same cost. ESRT Captive Insurance may choose in the future to reevaluate the use of reinsurance to increase or decrease the amounts of risk it cedes. 

In addition to insurance held through our captive insurance company described above, we carry terrorism insurance on all of our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. 

Competition 

The leasing of real estate is highly competitive in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan market in which we operate. We compete with numerous acquirers, developers, owners and operators of commercial real estate, many of which own or may seek to acquire or develop properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. The principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. In addition, we face competition from other real estate companies including other REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, pension trusts, partnerships, individual investors and others that may have greater financial resources or access to capital than we do or that are willing to acquire properties in transactions which are more highly leveraged or are less attractive from a financial viewpoint than we are willing to pursue. In addition, competition from observatory and/or broadcasting operations at One World Trade Center and, to a lesser extent, from the observatory at Rockefeller Center and the broadcasting facility at Four Times Square, could have a negative impact on revenues from our observatory operations and/or broadcasting revenues. Adverse impacts on domestic travel and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also decrease demand in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our securityholders. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, in better locations within our 

markets or in higher quality facilities, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. 

ESRT's Tax Status as a REIT 

ESRT elected to be taxed as a REIT and operate in a manner that we believe allows it to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 2013. We believe that ESRT has been organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and that its intended manner of operation will enable it to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. So long as ESRT qualifies as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net taxable income that ESRT distributes currently to its securityholders. If ESRT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and does not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, ESRT will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and may be precluded from qualifying as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which it lost its REIT qualification. Even if ESRT qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on its income or property. 

Inflation 

Substantially all of our leases provide for separate real estate tax and operating expense escalations. In addition, many of the leases provide for fixed base rent increases. We believe inflationary increases may be at least partially offset by the contractual rent increases and expense escalations described above. We do not believe inflation has had a material impact on our historical financial position or results of operations. 

Seasonality 

Our observatory business is subject to tourism trends and weather, and therefore does experience some seasonality. During the past ten years of our annual observatory revenue, approximately 16% to 18% was realized in the first quarter, 26.0% to 28.0% was realized in the second quarter, 31.0% to 33.0% was realized in the third quarter and 23.0% to 25.0% was realized in the fourth quarter. We do not consider the balance of our business to be subject to material seasonal fluctuations. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 850 employees, 148 of whom were managers and professionals. There are currently collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services all of our office properties. 

Offices 

Our principal executive offices are located at One Grand Central Place, 60 East 42 nd &#32;Street, New York, New York 10165. In addition, we have six additional regional leasing and property management offices in Manhattan &#32; and the greater New York metropolitan area. Our current facilities are adequate for our present and future operations, although we may add regional offices or relocate our headquarters, depending upon our future operations. 

Available Information 

ESRT, our sole general partner, has a website address at http://www.empirestaterealtytrust.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, ESRT's website is not incorporated information and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report or document ESRT or we file with or furnish to the SEC and ESRT makes available, free of charge, on or through the SEC Filings section of its website, ESRT's and our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after ESRT or we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. ESRT has also posted on its website the Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Finance Committee Charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which govern its directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC, ESRT will post on its website any amendment to its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to its senior financial officers, and its executive officers or directors. You can also read and copy any materials ESRT or we file with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC maintains an Internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) &#32;that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

