 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Exelixis, Inc. (&#8220;Exelixis,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;) is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes small molecule therapies for the treatment of cancer. Our business focuses predominantly on the development and commercialization of cabozantinib, an internally-discovered inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases, in various tumor indications. Cabozantinib is currently approved in the United States and European Union for the treatment of progressive, metastatic medullary thyroid cancer, or MTC, and is marketed under the brand name COMETRIQ &#174; . 

In the past year, we obtained positive clinical results from our phase 3 pivotal trial METEOR ( Met astatic RCC Phase 3 Study E valuating Cab o zantinib vs. Eve r olimus), suggesting that cabozantinib also has the potential to make a meaningful difference in the lives of patients suffering from advanced renal cell carcinoma, or RCC, a serious form of cancer with a significantly larger patient population than MTC. Following the positive results from METEOR, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, granted Breakthrough Therapy and Fast Track designations for cabozantinib in RCC. These data from METEOR ultimately formed the basis of a New Drug Application, or NDA, submission to the FDA, which was completed in December 2015. On January 27, 2016, the FDA granted priority review to the NDA, with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, action date of June 22, 2016. We are actively preparing for a potential commercial launch of cabozantinib in advanced RCC, and we are now launch-ready, from a staffing perspective, for this indication should a positive regulatory decision come in the United States. 

In January 2016, our Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, for cabozantinib as a treatment for patients with advanced RCC who have received one prior therapy was accepted for review and granted accelerated assessment by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA. On February 29, 2016, we entered into &#32;a collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen Pharma SAS, or Ipsen, pursuant to which Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights for current and potential future cabozantinib indications outside of the United States, Canada and Japan. The companies have agreed to collaborate on the development of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications. With respect to remaining markets, we are evaluating opportunities to partner cabozantinib in Japan and intend to seek regulatory approval for cabozantinib in Canada and commercialize the drug there ourselves. 

Beyond MTC and RCC, we are engaged in a broad development program to explore the clinical potential of cabozantinib in additional tumor types. This program includes late stage trials that we conduct ourselves, such as CELESTIAL ( C abozantinib Phas e &#32;3 Control le d St udy I n Hep a tocellu l ar Carcinoma), our phase 3 trial of cabozantinib in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, or HCC, and earlier stage trials conducted through our Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with the National Cancer Institute&#8217;s Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, or NCI-CTEP, or our 

investigator sponsored trial, or IST, program. We intend to use these earlier stage trials to prioritize our later stage development program. 

During 2015, there was also significant progress with respect to the clinical development, regulatory status and commercial potential of certain of our partnered compounds. For example, cobimetinib, a compound we out-licensed in 2006 to Genentech, Inc. (a member of the Roche Group), or Genentech, was approved by the FDA on November 10, 2015, under the brand name COTELLIC TM , in combination with vemurafenib, as a treatment for patients with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation-positive advanced melanoma. COTELLIC in combination with vemurafenib has also been approved in Switzerland, the European Union and Canada for use in the same indication. Genentech has launched COTELLIC in these markets, and in the United States we contribute 25% of the sales force to the commercialization effort. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Roche/Genentech for cobimetinib, we are entitled to an initial equal share of U.S. profits and losses for cobimetinib, with our share decreasing as sales increase. We are entitled to low double-digit royalties on ex-U.S. net sales. Cobimetinib is also being evaluated in a broad development program comprising several clinical trials investigating cobimetinib in combination with a variety of agents in multiple tumor types. 

Our Strategy 

Our primary objective is to build cabozantinib into a significant oncology franchise as a single agent, and potentially in combination with other therapies. The strategy to achieve this objective comprises the following elements: 

&#8226; 

Capitalizing on the Opportunity for the Potential Commercialization of Cabozantinib in Advanced RCC. 

The second and later-line RCC market is large and growing. Published studies suggest that these settings encompass approximately 17,000 drug-eligible patients in the United States and 37,000 globally. However, only modest progress has been made in treating this disease. Everolimus and axitinib, the most frequently prescribed treatment options for patients suffering from second or later line RCC, were approved on the basis of modest improvements in progression free-survival, or PFS. These agents did not demonstrate a benefit in overall survival, or OS. Despite this limitation, however, these products continue to generate significant sales. 

In November of 2015, the FDA approved nivolumab, an immune-oncology agent, for the treatment of patients with RCC who have received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. FDA&#8217;s approval was based on nivolumab improving the duration of OS as compared with everolimus; however, nivolumab did not show an improvement in the duration of PFS, the measure of therapeutic benefit familiar to RCC-treating physicians based on the historic standard of care. 

On February 1, 2016, we announced that a second interim analysis of OS, a secondary endpoint in the METEOR pivotal trial, showed a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful increase in OS for patients randomized to cabozantinib as compared to everolimus. These data built upon previously reported positive results that demonstrated that cabozantinib, as compared to everolimus, had nearly doubled PFS, the primary endpoint, and showed a consistent benefit in objective response rate, or ORR. As a result, among all the existing agents evaluated in large pivotal trials in patients with advanced RCC, including nivolumab, cabozantinib is the first and only therapy to unequivocally demonstrate robust and statistically-significant improvements in all three key efficacy parameters of OS, PFS, and ORR. Cabozantinib&#8217;s safety profile in the METEOR study was consistent with that of other tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or TKIs, approved in RCC, and the rate of treatment discontinuation for adverse events unrelated to disease progression was low and similar to that of everolimus. Based on the strength and consistency of the clinical benefits demonstrated in the METEOR trial by cabozantinib, we believe that, if it is approved, physicians who treat patients with advanced RCC may view cabozantinib as a therapeutic option that is uniquely differentiated from the other medicines that are available or in late-stage development for this disease. 

Given the strength of cabozantinib&#8217;s clinical profile in advanced RCC, we have rapidly expanded our commercialization capabilities in anticipation of this medicine&#8217;s potential approvals in the United States and European Union. In the United States, once approved, we intend to make cabozantinib accessible to previously treated patients with advanced RCC with our own commercial efforts as quickly as possible. For territories outside the United States, Canada and Japan, our collaboration with Ipsen, a company already engaged in global distribution of oncology medicines, will enable us to make the compound more broadly available around the world and fully capitalize on its potential. 

&#8226; Exploring the Opportunity for Cabozantinib in Advanced HCC. 

Published studies indicate that an estimated 700,000 new cases of HCC present each year worldwide, with 39,000 of these cases resident in the United States. While, patients with localized disease may be candidates for surgery or other therapies such as embolization, treatment options for advanced disease are limited. Currently, sorafenib is the only approved agent for treatment of advanced, unresectable HCC. However, patients typically progress despite sorafenib treatment, at which point there is no approved therapy available to them. While a number of vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, receptor targeting agents have been tested in phase 2/3 trials in the post-sorafenib setting, none have shown benefit vs placebo. Thus, second-line advanced HCC represents an area of substantial unmet medical need. 

The receptor tyrosine kinase MET is the receptor for hepatocyte growth factor, and plays a crucial role in liver development and regeneration. Expression of MET is elevated in HCC, particularly in metastatic HCC, and high MET levels are associated with reduced OS and resistance to sorafenib treatment. In preclinical models, upregulation of MET has been shown to drive escape from VEGF receptor inhibition, and to promote an increase in invasion and metastases. Consistent with this, treatment of HCC patients with sorafenib can result in increases in tumor MET expression. These findings provide a strong parallel with the RCC setting, where high levels of MET expression and activation are also associated with poor prognosis and resistance to and escape from first-line treatment with VEGF receptor inhibitors. 

We believe that targeting both MET and VEGF receptors with cabozantinib in HCC may provide benefit in second-line HCC by maintaining VEGF receptor inhibition while also targeting MET, which is thought to be a key oncogenic and resistance pathway. In an initial test of this hypothesis, a cohort of HCC patients, including a subset whose disease had progressed despite prior sorafenib treatment, was enrolled in our phase 2 randomized discontinuation study, or RDT. Based on the encouraging data that emerged from this trial, we launched CELESTIAL, our phase 3 pivotal trial comparing cabozantinib to placebo in patients with advanced HCC who had received previous treatment with sorafenib. We anticipate top-line results from CELESTIAL in 2017. 

&#8226; Developing Cabozantinib in Other Indications by Leveraging External Resources. 

In an effort to broadly survey the activity of cabozantinib both as a single agent and in combination with other therapies, we have engaged in a CRADA with NCI-CTEP and an IST program. This approach has enabled us to investigate cabozantinib for the treatment of a wide variety of cancer indications in over 45 &#32;ongoing or planned clinical trials. In this manner, we engage with leading clinicians in the United States and internationally to expand our collective understanding of cabozantinib&#8217;s potential, while conserving our internal resources for late stage trials based on the signals that may emerge from these earlier trials. We believe this staged approach to building cabozantinib&#8217;s value with a far lesser upfront expenditure of funds has been rational and cost-effective. We expect results this year from several clinical studies being conducted under our collaboration with NCI-CTEP, including a phase 2 trial comparing cabozantinib to sunitinib in the first-line treatment of intermediate or poor risk RCC patients, a phase 1b trial of cabozantinib plus nivolumab alone, or in combination with ipilimumab, in patients with genitourinary tumors, including bladder cancer and RCC and a phase 2 trial evaluating single agent cabozantinib in recurrent endometrial cancer. 

&#8226; 

Continuing to Execute Successfully on the COMETRIQ commercialization plan for MTC. 

As COMETRIQ, cabozantinib is an important treatment option for patients suffering from progressive, metastatic MTC. Although this patient population is relatively small, the COMETRIQ opportunity in MTC has afforded us valuable commercialization experience, and revenue from COMETRIQ sales contributes to the working capital we require to operate our day-to-day business activities. We therefore intend to continue to execute on our COMETRIQ commercialization plans in the U.S. and internationally, with our collaboration partner, Ipsen, by promoting this medicine&#8217;s use appropriately and ensuring that patients have access. 

Beyond our efforts for cabozantinib, we are working with our corporate partners under the terms of our various collaboration agreements to realize the potential value of the compounds and programs we have out-licensed to them. In the aggregate, these partnered compounds could be of significant value to us if their development programs progress successfully. For additional information regarding our work with our corporate partners, please see the section entitled Collaborations . 

Cabozantinib Development Program 

Cabozantinib inhibits the activity of tyrosine kinases, including VEGF receptors, MET, AXL and RET. These receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in both normal cellular function and in pathologic processes such as oncogenesis, metastasis, tumor angiogenesis, and maintenance of the tumor microenvironment. We are evaluating cabozantinib in a broad development program comprising over 45 ongoing or planned clinical trials across multiple indications. We are the sponsor of some of those trials, including our two pivotal studies in advanced RCC and HCC, with the remaining trials being conducted through our CRADA with NCI-CTEP or our IST program. Based on the widespread interest we observe among clinical oncologists in taking part in further investigation of cabozantinib, we believe the drug&#8217;s therapeutic profile continues to be attractive to this community as a potential improvement over existing therapies for many types of cancer. 

RCC 

In July 2015, we announced positive results of METEOR, a phase 3 pivotal trial comparing cabozantinib in a tablet formulation to everolimus in patients with advanced RCC who have experienced disease progression following treatment with at least one prior VEGF receptor inhibitor. The METEOR results now offer us the potential opportunity to commercialize cabozantinib in a market with a significantly larger patient population than that for MTC. We have expanded our medical affairs and commercial capabilities so that we are in a position to execute successfully on the potential RCC opportunity, while continuing to build a foundation that will permit us to take advantage of potential future approved indications for cabozantinib. 

METEOR was initiated in May 2013. The trial was designed to enroll 650 patients at approximately 200 sites. Patients were stratified based on the number of prior VEGF receptor inhibitors received, and on commonly applied RCC risk criteria. Patients were randomized 1:1 to receive 60 mg of cabozantinib daily or 10 mg of everolimus daily, and no cross-over was allowed between the study arms. The METEOR trial was designed to provide adequate power to assess both the primary endpoint of PFS, and the secondary endpoint of OS. The trial protocol specified that the primary analysis of PFS would be conducted among the first 375 patients randomized while the secondary endpoint of OS would be conducted among all 650 patients randomized. This design was employed to ensure sufficient follow up and a PFS profile that would not be primarily weighted toward early events. Such disproportionate weighting of events was a potential risk if the entire study population required for the secondary endpoint analysis of OS had also served as the population for the primary analysis of PFS. On September 26, 2015, The New England Journal of Medicine published the complete, detailed positive top-line results from the primary analysis of METEOR, and these results were also presented during the Presidential Session I at the European Cancer Congress 2015. The trial met its primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant increase in PFS for cabozantinib, as determined by an independent radiology review committee, or IRRC, among the first 375 patients enrolled. The median PFS was 7.4 months for the cabozantinib arm versus 3.8 months for the everolimus arm, and the hazard ratio [HR] was 0.58 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.45-0.75, p&#60;001), corresponding to a 42% reduction in the rate of disease progression or death for cabozantinib compared to everolimus. The trial also showed a strong positive trend for the secondary endpoint of OS, although at the time of the July 2015 interim analysis, the p-value to achieve statistical significance was not reached. On February 1, 2016, we announced that in a second interim analysis for OS, the results showed a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful increase in OS for patients randomized to cabozantinib as compared to everolimus. 

In January 2016, an analysis of PFS among all 658 patients enrolled was presented at the 2016 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium, and revealed consistent results with the primary analysis showing a median PFS of 7.4 months for the cabozantinib arm versus 3.9 months for the everolimus arm, and a HR of 0.52 (95% CI 0.43-0.64, p&#60;0.001), corresponding to a 48% reduction in the rate of disease progression or death for cabozantinib as compared to everolimus. In addition, subgroup analyses for PFS showed consistent beneficial effect of cabozantinib versus everolimus; subgroups included: ECOG performance status; commonly applied RCC risk groups as described by Motzer et al.; organ involvement, including bone and visceral metastases and overall tumor burden; extent and type of prior VEGF receptor inhibitor therapy; and prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. For patients without prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy, median PFS was 7.4 months for cabozantinib and 3.9 months for everolimus (HR = 0.54, 95% CI 0.44-0.66). For patients who had received prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy, the median PFS for cabozantinib was not reached, and the median PFS for everolimus was 4.1 months (HR = 0.22, 95% CI 0.07-0.65). Subgroup analyses for ORR also showed consistent benefit for cabozantinib as compared to everolimus. A review of adverse events, or AEs, demonstrated that the frequency of AEs of any grade regardless of causality was approximately balanced between study arms, and the rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse events was 9% and 10% for cabozantinib and everolimus, respectively. 

On the basis of the data from the METEOR trial, we completed the submission of our rolling NDA with the FDA in December 2015, and on January 27, 2016, the FDA granted priority review to the NDA, with a PDUFA action date of June 22, 2016. The FDA previously granted both Breakthrough Therapy and Fast Track designations to cabozantinib for the treatment of patients with advanced RCC who have received one prior therapy. In January 2016, the EMA accepted for review our MAA for cabozantinib as a treatment for patients with advanced RCC who have received one prior therapy. The EMA&#8217;s Committee for 

Medicinal Products for Human Use previously granted accelerated assessment to cabozantinib for RCC, and as a result, our MAA will be eligible for accelerated review. 

We have designed our commercial and medical affairs organizations and strategic commercial approach to maintain flexibility in response to market opportunities. In the United States, we have increased our sales, marketing, medical affairs and distribution capabilities and we are now ready, from a staffing perspective, to launch cabozantinib for the treatment of patients with advanced RCC. Internationally, our collaboration with Ipsen provides us with the ability to capitalize on cabozantinib&#8217;s international clinical and commercial potential. 

HCC 

The most advanced clinical program for cabozantinib beyond progressive, metastatic MTC and advanced RCC is focused on the treatment of advanced HCC. Based on the encouraging data that emerged from a cohort of HCC patients treated with cabozantinib in our phase 2 RDT, we launched CELESTIAL, our phase 3 pivotal trial comparing cabozantinib to placebo in patients with advanced HCC who had received previous treatment with sorafenib. The trial is designed to enroll 760 patients at approximately 200 sites. Patients are being randomized 2:1 to receive 60 mg of cabozantinib daily or placebo. The primary endpoint for CELESTIAL is OS, and the secondary endpoints include ORR and PFS. We anticipate top-line results from CELESTIAL in 2017. 

Trials Conducted through our CRADA with NCI-CTEP and our IST Program 

We have initiated or are evaluating the initiation of pivotal trials exploring cabozantinib&#8217;s potential in other tumor types, based on our belief that these investigations will increase the value of the cabozantinib asset, spread the development and commercialization risk for cabozantinib across multiple opportunities, and eventually enhance future revenue growth. Our CRADA with NCI-CTEP, which commenced in November 2011, and our IST program initiated in October 2010 have enabled us to expand the cabozantinib development program beyond our internal development efforts. We intend to continue to expand the cabozantinib development program based on encouraging interim data that emerge from these programs, in addition to data that have emerged from our phase 2 RDT. Objective tumor responses have been observed in patients treated with cabozantinib in more than 20 individual tumor types investigated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials to date, reflecting the medicine&#8217;s broad clinical potential. In addition, we have observed resolution of metastatic bone lesions on bone scan in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, or mCRPC, metastatic breast cancer or melanoma in the RDT, in patients with RCC or differentiated thyroid cancer in a phase 1 clinical trial, and in patients with bladder cancer in an NCI-CTEP-sponsored phase 2 clinical trial. 

To support the future development of cabozantinib, our Medical Affairs department is responsible for responding to unsolicited physician inquiries with appropriate scientific and medical education and information, supporting scientific presentations and publications, and overseeing the IST process. Our IST program helps us to continue to evaluate cabozantinib across a broad range of tumor types, including non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, bladder cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, differentiated thyroid cancer and others, to support further prioritization of our clinical and commercial options. 

NSCLC 

In November 2014, we announced positive top-line results from a randomized phase 2 trial of cabozantinib and erlotinib alone or in combination as second- or third-line therapy in patients with stage IV EGFR wild-type NSCLC. This trial (Study E1512) is sponsored through our CRADA with NCI-CTEP. Study E1512 was designed and is being conducted by the ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group. Study E1512 enrolled 125 patients with EGFR wild-type metastatic NSCLC who had received at least one or two prior chemotherapy regimens; of these, 113 patients were evaluable for efficacy and 118 patients were evaluable for safety. Patients were randomized 1:1:1 to receive erlotinib (150 mg daily), cabozantinib (60 mg daily), or the combination of erlotinib plus cabozantinib (150 mg plus 40 mg daily). 

On May 31, 2015, positive results from this trial were reported at the American Society of Clinical Oncology, or ASCO, 2015 Congress. The study met its primary endpoint, demonstrating significant increases in PFS for cabozantinib and the combination of cabozantinib plus erlotinib when individually compared to the erlotinib arm. The median PFS for the combination of cabozantinib and erlotinib was 4.7 months versus 1.9 months for erlotinib alone, a more than two-fold increase that corresponds to a 65% reduction in the risk of disease worsening (HR=0.35, 80% CI 0.23-0.52, p=0.0005). The median PFS for cabozantinib monotherapy was 4.2 months versus 1.9 months for erlotinib alone, and the HR was 0.38 (80% CI 0.27-0.55, p=0.0004), corresponding to a 62% reduction in the rate of disease worsening. OS was a secondary endpoint of the trial. Median OS was 13.3 months for the combination of cabozantinib and erlotinib, and 9.2 months for cabozantinib alone, as compared to 4.1 months for erlotinib alone. When individually compared to the erlotinib arm, HR for OS was 0.44 (p=0.004), corresponding to a 56% reduction in the rate of death for the combination of cabozantinib plus erlotinib, and 0.59 (p=0.03), corresponding to a 41% reduction in the rate of death for the cabozantinib monotherapy arm. ORR, another secondary 

endpoint, was 8% for the combination arm (2 partial responses [PR]), 14% (4 PRs) for the cabozantinib monotherapy arm, and 3% (1 PR) for the erlotinib arm. Stable disease as a best response was observed in 47% of patients in the combination arm and 42% in the cabozantinib monotherapy arm, compared with 17% in the erlotinib arm. One hundred and eighteen patients were evaluable for safety. The most common treatment-related adverse events, or AEs, grade 3 or higher, for the combination arm (n=39) were: diarrhea (27%), fatigue (15%), and syncope (8%). For the cabozantinib monotherapy arm, the most common AEs, grade 3 or higher, were: hypertension (26%), fatigue (15%), mucositis (10%) and thromboembolic events (8%). The most common AEs, grade 3 or higher, for the erlotinib arm were fatigue (12%) and diarrhea (8%). Overall, the rate of grade 3 or higher adverse events was 72% in the combination arm and 67% in the cabozantinib monotherapy arm, compared with the erlotinib arm (35%). 

Informed by these clinical results, we are actively working with clinical collaborators to explore cabozantinib&#8217;s further development in NSCLC, including potential combination approaches with immune-oncology agents. 

Other Cancer Indications 

Clinical trials approved to date under the CRADA include the following: 

&#8226; 

Phase 2 or phase 1/2 clinical trials to help prioritize future pivotal trials of cabozantinib in disease settings where there is substantial unmet medical need and in which cabozantinib has previously demonstrated clinical activity, consisting of randomized phase 2 clinical trials in first line RCC (CABOSUN), ocular melanoma, prostate cancer and second/third line EGFR-wt NSCLC; 

&#8226; 

Additional phase 2 or phase 1/2 clinical trials to explore cabozantinib&#8217;s potential utility in other tumor types, including endometrial cancer, bladder cancer, sarcomas, NSCLC (EGFR-activating mutation positive), differentiated thyroid cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer, cutaneous melanoma (molecularly selected patients), pancreatic neuroendocrine and carcinoid tumors. Positive results in these indications could lead to further study in randomized phase 2 or phase 3 clinical trials; and 

&#8226; 

Additional phase 1 clinical trials to further evaluate cabozantinib, consisting of a combination trial of cabozantinib and immune-oncology agents (nivolumab with or without ipilumumab) in genitourinary tumors, a trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of cabozantinib in pediatric patients, and a trial of cabozantinib in patients with advanced solid tumors and human immunodeficiency virus. 

Commencement of each of the proposed trials approved under the CRADA is subject to protocol development and satisfaction of certain other conditions. The proposed trials approved under the CRADA will be conducted under an investigational new drug, or IND, application held by NCI-CTEP. We believe our CRADA reflects a major commitment by NCI-CTEP to support the broad exploration of cabozantinib&#8217;s potential in a wide variety of cancers, each representing a substantial unmet medical need. NCI-CTEP provides funding for as many as 20 active clinical trials each year for a five-year period. We believe the agreement will enable us to broadly expand the cabozantinib development program in a cost-efficient manner. 

We expect results this year from the following clinical studies being conducted under our collaboration with NCI-CTEP : 

&#8226; 

CABOSUN, the randomized phase 2 trial comparing cabozantinib to sunitinib in the treatment of intermediate or poor risk first-line RCC patients, which completed enrollment in early 2015 and is being conducted by The Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology; 

&#8226; 

A phase 1b trial of cabozantinib plus nivolumab alone, or in combination with ipilimumab, in patients with genitourinary tumors, including bladder cancer and RCC; and 

&#8226; 

A phase 2 trial evaluating single agent cabozantinib in recurrent endometrial cancer. 

Cabozantinib is also being evaluated in a variety of indications under our IST program. Patients have enrolled in 28 trials, 18 of which are currently accruing patients. An additional study is expected to initiate accrual soon. 

COMETRIQ (cabozantinib) capsules for MTC 

MTC is a rare form of thyroid cancer. We currently estimate that there are between 500 and 700 first and second line metastatic MTC patients diagnosed in the United States each year who will be eligible for COMETRIQ. Following FDA approval on November 29, 2012, COMETRIQ capsules became commercially available in the United States in January 2013. In March 2014, the European Commission granted COMETRIQ conditional marketing authorization for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic MTC. 

EXAM Pivotal Trial 

COMETRIQ&#8217;s safety and efficacy were assessed in an international, multi-center, randomized double-blinded controlled trial of 330 patients with progressive, metastatic MTC, known as EXAM ( E fficacy of X L184 (Cabozantinib) in A dvanced M edullary Thyroid Cancer). Patients were required to have evidence of actively progressive disease within 14 months prior to study entry. This assessment was performed by an IRRC, in 89% of patients and by the treating physicians in 11% of patients. Patients were randomized 2:1 to receive COMETRIQ 140 mg (n = 219) or placebo (n = 111) orally, once daily until disease progression determined by the treating physician or until intolerable toxicity. Randomization was stratified by age (&#8804; 65 years vs. &#62; 65 years) and prior use of a TKI. No cross-over was allowed at the time of progression. The primary endpoint was to compare PFS in patients receiving COMETRIQ versus patients receiving placebo. Secondary endpoints included ORR and OS. The main efficacy outcome measures of PFS, ORR and response duration were based on IRRC-confirmed events using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), which is a widely used set of rules that define when cancer patients improve (&#8220;respond&#8221;), stay the same (&#8220;stabilize&#8221;) or worsen (&#8220;progress&#8221;) during treatments. 

EXAM served as the basis for the regulatory approval of COMETRIQ in the United States and European Union. A statistically significant prolongation in PFS was demonstrated among COMETRIQ-treated patients compared to those receiving placebo [HR 0.28 (95% CI: 0.19-0.40); p&#60;0.0001], with median PFS of 11.2 months in the COMETRIQ arm and 4.0 months in the placebo arm. Partial responses were observed only among patients in the COMETRIQ arm (27% vs. 0%; p&#60;0.0001). The median duration of objective response was 14.7 months (95% CI: 11.1-19.3) for patients treated with COMETRIQ. In November 2014, we announced completion of the OS analysis, the secondary endpoint of the study. Consistent with an earlier interim analysis, there was no statistically significant difference in OS between the treatment arms. The median OS was 26.6 months for the COMETRQ arm and 21.1 months for the placebo arm (HR = 0.85; 95% CI 0.64-1.12; p = 0.2409). The subgroup analysis by RET M918T mutation status, a known negative prognostic factor in MTC, revealed a large improvement in OS of 25.4 months for COMETRIQ-treated patients positive for the RET M918T mutation; the median OS was 44.3 months for the COMETRIQ arm and 18.9 months for the placebo arm (HR = 0.60; 95% CI 0.38-0.95; p = 0.026, not adjusted for multiple subgroup testing). We presented the final results at the ASCO 2015 Congress and submitted the results to regulatory authorities to satisfy post-marketing commitments. 

Post-marketing Commitments 

In connection with the approval of COMETRIQ for the treatment of progressive, metastatic MTC, we are subject to the following post-marketing requirements: 

&#8226; 

A clinical study comparing a lower dose of COMETRIQ with the labeled dose of 140 mg. This study is evaluating safety and PFS in progressive, metastatic MTC patients. 

&#8226; 

Submission of the OS analysis from the EXAM study (see above). 

&#8226; 

Two clinical pharmacology studies assessing the pharmacokinetics of COMETRIQ, one to address the effect of administering COMETRIQ in conjunction with agents that increase gastric pH such as proton pump inhibitors, and the other study to assess the pharmacokinetics of COMETRIQ in patients with hepatic impairment. Both studies have been completed. 

&#8226; 

Four non-clinical studies to further assess the carcinogenicity, mutagenicity and teratogenicity of COMETRIQ. The mutagenicity and teratogenicity studies and one of the two carcinogenicity studies have been completed. 

Commercialization 

We market COMETRIQ in the United States using an internal commercial team. 

To help ensure that all eligible progressive, metastatic MTC patients have appropriate access to COMETRIQ, we have established a comprehensive reimbursement and support program called Exelixis Access Services. Through Exelixis Access Services, we: provide co-pay assistance to qualified, commercially insured patients to help minimize out-of-pocket costs; provide free drug to uninsured patients who meet certain clinical and financial criteria; and make contributions to an independent co-pay assistance charity to help patients who do not qualify for our co-pay assistance program. In addition, Exelixis Access Services is designed to provide comprehensive reimbursement support services, such as prior authorization 

support, benefits investigation and, if needed, appeals support. COMETRIQ is distributed in the United States exclusively through Diplomat Specialty Pharmacy, an independent specialty pharmacy that allows for efficient delivery of the medication by mail directly to patients. 

To respond to external inquiries regarding the appropriate clinical use of COMETRIQ, our Medical Affairs department is responsible for responding to physician inquiries with regularly updated and well-substantiated scientific, medical education and information. 

COMETRIQ in the European Union 

In February 2009, COMETRIQ received orphan drug designation in the European Union from the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for the treatment of MTC. The European Commission granted COMETRIQ conditional approval for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic MTC in March 2014. 

During 2013, we entered into an agreement with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, or Sobi, to support the distribution and commercialization of COMETRIQ for the approved MTC indication primarily in the European Union, Switzerland, Norway, Russia and Turkey, and potentially other countries in the event that COMETRIQ is approved for commercial sale in such jurisdictions. In January 2015, the parties amended and restructured their agreement, which was due to expire on December 31, 2015, extending its term to December 31, 2019. The agreement remains limited to the approved MTC indication in the indicated territories, and we continue to maintain commercial rights for all other potential cabozantinib oncology indications on a global basis. Under the amended terms, however, our payments to Sobi transitioned from fixed fees paid by Exelixis to Sobi to support initial build out of the COMETRIQ European infrastructure to a sales margin-based approach. 

The terms of our commercialization agreement with Sobi provide us with the ability to terminate the agreement at will upon payment of certain pre-determined termination fees. In connection with the establishment of our collaboration with Ipsen, we intend to provide Sobi with notice of termination and following a transition period, Ipsen will become responsible for the continued distribution and commercialization of COMETRIQ for the approved MTC indication in territories currently supported by Sobi and potentially other countries in the event that COMETRIQ is approved for commercial sale in such territories. 

Named Patient Use Program 

Through our agreement with Sobi, we established the infrastructure to make COMETRIQ available upon request under a named patient use, or NPU, program in countries of the European Union and in other regions outside of the United States where it is not yet commercially approved. An NPU program provides access to drugs unapproved in that country, but approved elsewhere, for a single patient or a group of patients in a particular country. 

Following a transition period our NPU program will be transferred to Ipsen. 

XL888 

XL888 is an Exelixis-discovered highly potent small molecule oral inhibitor of Heat Shock Protein 90 (HSP90), a molecular chaperone protein that affects the activity and stability of a range of key regulatory proteins, including kinases such as BRAF, MET and VEGFR2, which are implicated in cancer cell proliferation and survival. After completing phase 1 testing of the compound, we deprioritized XL888 and our other pipeline assets to focus our limited resources on our lead compound, cabozantinib. Investigators at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center went on to conduct additional preclinical work showing activity of XL888 in vemurafenib-resistant melanoma models, the results of which provided the rationale for the initiation of an investigator-sponsored phase 1 trial conducted by investigators at the Moffitt Cancer Center. 

In November 2014, we announced positive preliminary results from this phase 1 trial, which evaluated the safety and activity of XL888 in combination with vemurafenib in patients with unresectable stage III/IV BRAF V600 mutation-positive melanoma. The primary endpoint of the trial was to determine the safety and tolerability of the combination, including determination of a maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, for XL888. Secondary endpoints included objective response rate (RECIST-1 criteria), estimates of PFS and OS, and analysis of pharmacodynamic biomarkers. The trial had enrolled fifteen subjects, and at the time of data cut-off, objective tumor regression was observed in 11 of 12 response-evaluable patients (two complete responses and nine partial responses), for an objective response rate of 92%. Safety data for the combination identified tolerable dose levels of XL888 with full dose vemurafenib. 

Based on these results, as well as findings from coBRIM, the phase 3 pivotal trial of cobimetinib, an Exelixis-discovered MEK inhibitor, and vemurafenib in previously untreated metastatic melanoma patients with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, investigators at the Moffitt Cancer Center plan to initiate a phase 1b IST of the triple combination of vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and XL888 in a similar patient population. 

Collaborations 

Cabozantinib Collaboration 

On February 29, 2016, we entered into &#32;a collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen for the commercialization and further development of cabozantinib. Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, Ipsen will have exclusive commercialization rights for current and potential future cabozantinib indications outside of the United States, Canada and Japan. The companies have agreed to collaborate on the development of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications. 

The parties&#8217; efforts will be governed through a joint steering committee and appropriate subcommittees established to guide and oversee the collaboration&#8217;s operation and strategic direction; provided, however, that we will retain final decision-making authority with respect to cabozantinib&#8217;s ongoing development. The agreement anticipates the transfer to Ipsen of sponsorship of our MAA for cabozantinib in RCC, currently on file with the EMA. It also anticipates transfer of Marketing Authorization Holder status for COMETRIQ for the MTC indication approved in the European Union to Ipsen and the transition of rights regarding COMETRIQ outside the United States from Sobi, our current international partner for COMETRIQ, to Ipsen, in accordance with the terms of our agreement with Sobi. 

In consideration for the exclusive license and other rights contained in the agreement, Ipsen will pay us an upfront payment of $200.0 million . We will be eligible to receive regulatory milestones, including a $60.0 million &#32;milestone payment upon approval of cabozantinib by the EMA in second-line RCC and milestone payments of $10.0 million &#32;upon the filing and $40.0 million &#32;upon the approval of cabozantinib in second-line HCC, as well as additional regulatory milestones payments for potential further indications. The agreement also provides that we will be eligible to receive payments of up to $545.0 million &#32;associated with potential commercial milestone payments, including two $10.0 million &#32;milestone payments upon the launch of the product in the first two of the following countries: Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Exelixis will also receive royalties on net sales of cabozantinib outside of the United States, Canada and Japan. We will receive a 2% &#32;royalty on the initial $50 million &#32;of net sales, and 12% &#32;royalty on the next $100 million &#32;of net sales. After this initial period, Exelixis will receive a tiered royalty of 22% &#32;to 26% &#32;on annual net sales. These tiers will reset each calendar year. Exelixis is responsible for funding cabozantinib related development costs for existing trials; development costs for potential future trials will be shared between the parties, with Ipsen to reimburse us for 35% &#32;of such costs. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we will remain responsible for the manufacture and supply of cabozantinib for all development and commercialization activities under the collaboration. As part of the collaboration, we entered into a supply agreement which provides that through the end of the second quarter of 2018, we will supply finished, labeled product to Ipsen for distribution in the territories outside of the United States, Canada and Japan, and from the end of the second quarter of 2018 forward, we will supply primary packaged bulk tablets to Ipsen. 

Unless terminated earlier, the agreement has a term that continues, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, until the latter of (i) the expiration of patent claims related to cabozantinib, (ii) the expiration of regulatory exclusivity covering cabozantinib or (iii) ten years after the first commercial sale of cabozantinib, other than COMETRIQ. The agreement may be terminated for cause by either party based on uncured material breach by the other party, bankruptcy of the other party or for safety reasons. We may terminate the agreement if Ipsen challenges or opposes any patent covered by the agreement. Ipsen may terminate the agreement if the FDA or EMA orders or requires substantially all cabozantinib clinical trials to be terminated or if the EMA refuses to approve our MAA for cabozantinib in advanced RCC in such region. Ipsen also has the right to terminate the agreement on a region-by-region basis after the first commercial sale of cabozantinib in advanced RCC in the given region. Upon termination by either party, all licenses granted by us to Ipsen will automatically terminate, and, except in the event of a termination by Ipsen for our material breach, the licenses granted by Ipsen to us shall survive such termination and shall automatically become worldwide, or, if Ipsen terminated only for a particular region, then for the terminated region. Following termination by us for Ipsen&#8217;s material breach, or termination by Ipsen without cause or because we undergo a change of control by a party engaged in a competing program, Ipsen is prohibited from competing with us for a period of time. 

Cobimetinib Collaboration 

Our second most advanced asset is cobimetinib (GDC-0973/XL518) which we discovered. Cobimetinib is a potent, highly selective inhibitor of MEK, a kinase that is a component of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. This pathway mediates signaling downstream of growth factor receptors, and is prominently activated in a wide variety of human tumors. In December 2006, we out-licensed the development and commercialization of cobimetinib to Genentech pursuant to a worldwide collaboration agreement. The FDA approved cobimetinib in the United States under the brand name COTELLIC on November 10, 2015. It is indicated in combination with vemurafenib as a treatment for patients with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation-positive advanced melanoma. COTELLIC in combination with vemurafenib has also been approved in Switzerland, the European Union and Canada for use in the same indication. 

Genentech paid upfront and milestone payments of $25.0 &#32;million in December 2006 and $15.0 &#32;million in January 2007 upon signing of the collaboration agreement and with the submission of the IND application for cobimetinib. Under the terms of the agreement, we were responsible for developing cobimetinib through the determination of the maximum-tolerated dose, or MTD in a phase 1 clinical trial, and Genentech had the option to co-develop cobimetinib, which Genentech could exercise after receipt of certain phase 1 data from us. In March 2008, Genentech exercised its option to co-develop cobimetinib, triggering a payment to us of $3.0 million. In March 2009, we granted to Genentech an exclusive worldwide revenue-bearing license to cobimetinib, at which point Genentech became responsible for completing the phase 1 clinical trial and subsequent clinical development. We received an additional $7.0 million payment in March 2010. 

In July 2014, we announced positive top-line results from coBRIM, the phase 3 pivotal trial conducted by Genentech evaluating cobimetinib in combination with vemurafenib in previously untreated patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic melanoma harboring a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation. Data were subsequently presented at European Society for Medical Oncology in September 2014. The trial met its primary endpoint of demonstrating a statistically significant increase in investigator-determined PFS. The median PFS was 9.9 months for the combination of cobimetinib and vemurafenib versus 6.2 months for vemurafenib alone (HR=0.51, 95 percent CI 0.39-0.68; p&#60;0.0001), demonstrating the combination reduced the risk of the disease worsening by half (49 percent). The median PFS as established by an IRRC, a secondary endpoint, was 11.3 months for the combination arm compared to 6.0 months for the control arm (HR=0.60, 95 percent CI 0.45-0.79; p=0.0003). Objective response rate, another secondary endpoint, was 68% for the combination versus 45% for vemurafenib alone (p&#60;0.0001). Updated results for PFS and ORR from coBRIM were presented at the 2015 Annual Meeting of the ASCO and showed a median PFS of 12.3 months for vemurafenib plus cobimetinib versus 7.2 months for vemurafenib alone (HR=0.58, 95 percent CI 0.46-0.72) and an ORR of 70% for the combination of vemurafenib and cobimetinib versus 50% for vemurafenib alone. In November 2015, we announced that the coBRIM trial also met its OS secondary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant increase in OS for the combination of cobimetinib and vemurafenib compared to vemurafenib monotherapy. The median OS was 22.3 months for the combination of cobimetinib and vemurafenib versus 17.4 months for vemurafenib alone, corresponding to a 30% reduction in the rate of death for the combination as compared to vemurafenib alone (HR=0.70, 95 percent CI 0.55-0.90, p= 0.005). The safety profile of the combination was consistent with that observed in a previous study. 

coBRIM served as the basis for the regulatory approval of COTELLIC in combination with vemurafenib as a treatment for patients with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation-positive advanced melanoma in the United States, Switzerland, the European Union and Canada. 

In addition to the coBRIM trial, additional Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are ongoing studying the combination of cobimetinib with a variety of agents in multiple tumor types. These include: 

&#8226; 

The combination of cobimetinib and vemuarfenib in additional melanoma patient populations and settings; 

&#8226; 

A phase 2 trial of cobimetinib in combination with paclitaxel in triple negative breast cancer; and 

&#8226; 

Phase 1 studies of cobimetinib in combination with atezolizumab in melanoma, NSCLC and colorectal cancer, in combination with MEHD7945A in KRAS mutant solid tumors including NSCLC and colorectal cancer and in combination with GDC-0994 in advanced metastatic solid tumors. 

A complete listing of all ongoing trials can be found at www.clinicaltrials.gov. 

Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Genentech for cobimetinib, we are entitled to a share of U.S. profits and losses for cobimetinib. The profit share has multiple tiers: we are entitled to 50% &#32;of profits and losses from the first $200 million &#32;of U.S. actual sales, decreasing to 30% &#32;of profits and losses from U.S. actual sales in excess of $400 million . We are entitled to low double-digit royalties on ex-U.S. net sales. In November 2013, we exercised an option under the collaboration agreement to co-promote in the United States, if commercialized. Following the approval of COTELLIC in the 

United States in November 2015, we began fielding 25% &#32;of the sales force promoting COTELLIC in combination with vemurafenib as a treatment for patients with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation-positive advanced melanoma. 

We believe that cobimetinib has the potential to provide us with a second meaningful source of revenue. Our objective, therefore, is to continue to work with Genentech on the execution of the U.S. COTELLIC commercial plan and maximize the revenue potential of cobimetinib under our collaboration with Genentech. We have accrued for our COTELLIC expense obligations under the collaboration agreement, but are in discussions with Genentech over the level and type of expenses that have been allocated to COTELLIC under the collaboration. 

Other Collaborations 

We have established collaborations with other leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sanofi, Merck (known as MSD outside of the United States and Canada) and Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited, or Daiichi Sankyo, for various compounds and programs in our portfolio. Pursuant to these collaborations, we have fully out-licensed compounds or programs to a partner for further development and commercialization. We have no further development cost obligations under our collaborations and may be entitled to receive milestones and royalties, or in the case of cobimetinib, a share of profits (or losses) from commercialization. 

With respect to our partnered compounds, other than cabozantinib and cobimetinib, we are eligible to receive potential contingent payments totaling approximately $2.3 billion &#32;in the aggregate on a non-risk adjusted basis, of which 10% &#32;are related to clinical development milestones, 42% &#32;are related to regulatory milestones and 48% &#32;are related to commercial milestones, all to be achieved by the various licensees, which may not be paid, if at all, until certain conditions are met. 

Bristol-Myers Squibb - ROR Collaboration Agreement &#32; 

In October 2010, we entered into a worldwide collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb pursuant to which each party granted to the other certain intellectual property licenses to enable the parties to discover, optimize and characterize ROR antagonists that may subsequently be developed and commercialized by Bristol-Myers Squibb. In November 2010, we received a nonrefundable upfront cash payment of $5.0 million from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Additionally, for each product developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb under the collaboration, we will be eligible to receive payments upon the achievement by Bristol-Myers Squibb of development and regulatory milestones of up to $252.5 million in the aggregate and commercialization milestones of up to $150.0 million in the aggregate, as well as royalties on commercial sales of any such products. The collaboration agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. 

Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, we were responsible for activities related to the discovery, optimization and characterization of the ROR antagonists during the collaborative research period. In July 2011, we earned a $2.5 million milestone payment for achieving certain lead optimization criteria. The collaborative research period began on October 8, 2010 and ended on July 8, 2013. Since the end of the collaborative research period, Bristol-Myers Squibb has and will continue to have sole responsibility for any further research, development, manufacture and commercialization of products developed under the collaboration and will bear all costs and expenses associated with those activities. 

Bristol-Myers Squibb may, at any time, terminate the collaboration agreement upon certain prior notice to us on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement for the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb at will or by us for Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s uncured material breach, the license granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb would terminate, the right to such product would revert to us and we would receive a royalty-bearing license for late-stage reverted compounds and a royalty-free license for early-stage reverted compounds from Bristol-Myers Squibb to develop and commercialize such product in the related country. In the event of termination by Bristol-Myers Squibb for our uncured material breach, Bristol-Myers Squibb would retain the right to such product, subject to continued payment of milestones and royalties. 

Bristol-Myers Squibb - LXR Collaboration &#32; 

In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb for the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies targeted against LXR, a nuclear hormone receptor implicated in a variety of cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. This agreement became effective in January 2006, at which time we granted Bristol-Myers Squibb an exclusive worldwide license with respect to certain intellectual property primarily relating to compounds that modulate LXR, including BMS-852927 (XL041). During the research term, we jointly identified drug candidates with Bristol-Myers Squibb that were ready for IND-enabling studies. After the selection of a drug candidate for further clinical development by Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bristol-Myers Squibb agreed to be solely responsible for further preclinical development as well as clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing and sales/marketing activities for the selected drug candidate. We do not have rights to reacquire the drug candidates selected by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The research 

term expired in January 2010 and we transferred the technology to Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2011 to enable it to continue the LXR program. BMS has terminated development of XL041 and we have been advised that BMS is continuing additional preclinical research on the program. The collaboration agreement was amended and restated in April 2011 in connection with an assignment of patents to a wholly-owned subsidiary. 

Under the collaboration agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid us a nonrefundable upfront cash payment in the amount of $17.5 million and was obligated to provide research and development funding of $10.0 million per year for an initial research period of two years. In September 2007, the collaboration was extended at Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s request through January 12, 2009, and in November 2008, the collaboration was further extended at Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s request through January 12, 2010. Under the collaboration agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb is required to pay us contingent amounts associated with development and regulatory milestones of up to $138.0 million per product for up to two products from the collaboration. In addition, we are also entitled to receive payments associated with sales milestones of up to $225.0 million and royalties on sales of any products commercialized under the collaboration. In connection with the extension of the collaboration through January 2009 and subsequently through January 2010, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid us additional research funding of approximately $7.7 million and approximately $5.8 million, respectively. In December 2007, we received $5.0 million in connection with the achievement by Bristol-Myers Squibb of a development milestone with respect to BMS-852927 (XL041). 

Sanofi 

In May 2009, we entered into a global license agreement with Sanofi for SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765), leading inhibitors of phosphoinositide-3 kinase, or PI3K, and a broad collaboration for the discovery of inhibitors of PI3K for the treatment of cancer. The license agreement and collaboration agreement became effective on July 7, 2009. In connection with the effectiveness of the license and collaboration, on July 20, 2009, we received upfront payments of $140.0 million ($120.0 million for the license and $20.0 million for the collaboration), less applicable withholding taxes of $7.0 million, for a net receipt of $133.0 million. We received a refund payment in December 2011 with respect to the withholding taxes previously withheld. 

Under the license agreement, Sanofi received a worldwide exclusive license to SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765), which are in phase 1, phase 1b/2 or phase 2 clinical trials, and has sole responsibility, including funding, for all subsequent clinical, regulatory, commercial and manufacturing activities. We will be eligible to receive contingent payments associated with development, regulatory and commercial milestones under the license agreement of $745.0 million in the aggregate, as well as royalties on sales of any products commercialized under the license. Sanofi may, upon certain prior notice to us, terminate the license as to products containing SAR245408 (XL147) and SAR245409 (XL765). In the event of such termination election, Sanofi&#8217;s license relating to such product would terminate and revert to us, and we would receive, subject to certain terms, conditions and potential payment obligations, licenses from Sanofi to research, develop and commercialize such products. 

In December 2011, we entered into an agreement with Sanofi pursuant to which the parties terminated the discovery collaboration agreement and released each other from any potential liabilities arising under the collaboration agreement prior to effectiveness of the termination in December 2011. Each party retains ownership of the intellectual property that it generated under the collaboration agreement, and we granted Sanofi covenants not-to-enforce with respect to certain of our intellectual property rights. The termination agreement also provided that Sanofi would make a payment to us of $15.3 million, which we received in January 2012. If either party or its affiliate or licensee develops and commercializes a therapeutic product containing an isoform-selective PI3K inhibitor that arose from such party&#8217;s work (or was derived from such work) under the collaboration agreement, then such party will be obligated to pay royalties to the other party based upon the net sales of such products. The termination agreement provides that Sanofi will make a one-time payment to us upon the first receipt by Sanofi or its affiliate or licensee of marketing approval for the first therapeutic product containing an isoform-selective PI3K inhibitor that arose from Sanofi&#8217;s work (or was derived from such work) under the collaboration agreement. 

Merck 

In December 2011, we entered into an agreement with Merck pursuant to which we granted Merck an exclusive worldwide license to our PI3K-delta, or PI3K-d, program, including XL499 and other related compounds. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Merck has sole responsibility to research, develop, and commercialize compounds from our PI3K-d program. The agreement became effective in December 2011. 

Merck paid us an upfront cash payment of $12.0 million in January 2012 in connection with the agreement. We will be eligible to receive payments associated with the successful achievement of potential development and regulatory milestones for multiple indications of up to $239.0 million. We will also be eligible to receive payments for combined sales performance milestones of up to $375.0 million &#32;and royalties on net-sales of products emerging from the agreement. Contingent payments associated with milestones achieved by Merck and royalties are payable on compounds emerging from our PI3K-d program or 

from certain compounds that arise from Merck&#8217;s internal discovery efforts targeting PI3K-d during a certain period. In July 2015 we received a $3.0 million milestone payment from Merck in connection with Merck&#8217;s selection of a compound from our PI3K-d program to advance into clinical trials. 

Merck may at any time, upon specified prior notice to us, terminate the license. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement for the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach. In the event of termination by Merck at will or by us for Merck&#8217;s uncured material breach, the license granted to Merck would terminate. In the event of a termination by us for Merck&#8217;s uncured material breach, we would receive a royalty-free license from Merck to develop and commercialize certain joint products. In the event of termination by Merck for our uncured material breach, Merck would retain the licenses from us, and we would receive reduced royalties from Merck on commercial sales of products. 

Daiichi Sankyo 

In March 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies targeted against the mineralocorticoid receptor, or MR, a nuclear hormone receptor implicated in a variety of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted to Daiichi Sankyo an exclusive, worldwide license to certain intellectual property primarily relating to compounds that modulate MR, including CS-3150 (an isomer of XL550). Daiichi Sankyo is responsible for all further preclinical and clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing and commercialization activities for the compounds and we do not have rights to reacquire such compounds, except as described below. 

Daiichi Sankyo paid us a nonrefundable upfront payment in the amount of $20.0 million and was obligated to provide research and development funding of $3.8 million over a 15-month research term. In June 2007, our collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo was amended to extend the research term by six months over which Daiichi Sankyo was required to provide $1.5 million in research and development funding. In November 2007, the parties decided not to further extend the research term. For each product from the collaboration, we are also entitled to receive payments upon attainment of pre-specified development, regulatory and commercialization milestones. In December 2010, we received a milestone payment of $5.0 million in connection with an IND filing made by Daiichi Sankyo for CS-3150 and, in August 2012, we received a milestone payment of $5.5 million in connection with the initiation of a phase 2 clinical trial for CS-3150. CS-3150 is currently the subject of Phase 2 trials for patients in Japan with hypertension, hypertension with renal impairment, and hypertension with diabetic nephropathy. We are eligible to receive additional development, regulatory and commercialization milestone payments of up to $145.0 million. In addition, we are also entitled to receive royalties on any sales of certain products commercialized under the collaboration. Daiichi Sankyo may terminate the agreement upon 90 days&#8217; written notice in which case Daiichi Sankyo&#8217;s payment obligations would cease, its license relating to compounds that modulate MR would terminate and revert to us and we would receive, subject to certain terms and conditions, licenses from Daiichi Sankyo to research, develop and commercialize compounds, that were discovered under the collaboration. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We do not own or operate manufacturing or distribution facilities or resources for clinical or commercial production and distribution of COMETRIQ. Instead, we deploy internal resources to manage and oversee third parties working on our behalf under contract. These third parties manufacture raw materials, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product for use in clinical studies and for commercial distribution. All manufacturing occurs at facilities that comply with FDA requirements and the requirements of regulatory agencies from the other jurisdictions where we have obtained approval or are seeking approval. 

The suppliers of our clinical and commercial supplies are located in multiple countries. Raw materials are sourced from multiple third-party suppliers in Asia and North America. Contract manufacturers in Europe and North America then convert these raw materials into API for clinical and commercial purposes. We use different contract manufacturers to supply finished drug product for clinical purposes and for commercial purposes. We use a single third party logistics provider to handle shipping and warehousing of our commercial supply of COMETRIQ in the United States and a single specialty pharmacy to dispense COMETRIQ to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. Should cabozantinib be approved by the FDA for advanced RCC, our warehousing and distribution model will expand appropriately for commercial supply of that larger market. Outside the U.S., we currently rely on Sobi, to distribute and commercialize COMETRIQ; however, following a transition period, the responsibility for distribution and commercialization of COMETRIQ, and for the COMETRIQ NPU program, will transfer to Ipsen under the terms of our collaboration. 

We are confident in the reliability of this supply chain and intend to continue to rely upon it for the foreseeable future. 

Government Regulation 

The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, distribution, export, import, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. 

The process required by the FDA before product candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#8226; 

preclinical laboratory and animal tests that must be conducted in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices; 

&#8226; 

submission of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; 

&#8226; 

adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug candidate for its intended use; 

&#8226; 

pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities and selected clinical investigators for their compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, and Good Clinical Practices, or GCP; and 

&#8226; 

FDA approval of a NDA for commercial marketing, or of an NDA supplement, for approval of a new indication if the product is already approved for another indication. 

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. Prior to commencing the first clinical trial with a product candidate, we must submit an IND to the FDA. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. A separate submission to the existing IND must be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development. Further, an independent institutional review board for each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and provide its informed consent form before the trial commences at that center. Regulatory authorities or an institutional review board or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

For purposes of NDA approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap. 

&#8226; 

Phase 1 &#8211; Studies are initially conducted in a limited patient population to test the product candidate for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion in healthy humans or patients. 

&#8226; 

Phase 2 &#8211; Studies are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specified disease in order to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. Multiple phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive phase 3 clinical trials. In some cases, a sponsor may decide to run what is referred to as a &#8220;phase 2b&#8221; evaluation, which is a second, confirmatory phase 2 trial that could, if positive, serve as a pivotal trial in the approval of a product candidate. 

&#8226; 

Phase 3 &#8211; When phase 2 evaluations demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and has an acceptable safety profile, phase 3 trials are undertaken in large patient populations to further evaluate dosage, to provide replicate statistically significant evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population at multiple clinical trial sites. 

The FDA may require, or companies may pursue, additional clinical trials after a product is approved. These so-called phase 4 studies may be made a condition to be satisfied after a drug receives approval. Failure to satisfy such post-marketing commitments can result in FDA enforcement action, up and to including withdrawal of NDA approval. The results of phase 4 studies can confirm the effectiveness of a product candidate and can provide important safety information to augment the FDA&#8217;s adverse drug reaction reporting system. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA, or as part of an NDA supplement. The submission of an NDA or NDA supplement requires payment of a substantial user fee to FDA. The FDA may convene an advisory committee to provide clinical insight on NDA review questions. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA or NDA supplement by way of a Complete Response letter if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional clinical data and/or an additional pivotal phase 3 clinical trial. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA or NDA supplement does not satisfy the criteria for approval. An NDA may be approved with significant restrictions on its labeling, marketing and distribution under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if ongoing regulatory standards are not met or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. In addition, the FDA may 

require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. 

Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes several years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of product candidates or new diseases for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. The FDA or any other regulatory agency may not grant approvals for new indications for our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. Targets and pathways identified in vitro may be determined to be less relevant in clinical studies and results in animal model studies may not be predictive of human clinical results. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with GMP, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. 

The FDA closely regulates the marketing and promotion of drugs. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may, in their independent medical judgment, prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the product&#8217;s labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, restrict manufacturers&#8217; communications on the subject of off-label use. Additionally, a significant number of pharmaceutical companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various U.S. federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities in connection with the promotion of products for off-label uses and other sales practices. These investigations have alleged violations of various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, false claims laws, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. 

The United States Orphan Drug Act promotes the development of products that demonstrate promise for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Upon FDA receipt of Orphan Drug Designation, the sponsor is eligible for tax credits of up to 50% for qualified clinical trial expenses, the ability to apply for annual grant funding, waiver of PDUFA application fee, and upon approval, the potential for seven years of market exclusivity for the orphan-designated product for the orphan-designated indication. 

The FDA has various programs, including Fast Track, priority review and accelerated approval, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for developing and reviewing promising drugs, or to provide for the approval of a drug on the basis of a surrogate endpoint. Generally, drugs that are eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. For example, Fast Track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions and fill unmet medical needs. Priority review is designed to give drugs that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists an initial review within six months of NDA filing as compared to a standard review time of 10 months from NDA filing. Although Fast Track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a Fast Track designated drug and expedite review of the application for a drug designated for priority review. Accelerated approval provides for an earlier approval for a new drug that is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and that fills an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a product candidate receiving accelerated approval perform post-marketing clinical trials to confirm the clinically meaningful outcome as predicted by the surrogate marker trial. In addition to the Fast Track, accelerated approval and priority review programs, the FDA also designates Breakthrough Therapy status to drugs that are intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also 

eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA will seek to ensure the sponsor of a breakthrough therapy product candidate receives: intensive guidance on an efficient drug development program; intensive involvement of senior managers and experienced staff on a proactive, collaborative and cross-disciplinary review; and rolling review. 

Regulation Outside of the United States 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to regulations of other countries governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products outside of the United States. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States before we can commence clinical trials in such countries and approval of the regulators of such countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we may market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessments report, each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a product as an Orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. 

Healthcare Regulation 

Federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, also apply to our business. If we fail to comply with those laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: the federal Anti&#8209;Kickback Statute, which prohibits. among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third&#8209;party payers that are false or fraudulent. Additionally, we are subject to state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, which may be broader in scope and apply regardless of payer, and many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, further complicate compliance efforts. 

Numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who are expected to prescribe our products and from whom we obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HIPPA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPPA, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered entity, including healthcare providers, in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business. International laws, such as the EU Data Privacy Directive (95/46/EC) and Swiss Federal Act on Data Protection, regulate the processing of personal data within Europe and between European countries and the United States. Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with safe harbor mechanisms could jeopardize business transactions across borders and result in significant penalties. 

In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the PPACA, created a federal requirement under the federal Open Payments program, that requires certain manufacturers to track and report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, annually certain payments and other transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals made in the previous calendar year. In addition, there are 

also an increasing number of state laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on pricing and marketing information. These laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by imposing administrative and compliance burdens on us. In addition, given the lack of clarity with respect to these laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state and federal authorities. 

For those marketed products which are covered in the United States by the Medicaid programs, we have various obligations, including government price reporting and rebate requirements, which generally require products be offered at substantial rebates/discounts to Medicaid and certain purchasers (including &#8220;covered entities&#8221; purchasing under the 340B Drug Discount Program). We are also required to discount such products to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, under which additional laws and requirements apply. These programs require submission of pricing data and calculation of discounts and rebates pursuant to complex statutory formulas, as well as the entry into government procurement contracts governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and the guidance governing such calculations is not always clear. Compliance with such requirements can require significant investment in personnel, systems and resources, but failure to properly calculate our prices, or offer required discounts or rebates could subject us to substantial penalties. &#32; One component of the rebate and discount calculations under the Medicaid and 340B programs, respectively, is the &#8220;additional rebate&#8221;, a complex calculation which is based, in part, on the rate at which a branded drug price increases over time more than the rate of inflation (based on the CPI-U). This comparison is based on the baseline pricing data for the first full quarter of sales associated with a branded drug&#8217;s NDA, and baseline data cannot generally be reset, even on transfer of the NDA to another manufacturer. This &#8220;additional rebate&#8221; calculation can, in some cases where price increase have been relatively high versus the first quarter of sales of the NDA, result in Medicaid rebates up to 100% of a drug&#8217;s &#8220;average manufacturer price&#8221; and 340B prices of one penny. Subject to the control of Directive 89/105/EEC, pricing and reimbursement in the EU/EEA is governed by national rules and policy and may vary from Member State to Member State. 

Reimbursement 

Sales of COMETRIQ, COTELLIC and any future products of ours will depend, in part, on the extent to which their costs will be covered by third-party payers, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Moreover, a third-party payer&#8217;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Additionally, one third-party payer&#8217;s decision to cover a particular drug product does not ensure that other payers will also provide coverage for the drug product, or will provide coverage at an adequate reimbursement rate. 

In the United States and other potentially significant markets for our products, government authorities and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative &#32; products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country-specific and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. There has been particular and increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to specialty drug pricing practices over the course of 2015, particularly with respect to drugs that have been subject to relatively large price increases over relatively short time periods. There have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has already been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives, including, for example, the PPACA. The PPACA, among other things, imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. It also contains substantial provisions intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, and impose additional health policy reforms, any or all of which may affect our business. The PPACA, compounded by the intense public scrutiny of drug pricing in the United States, is likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Other legislative changes have also been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. For example, the Budget Control Act of 2011 resulted in aggregate reductions in Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, 

starting in 2013, and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Such laws, and others that may affect our business that have been recently enacted or may in the future be enacted, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding. In the future, there will likely continue to be additional proposals relating to the reform of the United States healthcare system, some of which could further limit coverage and reimbursement of drug products, including our product candidates. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products. 

In addition, in some non-U.S. jurisdictions, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Historically, products launched in the European Union do not follow the price structures of the United States and generally tend to be priced significantly lower. 

Competition 

There are many companies focused on the development of small molecules and antibodies for cancer. Our competitors and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical and other resources than we do, which may allow them to have a competitive advantage. 

Competition for Cabozantinib 

We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: 

&#8226; 

efficacy, safety and reliability of cabozantinib; 

&#8226; 

timing and scope of regulatory approval; 

&#8226; 

the speed at which we develop cabozantinib for the treatment of additional tumor types beyond progressive, metastatic MTC; 

&#8226; 

our ability to complete preclinical testing and clinical development and obtain regulatory approvals for cabozantinib; 

&#8226; 

our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of cabozantinib to the market; 

&#8226; 

our ability to successfully commercialize cabozantinib and secure coverage and adequate reimbursement in approved indications; 

&#8226; 

product acceptance by physicians and other health care providers; 

&#8226; 

skills of our employees and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; 

&#8226; 

protection of our intellectual property; and 

&#8226; 

the availability of substantial capital resources to fund development and commercialization activities. 

We believe that the quality and breadth of activity observed with cabozantinib, the skill of our employees and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees, our patent portfolio and our capabilities for research and drug development are competitive strengths. However, many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significantly larger intellectual property estates than we do, more substantial capital resources than we have, and greater capabilities and experience than we do in preclinical and clinical development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and regulatory affairs. 

The markets for which we intend to pursue regulatory approval of cabozantinib are highly competitive. We are aware of products in research or development by our competitors that are intended to treat all of the tumor types we are targeting, and should they demonstrate suitable clinical evidence, any of these products may compete with cabozantinib. 

Should cabozantinib be approved for the treatment of advanced RCC as a result of positive results from the METEOR trial, its principal competition may include: Pfizer&#8217;s axitinib, sunitinib and temsirolimus; Novartis&#8217; everolimus and pazopanib; Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s nivolumab; Bayer&#8217;s and Onyx Pharmaceuticals&#8217; sorafenib; Genentech&#8217;s bevacizumab; and Eisai&#8217;s 

lenvatinib. The potential for immediate competition from Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s nivolumab is particularly significant. Nivolumab was approved for the treatment of advanced RCC on November 23, 2015, following a rapid review by the FDA. That approval was based in large part on the results of Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s phase 3 trial comparing nivolumab to everolimus in patients who had received previous antiangiogenic therapy for advanced RCC (Checkmate 025), in which nivolumab met its primary endpoint of showing a statistically-significant improvement in OS over everolimus, a current standard of care for the treatment of second line RCC patients. Nivolumab failed to demonstrate a statistically-significant PFS benefit over everolimus. Nivolumab also demonstrated an acceptable safety profile and may be rapidly adopted by physicians for the treatment of advanced RCC. 

Should cabozantinib be approved for the treatment of HCC, the other indication for which we have an ongoing phase 3 pivotal trial, its principal competition may include: Bayer&#8217;s and Onyx Pharmaceuticals&#8217; sorafenib; Bayer&#8217;s regorafenib; ArQule&#8217;s tivantinib; Eisai&#8217;s lenvatinib; Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s nivolumab; and Eli Lilly and Company&#8217;s ramucirumab. 

The principal competing anti-cancer therapy to COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC is AstraZeneca&#8217;s RET, VEGFR and EGFR inhibitor vandetanib, approved by the FDA and the EMA for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive MTC in patients with unresectable, locally advanced, or metastatic disease. On October 21, 2015, AstraZeneca announced the global completion of the sale of vandetanib to Genzyme, a Sanofi company. We anticipate the potential for increased competition for COMETRIQ in progressive, metastatic MTC as a result of the consolidation of vandetanib into Genzyme&#8217;s endocrinology portfolio and the company&#8217;s rare disease expertise. In addition, COMETRIQ also faces competition as a treatment for progressive, metastatic MTC from off-label use of Bayer&#8217;s and Onyx Pharmaceuticals&#8217; (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amgen) multikinase inhibitor sorafenib, Pfizer&#8217;s multikinase inhibitor sunitinib, Ariad Pharmaceutical&#8217;s multikinase inhibitor ponatinib, Novartis&#8217; multikinase inhibitor pazopanib, and Eisai&#8217;s multikinase inhibitor lenvatinib. 

Examples of potential competition for cabozantinib in other cancer indications include: other VEGF pathway inhibitors, including Genentech&#8217;s bevacizumab; other RET inhibitors including Eisai&#8217;s lenvatinib and Ariad&#8217;s ponatinib; and other MET inhibitors, including Amgen&#8217;s AMG 208, Pfizer&#8217;s crizotinib, ArQule&#8217;s tivantinib, and Mirati&#8217;s MGCD265; and immunotherapies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s ipilimumab and nivolimab, Merck&#8217;s pembrolizumab and Genentech&#8217;s atezolizumab. 

Competition for Cobimetinib 

Cobimetinib&#8217;s principal competition amongst targeted agents may include: Novartis&#8217; trametinib and dabrafenib, and Array&#8217;s encorafenib and binimetinib; and within the class of immunotherapies, Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s ipilimumab and nivolumab and Merck&#8217;s pembrolizumab. The second category, immunotherapies, are of particular competitive importance vis-a-vis cobimetinib in advanced melanoma as they are already FDA approved in melanoma patient populations that overlap with those that may be eligible for cobimetinib, they have been rapidly incorporated into the National Comprehensive Cancer Network treatment guidelines, and they are viewed with a high degree of enthusiasm by physicians and key opinion leaders. Ongoing and future trials incorporating immune-oncology agents, including combination trials, may further impact usage of cobimetinib in melanoma and potentially in additional tumor types in which cobimetinib may ultimately gain approval. 

Financial Information and Significant Customers 

We operate as a single business segment and have operations primarily in the United States. In 2015, we derived 83% &#32;of our revenues from Diplomat Specialty Pharmacy, which is located in the United States. Information regarding total revenues, including geographic regions in which they are earned, net loss and total assets is set forth in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and development expenses were $96.4 million &#32;or the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $189.1 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $178.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Additional information about our research and development expenses in each of the last three fiscal years is set forth in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We actively seek patent protection in the United States, the European Union, and selected other foreign countries to cover our drug candidates and related technologies. Patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends on the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. We have numerous patents and pending patent applications that relate to methods of screening drug targets, compounds that modulate drug targets, as well as methods of making and using such compounds. 

While many patent applications have been filed relating to the drug candidates that we have developed, the majority of these are not yet issued or allowed. 

Cabozantinib is covered by an issued patent in the United States (U.S. Pat. No. 7,579,473) for the composition-of-matter of cabozantinib and pharmaceutical compositions thereof. Cabozantinib is also covered by an additional issued patent in the United States (covering certain methods of use) and also by an issued patent in Europe (covering cabozantinib&#8217;s composition-of-matter and certain methods of use) and an issued patent in Japan (covering cabozantinib composition-of-matter). These issued patents would normally expire in September 2024, but we have applied for patent term extension in the United States to extend the term to 2026, a Supplementary Protection Certificate in the Europe to extend the term to 2029 and a patent term extension in Japan to extend the term to 2029. Foreign counterparts of the issued United States and European patents are pending in Australia and Canada, which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in 2024. We have patent applications pending in the United States, the European Union, Australia, Japan and Canada covering certain synthetic methods related to making cabozantinib, which, if issued, are anticipated to expire in 2024. We have filed patent applications in the United States and other selected countries covering certain salts, polymorphs and formulations of cabozantinib that, if issued, are anticipated to expire in approximately 2030. We have filed several patent applications in the United States and other selected countries relating to combinations of cabozantinib with certain other anti-cancer agents that, if issued, are anticipated to expire in approximately 2030. 

Cobimetinib is covered by an issued patent in the United States (U. S. Pat. No 7,803,839) for the composition of matter of cobimetinib and pharmaceutical compositions thereof. Cobimetinib is also covered by an additional issued patent in the United States (covering certain methods of use) and also by an issued patent in Europe (covering cobimetinib&#8217;s composition-of-matter and certain methods of use). These issued patents will expire October 5, 2026, subject to any available extensions. Foreign counterparts of the issued United States and European patents are issued or pending in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, the Eurasian Patent Organization, Georgia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, and Ukraine. We have filed patent applications in the United States and other selected countries covering certain synthetic methods related to making cobimetinib, which if, issued, are anticipated to expire in approximately 2033. Cobimetinib is licensed to Genentech in the United States and to Roche outside of the United States. 

We have pending patent applications in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of our other drug candidates in clinical or preclinical development that, if issued, are anticipated to expire between 2023 and 2030. 

We have obtained licenses from various parties that give us rights to technologies that we deem to be necessary or desirable for our research and development. These licenses (both exclusive and non-exclusive) may require us to pay royalties as well as upfront and milestone payments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 115 full-time employees worldwide, 19 of whom held Ph.D. and/or M.D. degrees, most of whom were engaged in full-time research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our employee relations to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in November 1994 as Exelixis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and changed our name to Exelixis, Inc. in February 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 210 East Grand Ave., South San Francisco, California 94080. Our telephone number is (650) 837-7000. We maintain a site on the worldwide web at www.exelixis.com; however, information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

We make available free of charge on or through our website our Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further, copies of our filings with the SEC are available at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a site on the worldwide web that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 

