 Item 1. Business 

GENERAL 

First BanCorp. is a publicly owned financial holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. The Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to serve as the bank holding company for FirstBank. The Corporation is a full service provider of financial services and products with operations in Puerto Rico, the United States and the USVI and BVI. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation had total assets of $12.6 billion, total deposits of $9.3 billion and total stockholders’ equity of $1.7 billion. 

The Corporation provides a wide range of financial services for retail, commercial and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation controlled two wholly owned subsidiaries: FirstBank and FirstBank Insurance Agency, Inc. ("FirstBank Insurance Agency"). FirstBank is a Puerto Rico-chartered commercial bank, and FirstBank Insurance Agency is a Puerto Rico-chartered insurance agency. 

FirstBank is subject to the supervision, examination and regulation of both the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions ("OCIF") and the FDIC. Deposits are insured through the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition, within FirstBank, the Bank’s USVI operations are subject to regulation and examination by the United States Virgin Islands Banking Board; its BVI operations are subject to regulation by the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission; and its operations in the state of Florida are subject to regulation and examination by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and the FDIC. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFBP") regulates FirstBank’s consumer financial products and services. FirstBank Insurance Agency is subject to the supervision, examination and regulation of the Office of the Insurance Commissioner of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and operates three offices in Puerto Rico, and two offices in the USVI and BVI. 

FirstBank conducts its business through its main office located in San Juan, Puerto Rico, 51 banking branches in Puerto Rico as of December 31, 2015, 11 branches in the USVI and BVI, and 10 branches in the state of Florida (USA). As of December 31, 2015 FirstBank has 6 wholly owned subsidiaries with operations in Puerto Rico: First Federal Finance Corp. (d/b/a Money Express La Financiera), a finance company specializing in the origination of small loans with 27 offices in Puerto Rico; First Management of Puerto Rico, a domestic corporation, which holds tax-exempt assets; FirstBank Puerto Rico Securities Corp., a broker-dealer subsidiary engaged in municipal securities underwriting and selling for local Puerto Rico municipal bond issuers and other investment bearing activities, such as advisory services, capital raise efforts on behalf of clients and assist in financial transaction structuring; FirstBank Overseas Corporation, an international banking entity organized under the International Banking Entity Act of Puerto Rico; and two other companies that hold and operate certain particular other real estate owned properties. FirstBank had one active subsidiary with operations outside of Puerto Rico: First Express, a finance company specializing in the origination of small loans with 2 offices in the USVI. 

On February 27, 2015, FirstBank acquired 10 Puerto Rico branches of Doral Bank through an alliance with Banco Popular of Puerto Rico ("Popular"), who was the successful lead bidder with the FDIC on the failed Doral Bank, as well as other co-bidders (the "Doral Bank transaction"). This transaction is described in more detail in "Significant Events Since the Beginning of 2015" below. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

The Corporation has six reportable segments: Commercial and Corporate Banking; Consumer (Retail) Banking; Mortgage Banking; Treasury and Investments; United States Operations; and Virgin Islands Operations. These segments are described below as well as in Note 33, "Segment Information," to the Corporation’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Commercial and Corporate Banking 

The Commercial and Corporate Banking segment consists of the Corporation’s lending and other services for large customers represented by specialized and middle-market clients and the public sector. FirstBank has developed expertise in a wide variety of industries. The Commercial and Corporate Banking segment offers commercial loans, including commercial real estate and construction loans, and floor plan financings, as well as other products, such as cash management and business management services. A substantial portion of this portfolio is secured by the underlying value of the real estate collateral and the personal guarantees of the borrowers. This segment also includes the Corporation’s broker-dealer activities, which are primarily concentrated in the underwriting of municipal securities and financial advisory services. 

Consumer (Retail) Banking 

The Consumer (Retail) Banking segment consists of the Corporation’s consumer lending and deposit-taking activities conducted mainly through FirstBank’s branch network in Puerto Rico. Loans to consumers include auto, boat and personal loans, credit cards, and lines of credit. Deposit products include interest bearing and non-interest bearing checking and savings accounts, Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA) and retail certificates of deposit. Retail deposits gathered through each branch of FirstBank’s retail network serve as one of the funding sources for the lending and investment activities. 

Mortgage Banking 

These operations consist of the origination, sale, securitization and servicing of a variety of residential mortgage loan products and related hedging activities. Originations are sourced through different channels such as FirstBank branches and purchases from mortgage bankers, and in association with new project developers. The Mortgage Banking segment focuses on originating residential real estate loans, some of which conform to Federal Housing Administration (the "FHA"), Veterans Administration (the "VA") and Rural Development (the "RD") standards. Loans originated that meet the FHA’s standards qualify for the FHA’s insurance program whereas loans that meet the standards of the VA and RD are guaranteed by those respective federal agencies. 

Mortgage loans that do not qualify under these programs are commonly referred to as conventional loans. Conventional real estate loans can be conforming or non-conforming. Conforming loans are residential real estate loans that meet the standards for sale under the Fannie Mae ("FNMA") and Freddie Mac ("FHLMC") programs whereas loans that do not meet the standards are referred to as non-conforming residential real estate loans. The Corporation’s strategy is to penetrate markets by providing customers with a variety of high quality mortgage products to serve their financial needs through a faster and simpler process and at competitive prices. The Mortgage Banking segment also acquires and sells mortgages in the secondary markets. Residential real estate conforming loans are sold to investors like FNMA and FHLMC. Most of the Corporation’s residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of fixed-rate, fully amortizing, full documentation loans. The Corporation obtained commitment authority to issue Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA") mortgage-backed securities and, under this program, the Corporation has been selling FHA/VA mortgage loans into the secondary market. 

Treasury and Investments 

The Treasury and Investments segment is responsible for the Corporation’s treasury and investment management functions. The treasury function, which includes funding and liquidity management, lends funds to the Commercial and Corporate Banking, Mortgage Banking and Consumer (Retail) Banking segments to finance their respective lending activities and borrows from those segments and from the United States Operations segment. Funds not gathered by the different business units are obtained by the Treasury Division through wholesale channels, such as brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB"), and repurchase agreements with investment securities, among others. 

United States Operations 

The United States Operations segment consists of all banking activities conducted by FirstBank on the United States mainland. FirstBank provides a wide range of banking services to individual and corporate customers primarily in southern Florida through 10 branches. FirstBank’s success in attracting core deposits in Florida has enabled it to become less dependent on brokered CDs. The United States Operations segment offers an array of both retail and commercial banking products and services. Consumer banking products include checking, savings and money market accounts, retail certificates of deposit ("retail CDs"), internet banking services, residential mortgages, home equity loans, lines of credit, and automobile loans. Deposits gathered through FirstBank’s branches in the United States also serve as one of the funding sources for lending and investment activities in Puerto Rico. 

The commercial banking services include checking, savings and money market accounts, retail CDs, internet banking services, cash management services, remote data capture, and automated clearing house, or ACH, transactions. Loan products include the traditional commercial and industrial ("C&amp;I") and commercial real estate products, such as lines of credit, term loans and construction loans. 

Virgin Islands Operations 

The Virgin Islands Operations segment consists of all banking activities conducted by FirstBank in the USVI and BVI, including retail and commercial banking services, with a total of 11 branches serving the islands in the USVI of St. Thomas, St. Croix, and St. John, and the island of Tortola in the BVI. The Virgin Islands Operations segment is driven by its consumer, commercial lending and deposit-taking activities. 

Loans to consumers include auto, boat, lines of credit, and personal and residential mortgage loans. Deposit products include interest bearing and non-interest bearing checking and savings accounts, IRAs, and retail CDs. Retail deposits gathered through each branch serve as the funding sources for its own lending activities. 

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, the Corporation and its subsidiaries employed 2,758 persons. None of its employees is represented by a collective bargaining group. The Corporation considers its employee relations to be good. 

SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SINCE THE BEGINNING OF 2015 

Acquisition of Certain Assets and Deposits of Doral Bank 

On February 27, 2015, FirstBank acquired 10 Puerto Rico branches of Doral Bank, assumed $522.7 million in deposits related to such branches, acquired approximately $324.8 million in principal balance of loans, primarily residential mortgage loans, acquired $5.5 million of property, plant and equipment and received $217.7 million of cash, through an alliance with Popular, which was the successful lead bidder with the FDIC on the failed Doral Bank, as well as other co-bidders. This transaction solidified FirstBank as the second largest bank in Puerto Rico, enhanced FirstBank’s presence in geographical areas in Puerto Rico with growth potential for deposits and mortgage originations (two of the main business strategies of FirstBank), and provides a stable source of low-cost deposits that are expected to support and enhance future growth activities. 

Under the FDIC’s bidding format, Popular was the lead bidder and party to the purchase and assumption agreement with the FDIC covering all assets and deposits to be acquired by Popular and its alliance co-bidders. Popular entered into back to back purchase assumption agreements with the alliance co-bidders, including FirstBank, for the transferred assets and deposits. There is no loss-share arrangement with the FDIC related to the acquired assets, meaning that FirstBank will assume all losses with respect to such assets, with no financial assistance from the FDIC. 

The Corporation accounted for this transaction as a business combination. The application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in a bargain purchase gain of $13.4 million, which is included in non-interest income in the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income for year ended December 31, 2015, and a core deposit intangible of $5.8 million ($5.1 million as of December 31, 2015). During 2015, the Corporation incurred $4.6 million on acquisition and conversion costs related to loans and deposit accounts acquired from Doral that are considered non-recurring in nature, and $3.6 million on interim servicing costs until the completion in May 2015 of the conversion to the FirstBank systems. These expenses are primarily included as part of professional fees in the consolidated statement of income. 

Termination of Consent Order 

During the second quarter of 2015, FirstBank was notified by the FDIC that, effective April 29, 2015, the Consent Order under which FirstBank had been operating since June 2, 2010 was terminated . Although the FDIC Order was terminated, First BanCorp. is still subject to the Written Agreement entered into with the FED. 

Bulk sale of assets 

On June 5, 2015, the Corporation completed the sale of commercial and construction loans with a book value of $147.5 million (principal balance of $196.5 million), comprised mostly of non-performing and adversely classified loans, as well as other real estate owned ("OREO") properties with a book value of $2.9 million in a cash transaction. The sale price of this bulk sale was $87.3 million. Approximately $15.3 million of reserves had been allocated to the loans. This transaction resulted in total charge-offs of $61.4 million and an incremental pre-tax loss of $48.7 million, including $0.9 million in professional service fees directly attributable to this bulk sale. 

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment on Puerto Rico Government Obligations 

During 2015, the Corporation recorded $15.9 million in other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges on three Puerto Rico Government debt securities held by the Corporation as part of its available-for-sale securities portfolio, specifically bonds of the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico ("GDB") and the Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority. The credit-related impairment loss estimates were based on the probability of default and loss severity in the event of default in consideration of the latest available market-based evidence implied in current security valuations and information about the Puerto Rico Government’s financial condition, including credit ratings, payment defaults on other bonds, and "clawback" measures implemented to redirect revenues pledged to support bonds from certain government agencies to service the general obligation debt. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation owns Puerto Rico Government debt securities in the aggregate amortized cost of $49.7 million (net of the $15.9 million OTTI charges taken in 2015), recorded on its books at a fair value of $28.2 million. 

Sale of Merchant Contracts and Alliance Agreement 

Effective October 31, 2015, FirstBank entered into a long-term strategic marketing alliance with Evertec, Inc. ("Evertec") to which FirstBank sold its merchant contracts portfolio and related POS terminals. Evertec acquired FirstBank’s merchant contracts and will continue to provide processing services, customer service and support operations to FirstBank’s merchant locations. Merchant services will be marketed through FirstBank’s branches and offices in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Under the 10-year marketing and referral agreement, FirstBank and Evertec will share, in accordance with agreed terms, revenues generated by the existing and incremental merchant contracts over the term of the agreement. The Corporation sold the merchant contracts for $10.0 million, recorded a gain on sale of $7.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 and deferred $3.0 million to be recognized into income over the marketing and referral agreement term. 

Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive Program 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Corporation offered and completed a voluntary early retirement program for certain employees. Results for the fourth quarter of 2015 included charges of $2.2 million related to the early retirement program expense. The estimated annual saving from this program is expected to be approximately $1.9 million for 2016. 

Repurchase of Trust Preferred Securities 

During the first quarter of 2016, the Corporation completed the repurchase of trust preferred securities that were being auctioned in a public sale at which the Corporation was invited to participate. The Corporation repurchased and cancelled $10 million in trust preferred securities of the FBP Statutory Trust II, resulting in a commensurate reduction in the related Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debenture. 

The Corporation’s winning bid equated to 70% of the $10 million par value. The 30% discount, plus accrued interest, resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $4.2 million. As trust preferred securities no longer qualify for Tier 1 capital, the realized gain on the transaction contributed to an increase of approximately 5 basis points in the Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 capital ratios, an increase of approximately 4 basis points in the Leverage capital ratio, and a decrease of approximately 6 basis points in the Total Regulatory capital ratio. 

Puerto Rico Government Fiscal Situation, Government Actions and Exposure 

A significant portion of the Corporation’s financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico, which has endured a prolonged period of economic and fiscal challenges. 

On June 28, 2015, the Governor of Puerto Rico and the GDB released a report by former World Bank Chief Economist and former Deputy Director of the International Monetary Fund, Dr. Anne Krueger, and economists Dr. Ranjit Teja and Dr. Andrew Wolfe (the "Krueger Report") that analyzes the full extent of the Commonwealth’s fiscal condition including revenues, expenditures, deficits, and current and future obligations. It also makes recommendations for a five-year fiscal adjustment plan. The Krueger Report states that Puerto Rico faces an acute crisis in the face of faltering economic activity, fiscal solvency, debt sustainability, and institutional credibility. 

On June 29, 2015, the Governor of Puerto Rico announced that the Government will seek alternatives to ensure that the aggregate debt burden of the Commonwealth is adjusted so it can be repaid on sustainable terms, while ensuring pension obligations are honored over the long term and essential services for the people of Puerto Rico are maintained, and issued an Executive Order to create the Puerto Rico Fiscal and Economic Recovery Working Group (the "Working Group"). After the announcement, the top three credit rating agencies, Moody’s, S&amp;P and Fitch downgraded the Puerto Rico issued bonds deeper into non-investment grade status. 

The Working Group was created to consider necessary measures, including the measures recommended in the Krueger Report, to address the fiscal crisis of the Commonwealth and is responsible for the development of the Puerto Rico Fiscal and Economic Growth Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan, released in September 2015 and updated in January 2016, reviews the historical measures taken to increase taxes and reduce expenses, analyzes the current liquidity and fiscal position of Puerto Rico, recommends certain fiscal and economic reform and growth measures, including critical measures that require action by the U.S. Government, proposes to create a financial control board and new budgetary regulations, and identifies significant projected financing gaps (even assuming the implementation of the recommended fiscal reform and economic growth measures) absent significant debt relief. The updated Plan shows that General Fund revenues have decreased from a previous estimate of $9.46 billion for fiscal year 2016 to $9.21 billion; the estimated five-year projected financing gaps increase from approximately $14 billion to $16.1 billion, even with the inclusion of economic growth and the implementation of all the proposed measures in the Plan; and the ten-year projections estimate a $23.9 billion aggregate financing gap. 

Moreover, on October 21, 2015, the U.S. Department of Treasury (the "U.S. Treasury) released its roadmap to address Puerto Rico’s ongoing economic and fiscal crisis and to create a path to economic recovery. This roadmap was presented to Congress by U.S Treasury officials and laid out four immediate steps that U.S. Congress should take to address the crisis in Puerto Rico: 

- Provide Puerto Rico with the necessary tools to restructure its financial liabilities in a fair and orderly manner under the supervision of a federal bankruptcy court. 

- Enact strong fiscal oversight and help strengthen Puerto Rico’s fiscal governance. 

- Provide a long-term solution to Puerto Rico’s historically inadequate Medicaid treatment. 

- Reward work and support economic growth by providing access to an Earned Income Tax Credit. 

In August and December 2015 as well as in January 2016, the Puerto Rico Government met its scheduled debt service payments for bonds that have constitutional guarantees such as the general obligation bonds and GDB bonds. In order to meet the January 2016 payment, the Puerto Rico Government implemented "clawback" measures to redirect revenues assigned to certain government agencies for the payment of the general obligation debt. Nevertheless, the Puerto Rico Government defaulted in August 2015 and January 2016 on the payment of bonds of certain agencies, specifically bonds of the Public Finance Corporation and the Infrastructure Finance Authority. Government officials disclosed that due to the lack of appropriated funds by the Legislature of Puerto Rico, as part of the current fiscal year 2016 budget, the debt service payment on these public corporations bonds were not made. These bonds are payable solely from budgetary appropriations pursuant to legislation adopted by the Legislature of Puerto Rico. The Legislature of Puerto Rico is not legally bound to appropriate funds for such payments. 

Other measures adopted to deal with the Commonwealth’s deteriorating liquidity position include the deferral of tax refunds and the stretching of payments to suppliers. 

In February 2016, the Working Group released details of a comprehensive voluntary exchange proposal presented to advisors to the Commonwealth’s creditors. Specifically, the restructuring proposal contemplates that creditors will exchange their existing securities for two new securities: a "Base Bond," with a fixed rate of interest and amortization schedule, and a "Growth Bond," which is payable only if the Commonwealth’s revenues exceed certain levels. Under this proposal, the $49.2 billion of tax-supported debt would be exchanged into $26.5 billion of newly issued mandatorily payable Base Bonds and $22.7 billion of newly issued Growth Bonds. Interest payments on the Base Bonds would begin in January 2018, scaling up to 5% per annum by fiscal year 2021, when principal payments would begin. The Growth Bonds would be payable only to the extent the Commonwealth’s revenues exceed its current baseline projections as a result of real economic growth in Puerto Rico. The proposal also seeks to lower the Commonwealth’s debt service-to-revenue on tax-supported debt to approximately 15%, a level consistent with the debt limit contemplated by the Constitution of Puerto Rico, from the current ratio of 36%. The voluntary exchange offer is intended to restructure those payments to allow the Commonwealth to catch up with payments due to suppliers and taxpayers, and provides time for the Commonwealth to implement the measures of the Plan, stimulate real economic growth and, over the long term, make its tax-supported debt sustainable. In addition, the Commonwealth is instituting a fiscal control board to provide necessary oversight and ensure that the Commonwealth complies with the Plan and the terms of the exchange offer. Ultimate outcomes from the proposed exchange are uncertain at this time and may vary considerably from the initial proposal, particularly due to factors that are difficult to predict, such as U.S. federal actions to intervene in this matter and bondholders willingness to accept the proposed exchange levels. 

The U.S. House of Representatives Speaker, Paul Ryan, has asked legislators to craft a proposal to address the Puerto Rico debt situation by March 31, 2016, which may include a federal control board that would manage its budgets and borrowings. On February 2, 2016, the U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources held a hearing to evaluate the need for a federal oversight authority for Puerto Rico. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation had $316.0 million of credit facilities, excluding investment securities, extended to the Puerto Rico Government, its municipalities and public corporations, of which $314.6 million was outstanding (book value of $311.0 million), compared to $308.0 million as of December 31, 2014. Approximately $199.5 million of the granted credit facilities outstanding consisted of loans to municipalities in Puerto Rico whose revenues are independent of the central government. The good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality have been pledged to their repayment. Approximately 88% of the Corporation’s municipality exposure consists primarily of senior priority loans concentrated on five of the largest municipalities in Puerto Rico (San Juan, Carolina, Bayamon, Mayaguez and Guaynabo). These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Late in 2015, GDB and the Municipal Revenue Collection Center (CRIM) signed a deed of trust. Through this deed, the GDB, as fiduciary, is bound to keep the CRIM funds separate from any other deposits and the funds should be distributed by the GDB pursuant to the applicable law. In addition to municipalities, loans extended to the Puerto Rico Government include $18.9 million of loans to units of the Puerto Rico central government, and approximately $96.3 million ($92.6 million book value) of loans to public corporations, including a direct exposure to the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority ("PREPA") with a book value of $71.1 million as of December 31, 2015. The PREPA credit facility was placed in non-accrual status in the first quarter of 2015 and interest payments are now recorded on a cost-recovery basis. 

Furthermore, as of December 31, 2015, the Corporation had $129.4 million outstanding in financings to the hotel industry in Puerto Rico where the borrower and the operations of the underlying collateral are the primary sources of repayment and the Puerto Rico Tourism Development Fund (the "TDF") provides a secondary guarantee for payment performance, compared to $133.3 million as of December 31, 2014. The TDF is a subsidiary of the GDB that facilitates private sector financings to Puerto Rico’s hotel industry. The TDF provides guarantees to financings and may provide direct loans. As a result of liquidity risk and uncertainty regarding the Puerto Rico government fiscal situation, the Corporation adversely classified this $129.4 million exposure during the third quarter of 2015. Since late 2012, the Corporation has received combined payments from the borrowers and TDF as guarantor sufficient to cover contractual payments on these loans, including collections of principal and interest from TDF of approximately $5.3 million in 2015 and $6.1 million in 2014. These loans were current and remained in accrual status as of December 31, 2015. 

On March 1, 2016, the Working Group in an updated public presentation indicated that the Commonwealth expects to have insufficient liquidity to make upcoming debt service payments and that a substantial restructuring of the Commonwealth’s existing debt is required to allow the Commonwealth to bring its fiscal accounts into balance, to give it time and the financial flexibility to implement structural reforms and growth initiatives so as to stimulate the Puerto Rican economy and thereby to make the restructured debt sustainable in the long term. We continue to monitor the Puerto Rico government fiscal and economic situation and its potential impact on the Corporation's financial condition, including its potential impact on our TDF-guaranteed exposure. Although TDF has continued to cover its contractually required payments as guarantor during the first quarter of 2016, we are currently assessing, together with our regulators, whether recent developments related to the Puerto Rico government fiscal situation introduce additional uncertainty regarding TDF's ability to honor its guarantee, which could require that some or all of our TDF-guaranteed exposure be placed in nonaccrual status. If we determine to treat some or all of such loans as nonaccrual, then the Corporation’s asset quality metrics and capital ratios could be adversely impacted, we could be required to prospectively apply principal and interest payments received to the outstanding principal of the loans, and the affected loans would need to be individually evaluated for impairment with specific reserves allocated as deemed necessary. In the event these loans are individually evaluated for impairment, based on present appraised values and assumptions as to recovery rates on Puerto Rico government obligations, the required specific reserves are not expected to deviate materially from the general reserves associated with these loans as of December 31, 2015. 

During 2015, the Corporation increased by approximately $35 million the general reserve for commercial loans extended to or guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Government (excluding municipalities), including a $19.2 million charge to the provision recorded in the fourth quarter related to increased qualitative reserve factors applied to these loans in light of recent events surrounding the Puerto Rico Government’s fiscal situation. In addition, during 2015, the specific reserve allocated to the PREPA credit facility was increased by approximately $4.3 million. As of December 31, 2015 the total reserve coverage ratio (general and specific reserves) related to commercial loans extended to or guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Government (excluding municipalities) was 19%. 

In November 2015, PREPA entered into a restructuring support agreement with bondholders and bank creditors that provides a structured framework to implement certain economic agreements, including cuts to repayments of 15% for bondholders. The agreement also outlines other elements, including new governance standards, operational improvements, and a rate structure proposal and a capital plan. Under the economic terms of the agreement, fuel line lenders will have the option to convert existing credit agreements into term loans with a fixed interest rate of 5.75% per annum, to be repaid over 6 years in accordance with an agreed upon schedule or exchange all or part of principal due under the existing credit agreements for new securitization bonds that will pay cash interest at a rate of 4.0% - 4.75% (depending on the credit rating) ("Option A Bonds") or convertible capital appreciation securitization bonds that will accrete interest at a rate of 4.5% - 5.5% for the first five years and pay current interest in cash thereafter ("Option B bonds"). In February 2016, the Puerto Rico Government approved legislation to facilitate the implementation of the restructuring support agreement. 

WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORT 

The Corporation makes available annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, free of charge on or through its internet website at www.1firstbank.com (under "Investor Relations"), as soon as reasonably practicable after the Corporation electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. 

The Corporation also makes available the Corporation’s corporate governance guidelines and principles, the charters of the audit, asset/liability, compensation and benefits, credit, compliance, risk, corporate governance and nominating committees and the codes of conduct and independence principles mentioned below, free of charge on or through its internet website at www.1firstbank.com (under "Investor Relations"): 

- Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers 

- Code of Ethics applicable to all employees 

- Corporate Governance Standards 

- Independence Principles for Directors 

- Luxury Expenditure Policy 

The corporate governance guidelines and principles and the aforementioned charters and codes may also be obtained free of charge by sending a written request to Mr. Lawrence Odell, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, PO Box 9146, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00908. 

The public may read and copy any materials that First BanCorp. files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, the public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (www.sec.gov). 

MARKET AREA AND COMPETITION 

Puerto Rico, where the banking market is highly competitive, is the main geographic service area of the Corporation. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation also had a presence in the state of Florida and in the USVI and BVI. Puerto Rico banks are subject to the same federal laws, regulations and supervision that apply to similar institutions in the United States mainland. 

Competitors include other banks, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, small loan companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, brokerage firms with retail operations, and credit unions in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and the state of Florida. The Corporation’s businesses compete with these other firms with respect to the range of products and services offered and the types of clients, customers and industries served. 

The Corporation’s ability to compete effectively depends on the relative performance of its products, the degree to which the features of its products appeal to customers, and the extent to which the Corporation meets clients’ needs and expectations. The Corporation’s ability to compete also depends on its ability to attract and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation. 

The Corporation encounters intense competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in its consumer and commercial lending activities. The Corporation competes for loans with other financial institutions, some of which are larger and have greater resources available than those of the Corporation. Management believes that the Corporation has been able to compete effectively for deposits and loans by offering a variety of account products and loans with competitive features, by pricing its products at competitive interest rates, by offering convenient branch locations, and by emphasizing the quality of its service. The Corporation’s ability to originate loans depends primarily on the rates and fees charged and the service it provides to its borrowers in making prompt credit decisions. There can be no assurance that in the future the Corporation will be able to continue to increase its deposit base or originate loans in the manner or on the terms on which it has done so in the past. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

References herein to applicable statutes or regulations are brief summaries of portions thereof which do not purport to be complete and which are qualified in their entirety by reference to those statutes and regulations. Although most of the regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Accountability and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") now have been adopted, numerous additional regulations and changes to regulations are anticipated as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and future legislation may increase the regulation and oversight of the Corporation and FirstBank. Any change in applicable laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on the business of commercial banks and bank holding companies, including FirstBank and the Corporation. 

Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes numerous provisions that have affected and will affect large and small financial institutions alike, including banks and bank holding companies and how they will be regulated in the future. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, there has been and will be in the future additional regulatory oversight and supervision of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies; provides that a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and stand ready to commit resources to support each of them; changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to "offset the effect" of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. 

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes as an independent entity, within the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), which has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives and determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay the principal amount and prepayment penalties. 

The CFPB has had primary examination and enforcement authority over FirstBank and other banks with over $10 billion in assets with respect to consumer financial products and services since July 21, 2011. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions. The Federal Reserve Board’s current debit card interchange rule caps a debit card issuer’s base fee at 21 cents per transaction and allows an additional 5 basis-point charge per transaction to help cover fraud losses. The debit card interchange rule has reduced our interchange fee revenue in line with industry-wide expectations since 2011. 

The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies and allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. The legislation also restricts proprietary trading, places restrictions on the owning or sponsoring of hedge and private equity funds, and regulates the derivatives activities of banks and their affiliates. 

Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Collins Amendment"), among other things, eliminates certain trust-preferred securities from Tier I capital. Preferred securities issued under the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") are exempt from this treatment. Bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, were required to fully phase out these instruments from Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016; however, these instruments may remain in Tier 2 capital until the instruments are redeemed or mature. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Coverage Developments . The federal banking agencies adopted new rules for U.S. banks that revise important aspects of the minimum regulatory capital requirements, the components of regulatory capital, and the risk-based capital treatment of bank assets and off-balance sheet exposures. The final rules, which applied to the Corporation and FirstBank as of January 1, 2015, generally are intended to align U.S. regulatory capital requirements with international regulatory capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("Basel Committee"), in particular the most recent international capital accord adopted in 2010 (and revised in 2011) known as "Basel III." The new rules increased the quantity and quality of capital required by, among other things, establishing a new minimum common equity capital requirements and an additional common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer. In addition, the final rules revise and harmonize the bank regulators’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses that have been identified, by applying a variation of the Basel III "standardized approach" for the risk-weighting of bank assets and off-balance sheet exposures to all U.S. banking organizations other than large internationally active banks. 

Consistent with Basel III and the Collins Amendment, the final rules also establish a more conservative standard for including an instrument such as trust-preferred securities as Tier 1 capital for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as of December 31, 2009. Bank holding companies such as the Corporation were required to fully phase out these instruments from Tier I capital by January 1, 2016, although qualifying trust preferred securities may be included as Tier 2 capital until the instruments are redeemed or mature. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation had $220 million in trust preferred securities that are subject to the phase-out from Tier 1 capital under the final regulatory capital rules discussed above. During the first quarter of 2016, the Corporation repurchased $10.0 million in trust preferred securities that had been issued by FBP Statutory Trust II. This transaction is described in more detail in "Significant Events Since the Beginning of 2015" above for additional information. 

These new regulatory capital requirements are discussed in further detail in "Regulation and Supervision — Bank and Bank Holding Company Regulatory Capital Requirements." 

The final capital rules became effective for the Corporation and our subsidiary bank on a multi-year transitional basis starting on January 1, 2015, and in general will be fully effective as of January 1, 2019; the new general minimum regulatory capital requirements and the "standardized approach" for risk weighting of a banking organization’s assets, however, fully apply to us as of January 1, 2015. The final rules have increased our regulatory capital requirements and require us to hold more capital against certain of our assets and off-balance sheet exposures. The Corporation’s estimated pro-forma common equity Tier 1 ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, total capital ratio, and the leverage ratio under the Basel III rules, giving effect as of December 31, 2015 to all the provisions that will be phased-in between January 1, 2015 and January 1, 2019, were 15.4%, 15.8%, 19.4%, and 11.7%, respectively. These ratios would exceed the fully phased-in minimum capital ratios under Basel III. 

International Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Coverage Developments 

International regulatory developments can affect the regulation and supervision of U.S. banking organizations, including the Corporation and FirstBank. Both the Basel Committee and the Financial Stability Board (established in April 2009 by the Group of Twenty ("G-20") Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to take action to strengthen regulation and supervision of the 

financial system with greater international consistency, cooperation and transparency) including the adoption of Basel III and a commitment to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system under Basel III. 

In late 2014, the Basel Committee issued its final requirements for a Net Stable Funding Ratio ("NSFR"). The NSFR compares the amount of an institution’s available stable funding ("ASF", the ratio’s numerator) to its required stable funding ("RSF", the ratio’s denominator) to measure how the institution’s asset base is funded. ASF is defined as the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over the time horizon considered by the NSFR, which extends to one year. While the NSFR is intended to be applied to large, internationally active banks, at the discretion of national supervisors it can be applied to other banking organizations or classes of banking organizations. The U.S. federal banking agencies are expected to issue a proposal for implementation of the NSFR in the U.S. sometime in 2016. 

Prudential Regulation Developments . U.S. banking organizations, including the Corporation and FirstBank, operate under the federal banking agencies’ rules and general supervisory guidance for stress testing practices applicable to banking organizations with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. These regulatory actions require bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of between $10 billion and $50 billion, consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, to comply with annual company-run stress testing requirements, and outlines broad principles for a satisfactory stress testing framework, including principles related to governance, controls and use of results, and describes various stress testing approaches and how stress testing should be used at various levels within an organization. 

Under these requirements, the Corporation is subject to two new stress testing rules that implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, one issued by the Federal Reserve Board that applies to First BanCorp. on a consolidated basis and one issued by the FDIC that applies to the Bank. These Dodd-Frank Act stress tests are designed to require banking organizations to assess the potential impact of different economic scenarios on their earnings, losses, and capital over a set time period, with consideration given to certain relevant factors, including the organization's condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities. The Dodd-Frank Act stress tests require banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion, including the Corporation and the Bank, to conduct annual company-run stress tests using certain scenarios that the Federal Reserve Board publishes by February 15 of each year, report the results to their primary federal regulator and the Federal Reserve Board by July 31 of the same year, and publicly disclose a summary of the results by October 31 of that year. 

The Federal Reserve Board and the other federal banking agencies have published final supervisory guidance describing their supervisory expectations for the Dodd-Frank Act stress tests to be conducted by financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank. The final guidance provides flexibility to accommodate different risk profiles, sizes, business lines, market areas, and complexity approaches for banking institutions in the $10 billion to $50 billion asset range, and provides examples of practices that would be consistent with supervisory expectations. This guidance now is fully applicable to the Corporation and the Bank. The final guidance also confirms that banking organizations with assets between $10 billion and $50 billion are not subject to the more extensive capital planning and stress-testing requirements that apply to bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion, including the Federal Reserve capital plan rule, the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, the Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests, and related data collections. Targeted changes to the Federal Reserve capital planning and stress-testing regulations most recently were made in November 2015, and are effective as of January 1, 2016. In addition, the federal banking agencies recently issued the economic scenarios (baseline, adverse and severely adverse) to be used by banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion for the 2016 company-run stress-tests under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

The Federal Reserve’s rules that govern the supervision and regulation of large U.S. bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, generally apply only to institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, which would not affect the Corporation. The Federal Reserve’s rules, however, require publicly traded U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, such as the Corporation, to establish enterprise-wide risk committees. These requirements complement the stress testing and resolution planning requirements for large bank holding companies that the Federal Reserve previously finalized. The current rules require the Corporation’s risk management framework to be commensurate with the Corporation’s structure, risk profile, complexity, activities and size, and must include policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management policies, and risk control infrastructure for the Corporation’s global operations and processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures. In addition, one independent director must chair the risk committee, with the banking organization determining the appropriate proportion of independent directors on the committee, based on its size, scope, and complexity, provided that it meets the minimum requirement of one independent director. Also, at least one director with risk-management experience must be appointed to the risk committee. The Corporation is in compliance with these new requirements. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. CFPB regulations issued over the past few years implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act ("TILA"), and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"). In general, among other changes, these regulations collectively: (i) require lenders to make a reasonable good faith determination of a prospective residential mortgage borrower’s ability to repay based on specific underwriting criteria and set standards for mortgage lenders to determine whether a consumer has the ability to repay the mortgage, (ii) require stricter underwriting of "qualified mortgages," discussed below, that presumptively satisfy the ability to pay requirement (thereby providing 

the lender a safe harbor from non-compliance claims), (iii) specify new limitations on loan originator compensation and establish criteria for the qualifications of, and registration or licensing of loan originators, (iv) further restrict certain high-cost mortgage loans by expanding the coverage of the Home Ownership and Equity Protections Act of 1994, (v) expand mandated loan escrow accounts for certain loans, (vi) revise existing appraisal requirements under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and require provision of a free copy of all appraisals to applicants for first lien loans, (vii) establish new appraisal standards for most "higher-risk mortgages" under TILA, (viii) combine in a single, new form required loan disclosures under TILA and RESPA, (ix) define a "qualified mortgage for purposes of the Dodd frank Act, and (x) affords safe harbor legal protections for lenders making qualified loans that are not "higher priced." 

The CFPB also has issued a final regulation setting forth new mortgage servicing rules that now apply to the Bank. 

The regulations affect notices given to consumers as to delinquency, foreclosure alternatives, modification applications, interest rate adjustments and options for avoiding "force-placed" insurance. Servicers are prohibited from processing foreclosures when a loan modification is pending, and must wait until a loan is more than 120 days delinquent before initiating a foreclosure action. 

The servicer must provide direct and ongoing access to its personnel, and provide prompt review of any loss mitigation application. Servicers must maintain accurate and accessible mortgage records for the life of a loan and until one year after the loan is paid off or transferred. 

On December 15, 2014, the CFPB proposed further changes to these mortgage servicing rules. The proposed changes generally would clarify and amend provisions regarding force-placed insurance notices, policies and procedures, early intervention, loss mitigation requirements and periodic statement requirements under the CFPB mortgage servicing rules. The proposed amendments also would address proper compliance regarding certain servicing requirements when a consumer is a potential or confirmed successor in interest, is in bankruptcy, or sends a cease communication request under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. These new mortgage servicing standards are expected to add to our costs of conducting a mortgage servicing business. 

Effective October 3, 2015, the CFPB rule that combines mortgage disclosures previously established by the TILA and the RESPA came to effect. Sections 1098 and 1100A of Dodd-Frank Act direct the Bureau to publish rules and forms that combine certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing on a mortgage loan under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Consistent with this requirement, the Bureau amended Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) to establish new disclosure requirements and forms in Regulation Z for most closed-end consumer credit transactions secured by real property. In addition to combining the existing disclosure requirements and implementing new requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, the final rule provides extensive guidance regarding compliance with those requirements. 

The Volcker Rule. This section of the Dodd-Frank Act, subject to important exceptions, generally prohibits a banking entity such as the Corporation or FirstBank from acquiring or retaining any ownership in, or acting as sponsor to, a hedge fund or private equity fund ("covered fund"). The Volcker Rule also prohibits these entities from engaging, for their own account, in short-form proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on these instruments. 

Final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule have been adopted by the financial regulatory agencies and are now generally effective. 

The Corporation and the Bank are not engaged in proprietary trading as defined in the Volcker Rule. In addition, a review of the Corporation’s investments was undertaken to determine if any meet the Volcker Rule’s definition of covered funds. Based on that review, the Corporation’s investments are not considered covered funds under the Volcker Rule. 

Future Legislation and Regulation . While the federal agencies have adopted regulations that implement many requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, important regulatory actions (e.g., the adoption of rules regarding the compensation of financial institutions executives) that could have an impact on the Corporation and the Bank remain to be taken. Additional consumer protection laws may be enacted, and the FDIC, Federal Reserve and CFPB have adopted and will adopt in the future new regulations that have addressed or may address, among other things, banks’ credit card, overdraft, collection, privacy and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. 

Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted and implemented, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in ways that could be substantial and unpredictable. We cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. 

Bank Holding Company Activities and Other Limitations 

The Corporation is registered and subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Bank Holding Company Act" or "BHC Act"). Under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, a bank holding company must obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before it acquires direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of another bank, or merges or consolidates with another bank holding company. The Federal Reserve Board also has authority under certain circumstances to issue cease and desist orders against bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries. In addition, the Corporation is subject to ongoing regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, and is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board periodic and annual reports and other information concerning its own business operations and those of its subsidiaries. 

A bank holding company is prohibited under the Bank Holding Company Act, with limited exceptions, from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any business unrelated to the businesses of banking or managing or controlling banks. One of the exceptions to these prohibitions permits ownership by a bank holding company of the shares of any corporation if the Federal Reserve Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, by regulation or order has determined that the activities of the corporation in question are so closely related to the businesses of banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

The Bank Holding Company Act also permits a bank holding company to elect to become a financial holding company and engage in a broad range of activities that are financial in nature. The Corporation filed an election with the Federal Reserve Board and became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. Financial holding companies may engage, directly or indirectly, in any activity that is determined to be (i) financial in nature, (ii) incidental to such financial activity, or (iii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. The Bank Holding Company Act specifically provides that the following activities have been determined to be "financial in nature": (a) lending, trust and other banking activities; (b) insurance activities; (c) financial or economic advice or services; (d) pooled investments; (e) securities underwriting and dealing; (f) domestic activities permitted for existing bank holding company; (g) foreign activities permitted for existing bank holding company; and (h) merchant banking activities. 

A financial holding company that ceases to meet certain standards is subject to a variety of restrictions, depending on the circumstances, including precluding the undertaking of new activities or the acquisition of shares or control of other companies. Until compliance is restored, the Federal Reserve Board has broad discretion to impose appropriate limitations on the financial holding company’s activities. If compliance is not restored within 180 days, the Federal Reserve Board may ultimately require the financial holding company to divest its depository institutions or, in the alternative, to discontinue or divest any activities that are permitted only to non-financial holding company bank holding companies. The Corporation and FirstBank must be well-capitalized and well-managed for regulatory purposes, and FirstBank must earn "satisfactory" or better ratings on its periodic Community Reinvestment Act (the "CRA") examinations to preserve the financial holding company status. By reason of, among other things, the Written Agreement, the Bank is not treated as "well-capitalized" and therefore is restricted in its ability to undertake new financial activities. 

The potential restrictions are different if the lapse pertains to the CRA. In that case, until all the subsidiary institutions are restored to at least a "satisfactory" CRA rating status, the financial holding company may not engage, directly or through a subsidiary, in any of the additional financial activities permissible under the Bank Holding Company Act or make additional acquisitions of companies engaged in the additional activities. However, completed acquisitions and additional activities and affiliations previously begun are left undisturbed, as the Bank Holding Company Act does not require divestiture for this type of situation. 

Under provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company such as the Corporation is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries and to commit support to them. This support may be required at times when, absent such policy, the bank holding company might not otherwise provide such support. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and be entitled to a priority of payment. 

In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks must be subordinated in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. As of December 31, 2015, and the date hereof, FirstBank was and is the only depository institution subsidiary of the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the Federal Reserve Board to adopt regulations adopting the statutory source-of-strength requirements, but implementing regulations have not yet been proposed. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") implemented a range of corporate governance and other measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under the federal securities laws. In addition, SOX has established membership requirements and responsibilities for the audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between the Corporation and our external auditors, imposed additional responsibilities for the external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for corporate insiders, required management to evaluate its 

disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting, and required the auditors to issue a report on the internal control over financial reporting. 

The Corporation includes in its annual report on Form 10-K its management’s assessment regarding the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report includes a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Corporation; management’s assessment as to the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting based on management’s evaluation, as of year-end; and the framework used by management as criteria for evaluating the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting. 

As of December 31, 2015, First BanCorp’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective. The Corporation’s independent registered public accounting firm reached the same conclusion. 

Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 

Turmoil in the U.S. financial sector during 2008 resulted in the passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") and the adoption of several programs by the U.S. Treasury, as well as several actions by the Federal Reserve Board. The EESA authorized the U.S. Treasury to access up to $700 billion to protect the U.S. economy and restore confidence and stability to the financial markets. One such program under the TARP was action by the U.S. Treasury to make significant investments in U.S. financial institutions through the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP"). The U.S. Treasury’s stated purpose in implementing the CPP was to improve the capitalization of healthy institutions, which would improve the flow of credit to businesses and consumers, and boost the confidence of depositors, investors, and counterparties alike. All federal banking and thrift regulatory agencies encouraged eligible institutions to participate in the CPP. 

The Corporation applied for, and the U.S. Treasury approved, a capital purchase in the amount of $400,000,000. The Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2009, including the Securities Purchase Agreement Standard Terms (collectively the "Letter Agreement") with the U.S. Treasury, pursuant to which the Corporation issued and sold to the Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $400,000,000 in cash (i) 400,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F (the "Series F Preferred Stock"), and (ii) a warrant to purchase 389,483 shares of the Corporation’s common stock at an exercise price of $154.05 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments (the "warrant"). The TARP transaction closed on January 16, 2009. On July 20, 2010, we exchanged the Series F Preferred Stock, plus accrued dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock, for 424,174 shares of a new series of preferred stock, fixed rate Cumulative Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G (the "Series G Preferred Stock"), and amended the warrant. On October 7, 2011, we exercised our right to convert the Series G Preferred Stock into 32,941,797 shares of common stock. As a result of the issuance of $525 million of common stock in October 2011, the warrant was adjusted to provide for the issuance of approximately 1,285,899 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.29 per share. On August 16, 2013, a secondary offering of the Corporation’s common stock was completed by certain of the Corporation’s existing stockholders, which included the sale by the U.S. Treasury of 13 million shares in such secondary offering. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the U.S. Treasury sold an additional 4.4 million shares in accordance with its first pre-defined written trading plan. On March 9, 2015, the U.S. Treasury announced the sale of an additional 5 million shares of First BanCorp.’s common stock through its second pre-defined written trading plan. As of December 31, 2015, the U.S. Treasury owned approximately 4.8% of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock, excluding the shares underlying the warrant. 

Under the terms of the amended Letter Agreement with the U.S. Treasury dated as of July 7, 2010 (i) the Corporation amended its compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans, arrangements and agreements (including severance and employment agreements) to the extent necessary to be in compliance with the executive compensation and corporate governance requirements of Section 111(b) of the EESA and applicable guidance or regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury on or prior to January 16, 2009 and (ii) each Senior Executive Officer, as defined in the amended Letter Agreement, executed a written waiver releasing the U.S. Treasury and the Corporation from any claims that such officers may otherwise have as a result of the Corporation’s amendment of such arrangements and agreements to be in compliance with Section 111(b). Until such time as the U.S. Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Corporation acquired pursuant to the amended Letter Agreement, the Corporation must remain in compliance with these requirements. 

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 

On February 17, 2009, the Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"). The ARRA includes federal tax cuts, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social welfare provisions, and domestic spending on education, health care, and infrastructure, including the energy sector. 

The ARRA includes provisions relating to compensation paid by institutions that receive government assistance under TARP, including institutions that had already received such assistance, effectively amending the existing compensation and corporate governance requirements of Section 111(b) of the EESA. The provisions include restrictions on the amounts and forms of 

compensation payable, provisions for possible reimbursement of previously paid compensation and a requirement that compensation be submitted to a non-binding "say on pay" shareholder vote. 

The U.S. Treasury issued regulations implementing the compensation requirements under ARRA, which amended the requirements of EESA. The regulations made effective the compensation provisions of ARRA and include rules requiring: (i) review of prior compensation by a Special Master; (ii) restrictions on paying or accruing bonuses, retention awards or incentive compensation for certain employees; (iii) regular review of all employee compensation arrangements by the company’s senior risk officer and compensation committee to ensure that the arrangements do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk-taking or manipulation of the reporting of earnings; (iv) recoupment of bonus payments based on materially inaccurate information; (v) the prohibition of severance or change in control payments for certain employees; (vi) the adoption of policies and procedures to avoid excessive luxury expenses; and (vii) the mandatory "say on pay" vote by shareholders. In addition, the regulations also introduced several additional requirements and restrictions, including: (i) Special Master review of ongoing compensation in certain situations; (ii) prohibition on tax gross-ups for certain employees; (iii) disclosure of perquisites; and (iv) disclosure regarding compensation consultants. 

USA PATRIOT Act and Other Anti-Money Laundering Requirements. 

As a regulated depository institution, FirstBank is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, which imposes a variety of reporting and other requirements, including the requirement to file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports that are designed to assist in the detection and prevention of money laundering and other criminal activities. In addition, under Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, also known as the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act of 2001, all financial institutions are required to, among other things, identify their customers, adopt formal and comprehensive anti-money laundering programs, scrutinize or prohibit altogether certain transactions of special concern, and be prepared to respond to inquiries from U.S. law enforcement agencies concerning their customers and their transactions. Presently, only certain types of financial institutions (including banks, savings associations and money services businesses) are subject to final rules implementing the anti-money laundering program requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act. 

Regulations implementing the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act are published and primarily enforced by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the U.S. Treasury. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the requirement of the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution, including the possibility of regulatory enforcement or other legal action, including significant civil money penalties, against the Corporation or the Bank. The Corporation also is required to comply with federal economic and trade sanctions requirements enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), a bureau of the U.S. Treasury. The Corporation has adopted appropriate policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, USA PATRIOT Act and economic/trade sanctions requirements, and to implement banking agency, U.S. Treasury and OFAC regulations. 

Community Reinvestment 

The CRA encourages banks to help meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the banks offer their services, including low- and moderate-income individuals, consistent with safe and sound operation of the bank. 

The CRA requires the federal supervisory agencies, as part of the general examination of supervised banks, to assess the bank’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community, assign a performance rating, and take such record and rating into account in their evaluation of certain applications by such bank. The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. FirstBank received a "satisfactory" CRA rating in its most recent examination by the FDIC. 

Failure to adequately serve the communities could result in the denial by the regulators to merge, consolidate or acquire new assets, as well as expand or relocate branches. 

State Chartered Non-Member Bank and Banking Laws and Regulations in General 

FirstBank is subject to regulation and examination by the OCIF, the CFPB and the FDIC, and is subject to comprehensive federal and state regulations dealing with a wide variety of subjects. The federal and state laws and regulations which are applicable to banks regulate, among other things, the scope of their businesses, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing and availability of deposited funds, and the nature and amount of and collateral for certain loans. In addition to the impact of regulations, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve Board as it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our future business, earnings and growth cannot be predicted. 

There are periodic examinations by the OCIF, the CFPB and the FDIC of FirstBank to test the Bank’s conformance to safe and sound banking practices and compliance with various statutory and regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a banking institution can engage. The regulation and supervision by the FDIC are intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC’s insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and for engaging in unsafe or unsound practices. In addition, certain bank actions are required by statute and implementing regulations. Other actions or failure to act may provide the basis for enforcement action, including the filing of misleading or untimely reports with regulatory authorities. 

Written Agreement 

FirstBank was notified by the FDIC that the Consent Order under which the Bank had been operating since June 2, 2010 was terminated effective April 29, 2015. Although the Consent Order has been terminated, First BanCorp. is still subject to the Written Agreement that the Corporation entered into with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on June 3, 2010. 

The Written Agreement provides, among other things, that the holding company must serve as a source of strength to FirstBank, and that, except with the consent generally of the New York FED and Federal Reserve Board, (1) the holding company may not pay dividends to stockholders or receive dividends from FirstBank, (2) the holding company and its nonbank subsidiaries may not make payments on trust-preferred securities or subordinated debt, and (3) the holding company cannot incur, increase, or guarantee debt or repurchase any capital securities. The Written Agreement also requires that the holding company submit a capital plan that reflects sufficient capital at First BanCorp. on a consolidated basis, which must be acceptable to the New York FED, and follow certain guidelines with respect to the appointment or change in responsibilities of senior officers. The foregoing summary is not complete and is qualified in all respects by reference to the actual language of the Written Agreement. 

The Corporation submitted its Capital Plan under the Written Agreement setting forth its plans for how to improve capital positions to comply with the Written Agreement over time. In addition to the Capital Plan, the Corporation submitted to its regulators a liquidity and brokered CD plan, including a contingency funding plan, a non-performing asset reduction plan, a budget and profit plan, a strategic plan, and a plan for the reduction of classified and special mention assets. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation had completed all of the items included in the Capital Plan and is continuing to work on reducing non-performing loans. The Written Agreement also requires the submission to the regulators of quarterly progress reports. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Federal Reserve’s "Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies" (the "Supervisory Letter") discusses the ability of bank holding companies to declare dividends and to repurchase equity securities. The Supervisory Letter is generally consistent with prior Federal Reserve supervisory policies and guidance, although it places greater emphasis on discussions with the regulators prior to dividend declarations and redemption or repurchase decisions even when not explicitly required by the regulations. The Federal Reserve provides that the principles discussed in the letter are applicable to all bank holding companies, but are especially relevant for bank holding companies that are either experiencing financial difficulties and/or receiving public funds under the U.S. Treasury’s TARP CPP. To that end, the Supervisory Letter specifically addresses the Federal Reserve’s supervisory considerations for TARP participants. 

The Federal Reserve Board has also issued a policy statement that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should generally not maintain a given rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Corporation is subject to certain restrictions generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations with respect to the declaration and payment of dividends (i.e., that dividends may be paid out only from the Corporation’s net assets in excess of capital or, in the absence of such excess, from the Corporation’s net earnings for such fiscal year and/or the preceding fiscal year) 

In prior years, the principal source of funds for the Corporation’s parent holding company was dividends declared and paid by its subsidiary, FirstBank. Pursuant to the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve, the Corporation cannot directly or indirectly take dividends or any other form of payment representing a reduction in capital from the Bank without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. The ability of FirstBank to declare and pay dividends on its capital stock is regulated by the Puerto Rico Banking Law, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA"), and FDIC regulations. In general terms, the Puerto Rico Banking Law provides that when the expenditures of a bank are greater than receipts, the excess of expenditures over receipts shall be charged against undistributed profits of the bank and the balance, if any, shall be charged against the required reserve fund of the bank. If the reserve fund is not sufficient to cover such balance in whole or in part, the outstanding amount must be charged against the bank’s capital 

account. The Puerto Rico Banking Law provides that, until said capital has been restored to its original amount and the reserve fund to 20% of the original capital, the bank may not declare any dividends. In general terms, the FDIA and the FDIC regulations restrict the payment of dividends when a bank is undercapitalized, when a bank has failed to pay insurance assessments, or when there are safety and soundness concerns regarding such bank. 

We suspended dividend payments on our common stock and preferred dividends commencing with the preferred dividend payments for the month of August 2009. Furthermore, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain outstanding and until we obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval, we cannot declare, set apart or pay any dividends on shares of our common stock unless any accrued and unpaid dividends on our preferred stock for the twelve monthly dividend periods ending on the immediately preceding dividend payment date have been paid or are paid contemporaneously and the full monthly dividend on our preferred stock for the then current month has been or is contemporaneously declared and paid or declared and set apart for payment. 

Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Certain transactions between financial institutions such as FirstBank and its affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and by Federal Reserve Regulation W. An affiliate of a financial institution in general is any corporation or entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the financial institution. 

In a holding company context, the parent bank holding company and any companies that are controlled by such parent bank holding company are affiliates of the financial institution. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (i) limit the extent to which the financial institution or its subsidiaries may engage in "covered transactions" (defined below) with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such financial institution’s capital stock and surplus, and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such financial institution’s capital stock and surplus and (ii) require that all "covered transactions" be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the financial institution or affiliate, as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term "covered transaction" includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and other similar transactions. In addition, loans or other extensions of credit by the financial institution to the affiliate are required to be collateralized in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. The Dodd-Frank Act added derivatives and securities lending and borrowing transactions to the list of "covered transactions" subject to Section 23A restrictions. 

In addition, Sections 22(h) and (g) of the Federal Reserve Act, implemented through Regulation O, place restrictions on loans to executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders. Under Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, loans to a director, an executive officer, a greater than 10% stockholder of a financial institution, and certain related interests of these persons, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated interests, the financial institution’s loans to one borrower limit, generally equal to 15% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act also requires that loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons and also requires prior board approval for certain loans. In addition, the aggregate amount of extensions of credit by a financial institution to insiders cannot exceed the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Furthermore, Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act places additional restrictions on loans to executive officers. 

Bank and Bank Holding Company Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Federal Reserve Board has adopted risk-based and leverage capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding company and in analyzing applications to it under the Bank Holding Company Act. The Federal Reserve Board’s historical risk-based capital guidelines were based upon the 1988 capital accord ("Basel I") of the Basel Committee. These historical requirements, however, which included a legacy simplified risk-weighting system for the calculations of risk-based assets, as well as lower leverage capital requirements, were superseded by new risk-based and leverage capital requirements that went into effect, on a multi-year transitional basis, on January 1, 2015. The FDIC has adopted substantively identical requirements that apply to insured banks under its regulation and supervision. These requirements are part of a revised regulatory capital framework for U.S. banking organizations (the "Basel III rules") adopted by the banking agencies that is based on international regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision over the past several years. 

The Basel III rules introduce new minimum capital ratios and capital conservation buffer requirements, change the composition of regulatory capital, require a number of new adjustments to and deductions from regulatory capital, and introduce a new "Standardized Approach" for the calculation of risk-weighted assets that replaced the risk-weighting requirements under prior U.S. regulatory capital rules. The new minimum regulatory capital requirements and the Standardized Approach for the calculation of risk-weighted assets became effective for the Corporation on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirements, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions under the Basel III rules are being phased-in over several years ending on December 31, 2018. 

The Basel III rules introduce a new and separate ratio of Common Equity Tier 1 capital ("CET1") to risk-weighted assets. CET1, a narrower subcomponent of total Tier 1 capital, generally consists of common stock and related surplus, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), and qualifying minority interests. Certain banking organizations, however, including the Corporation and FirstBank, were allowed to make a one-time permanent election in early 2015 to continue to exclude AOCI items. The Corporation and FirstBank elected to permanently exclude capital in AOCI in order to avoid significant variations in the level of 

capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of the securities portfolio. In addition, the Basel III rules require the Corporation to maintain an additional CET1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5%. The capital conservation buffer must be maintained to avoid limitations on both (i) capital distributions (e.g. repurchases of capital instruments or dividend or interest payments on capital instruments) and (ii) discretionary bonus payments to executive officers and heads of major business lines. Under the fully phased-in rules, the Corporation will be required to maintain: (i) a minimum CET1 to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 4.5%, plus the 2.5% "capital conservation buffer," resulting in a required minimum CET1 ratio of at least 7%, (ii) a minimum ratio of total Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer, resulting in a required minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, (iii) a minimum ratio of total Tier 1 plus Tier 2 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer, resulting in a required minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%, and (iv) a required minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average on-balance sheet (non-risk adjusted) assets. The phase-in of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 with a first year requirement of 0.625% of additional CET1, which will be progressively increased over a four-year period, increasing by that same percentage amount on each subsequent January 1 until it reaches the fully phased-in 2.5% CET1 requirement on January 1, 2019. 

In addition, the Basel III rules require a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1, including deductions from CET1 for certain intangible assets, and deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income; the four-year phase-in period for these adjustments generally began on January 1, 2015. Mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences, among others, are required to be deducted to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. 

In addition, the Basel III rules require that certain non-qualifying capital instruments, including cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities ("TRuPs"), be excluded from Tier 1 capital. In general, banking organizations such as the Corporation began to phase out TRuPs from Tier 1 capital on January 1, 2015. The Corporation’s TRuPs must be fully phased out from Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016. However, the Corporation’s TRuPs may continue to be included in Tier 2 capital until the instruments are redeemed or mature. 

The Corporation and FirstBank compute risk weighted assets using the Standardized Approach required by the Basel III rules. The Standardized Approach for risk-weightings has expanded the risk-weighting categories from the four major risk-weighting categories under the previous regulatory capital rules (0%, 20%, 50%, and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets. In a number of cases, the Standardized Approach results in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to the risk-weightings of assets include, among other things: (i) applying a 150% risk weight instead of a 100% risk weight for high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans, (ii) assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures that are 90 days past due (other than qualifying residential mortgage exposures, which remain at an assigned risk-weighting of 100%), (iii) establishing a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable, in contrast to the 0% risk-weighting under the prior rules and (iv) requiring capital to be maintained against on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet exposures that result from certain cleared transactions, guarantees and credit derivatives, and collateralized transactions (such as repurchase agreement transactions). 

Prompt Corrective Action. The Prompt Corrective Action ("PCA") provisions of the FDIA require the federal bank regulatory agencies to take prompt corrective action against any undercapitalized insured depository institution. The FDIA establishes five capital categories: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. Well-capitalized insured depository institutions ("institutions") significantly exceed the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. Adequately capitalized institutions include institutions that meet but do not significantly exceed the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. Undercapitalized institutions consist of those that fail to meet the required minimum level for one or more relevant capital measures. Significantly undercapitalized institutions are those with capital levels significantly below the minimum requirements for any relevant capital measure. Critically undercapitalized institutions have minimal capital and are at serious risk for government seizure. 

Under certain circumstances, a well-capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution may be treated as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. An institution is generally prohibited from making capital distributions (including paying dividends), or paying management fees to a holding company if the institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Institutions that are adequately capitalized but not well-capitalized cannot accept, renew or roll over brokered CDs except with a waiver from the FDIC and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates that can be paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or roll over brokered CDs. 

The federal bank regulatory agencies are permitted or, in certain cases, required to take certain actions with respect to institutions falling within one of the three undercapitalized categories. Depending on the level of an institution’s capital, the agency’s corrective powers include, among other things: 

- prohibiting the payment of principal and interest on subordinated debt; 

- prohibiting the holding company from making distributions without prior regulatory approval; 

- placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities; 

- placing additional restrictions on transactions with affiliates; 

- restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; 

- prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; and 

- in the most severe cases, appointing a conservator or receiver for the institution. 

An institution that is undercapitalized is required to submit a capital restoration plan, and such a plan will not be accepted unless, among other things, the institution’s holding company guarantees the plan up to a certain specified amount. Any such guarantee from an institution’s holding company is entitled to a priority of payment in bankruptcy. 

The banking agencies’ Basel III rules, discussed above, revise the PCA requirements by (i) introducing a separate CET1 ratio requirement for each PCA capital category (other than critically undercapitalized) with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each PCA capital category with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the previous 6%); and (iii) eliminating the previous provision that allows a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 to have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized and maintaining the minimum leverage ratio for well-capitalized status at 5%. The Basel III rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement (10% for well-capitalized status) for any PCA capital category. The new PCA requirements became effective on January 1, 2015. 

A bank’s capital category, as determined by applying the prompt corrective action provisions of the law, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of a bank, such as the Bank, and should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding the financial condition and results of operations of the bank. 

Set forth below are the Corporation's and FirstBank's capital ratios as of December 31, 2015 based on Federal Reserve and FDIC guidelines, respectively, and the capital ratios required to be attained and maintained under the FDIC Order: 

Banking Subsidiary 

First BanCorp. 

FirstBank 

Well-Capitalized Minimum 

As of December 31, 2015 

Total capital (Total capital to 

risk-weighted assets) 

20.01% 

19.73% 

10.00% 

Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity 

Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets) 

16.92% 

16.35% 

6.50% 

Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital 

to risk-weighted assets) 

16.92% 

18.45% 

8.00% 

Leverage ratio (1) 

12.22% 

13.33% 

5.00% 

_______________ 

(1) Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

Deposit Insurance 

The increase in deposit insurance coverage to up to $250,000 per customer, the FDIC’s expanded authority to increase insurance premiums, as well as the increase in the number of bank failures after the 2008 financial crisis resulted in an increase in deposit insurance assessments for all banks, including FirstBank. The Dodd-Frank Act changes the requirements for the Deposit Insurance Fund by requiring that the designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund for any year may not be less than 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits or the comparable percentage of the new deposit assessment base. In addition, the FDIC must take steps as necessary for the reserve ratio to reach 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. If the reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent, the FDIC must dividend to Deposit Insurance Fund members the amount above the amount necessary to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at 1.5 percent, but the FDIC Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, suspend or limit the declaration of payment of dividends. The FDIC has adopted a Deposit Reserve Fund restoration plan that projects that the designated reserve ratio will reach 1.35 percent by the 2020 deadline. The FDIC has also adopted a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met for several years. 

The FDIC assessment rules currently define the assessment base for deposit insurance as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, specify assessment rates, implement the Dodd-Frank Act’s Deposit Insurance Fund dividend provisions, and revises the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets), such as FirstBank. In October 2015, the FDIC proposed a rule to increase the Deposit Insurance Fund to the statutorily required minimum level of 1.35 percent. Among other things, the proposed rule would impose on banks with at least $10 billion in assets (which would include the Bank) a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of their assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The FDIC has stated that it expects the reserve ratio probably would reach 1.35 percent after approximately two years of payments of the proposed surcharges. 

FDIC Insolvency Authority 

Under Puerto Rico banking laws (discussed below), the OCIF may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver of a failed or failing FDIC-insured Puerto Rican bank such as the Bank, and the FDIA authorizes the FDIC to accept such an appointment. In addition, the FDIC has broad authority under the FDIA to appoint itself as conservator or receiver of a failed or failing state bank, including a Puerto Rican bank. If the FDIC is appointed conservator or receiver of a bank upon the bank’s insolvency or the occurrence of other events, the FDIC may sell or transfer some, part or all of a bank’s assets and liabilities to another bank, or liquidate the bank and pay out insured depositors, as well as uninsured depositors and other creditors to the extent of the closed bank’s available assets. As part of its insolvency authority, the FDIC has the authority, among other things, to take possession of and administer the receivership estate, pay out estate claims, and repudiate or disaffirm certain types of contracts to which the bank was a party if the FDIC believes such contract is burdensome and its disaffirmance will aid in the administration of the receivership. In resolving the estate of a failed bank, the FDIC as receiver will first satisfy its own administrative expenses, and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities also have priority over those of other general unsecured creditors. 

Activities and Investments 

The activities as "principal" and equity investments of FDIC-insured, state-chartered banks such as FirstBank are generally limited to those that are permissible for national banks. Under regulations dealing with equity investments, an insured state-chartered bank generally may not directly or indirectly acquire or retain any equity investments of a type, or in an amount, that is not permissible for a national bank. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

FirstBank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") system. The FHLB system consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks governed and regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The Federal Home Loan Banks serve as reserve or credit facilities for member institutions within their assigned regions. They are funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system, and they make loans (advances) to members in accordance with policies and procedures established by the FHLB system and the board of directors of each regional FHLB. 

FirstBank is a member of the FHLB of New York and, as such, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB in an amount calculated in accordance with the requirements set forth in applicable laws and regulations. FirstBank is in compliance with the stock ownership requirements of the FHLB of New York. All loans, advances and other extensions of credit made by the FHLB to FirstBank are secured by a portion of FirstBank’s mortgage loan portfolio, certain other investments and the capital stock of the FHLB held by FirstBank. 

Ownership and Control 

Because of FirstBank’s status as an FDIC-insured bank, as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act, the Corporation, as the owner of FirstBank’s common stock, is subject to certain restrictions and disclosure obligations under various federal laws, including 

the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act (the "CBCA"). Regulations pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act generally require prior Federal Reserve Board approval for an acquisition of control of an insured institution (as defined in the Act) or holding company thereof by any person (or persons acting in concert). Control is deemed to exist if, among other things, a person (or group of persons acting in concert) acquires 25% or more of any class of voting stock of an insured institution or holding company thereof. Under the CBCA, control is presumed to exist subject to rebuttal if a person (or group of persons acting in concert) acquires 10% or more of any class of voting stock and either (i) the corporation has registered securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or (ii) no person (or group of persons acting in concert) will own, control or hold the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. The concept of acting in concert is very broad and also is subject to certain rebuttable presumptions, including among others, that relatives, business partners, management officials, affiliates and others are presumed to be acting in concert with each other and their businesses. The regulations of the FDIC implementing the CBCA are generally similar to those described above. 

The Puerto Rico Banking Law requires the approval of the OCIF for changes in control of a Puerto Rico bank. See "Puerto Rico Banking Law." 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The FDIA requires the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards of safety and soundness, by regulations or guidelines, relating generally to operations and management, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation, and compensation. The implementing regulations and guidelines of the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the regulations and guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The regulations and guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. Failure to comply with these standards can result in administrative enforcement or other adverse actions against the bank. 

Brokered Deposits 

FDIC regulations adopted under the FDIA govern the receipt of brokered deposits by banks. Well-capitalized institutions are not subject to limitations on brokered deposits, while adequately-capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to certain restrictions on the interest paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. 

Puerto Rico Banking Law 

As a commercial bank organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, FirstBank is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Commissioner of Financial Institutions ("Commissioner") pursuant to the Puerto Rico Banking Law of 1933, as amended (the "Banking Law"). 

The Banking Law contains various provisions relating to FirstBank and its affairs, including its incorporation and organization, the rights and responsibilities of its directors, officers and stockholders and its corporate powers, lending limitations, capital requirements, and investment requirements. In addition, the Commissioner is given extensive rule-making power and administrative discretion under the Banking Law. 

The Banking Law authorizes Puerto Rico commercial banks to conduct certain financial and related activities directly or through subsidiaries, including the leasing of personal property and the operation of a small loan business. 

The Banking Law requires every bank to maintain a legal reserve, which shall not be less than twenty percent (20%) of its demand liabilities, except government deposits (federal, state and municipal) that are secured by actual collateral. The reserve is required to be composed of any of the following securities or a combination thereof: (1) legal tender of the United States; (2) checks on banks or trust companies located in any part of Puerto Rico that are to be presented for collection during the day following the day on which they are received; (3) money deposited in other banks provided said deposits are authorized by the Commissioner and subject to immediate collection; (4) federal funds sold to any Federal Reserve Bank and securities purchased under agreements to resell executed by the bank with such funds that are subject to be repaid to the bank on or before the close of the next business day; and (5) any other asset that the Commissioner identifies from time to time. 

Section 17 of the Banking Law permits Puerto Rico commercial banks to make loans to any one person, firm, partnership or corporation in an aggregate amount of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the sum of: (i) the bank’s paid-in capital; (ii) the bank’s reserve fund; (iii) 50% of the bank’s retained earnings, subject to certain limitations; and (iv) any other components that the Commissioner may determine from time to time. If such loans are secured by collateral worth at least twenty five percent (25%) more than the amount of the loan, the aggregate maximum amount may reach one third (33.33%) of the sum of the bank’s paid-in capital, reserve fund, 50% of retained earnings, subject to certain limitations, and such other components that the Commissioner may determine from 

time to time. There are no restrictions under the Banking Law on the amount of loans that may be wholly secured by bonds, securities and other evidences of indebtedness of the Government of the United States, or of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or by bonds, not in default, of municipalities or instrumentalities of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 

The Banking Law prohibits Puerto Rico commercial banks from making loans secured by their own stock, and from purchasing their own stock, unless such purchase is made pursuant to a stock repurchase program approved by the Commissioner or is necessary to prevent losses because of a debt previously contracted in good faith. The stock purchased by the Puerto Rico commercial bank must be sold by the bank in a public or private sale within one year from the date of purchase. 

The Banking Law provides that no officer, director, agent or employee of a Puerto Rico commercial bank may serve as an officer, director, agent or employee of another Puerto Rico commercial bank, financial corporation, savings and loan association, trust corporation, corporation engaged in granting mortgage loans or any other institution engaged in the money lending business in Puerto Rico. This prohibition is not applicable to any such position with an affiliate of a Puerto Rico commercial bank. 

The Banking Law requires that Puerto Rico commercial banks prepare each year a balance summary of their operations, and submit such balance summary for approval at a regular meeting of stockholders, together with an explanatory report thereon. The Banking Law also requires that at least ten percent (10%) of the yearly net income of a Puerto Rico commercial bank be credited annually to a reserve fund. This credit is required to be done every year until such reserve fund shall be equal to the total paid-in-capital of the bank. 

The Banking Law also provides that when the expenditures of a Puerto Rico commercial bank are greater than receipts, the excess of the expenditures over receipts shall be charged against the undistributed profits of the bank, and the balance, if any, shall be charged against the reserve fund, as a reduction thereof. If there is no reserve fund sufficient to cover such balance in whole or in part, the outstanding amount shall be charged against the capital account and no dividend shall be declared until said capital has been restored to its original amount and the amount in the reserve fund equals twenty percent (20%) of the original capital. 

The Banking Law requires the prior approval of the Commissioner with respect to a transfer of capital stock of a bank that results in a change of control of the bank. Under the Banking Law, a change of control is presumed to occur if a person or a group of persons acting in concert, directly or indirectly, acquires more than 5% of the outstanding voting capital stock of the bank. The Commissioner has interpreted the restrictions of the Banking Law as applying to acquisitions of voting securities of entities controlling a bank, such as a bank holding company. Under the Banking Law, the determination of the Commissioner whether to approve a change of control filing is final and non-appealable. 

The Finance Board, which is composed of the Commissioner, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Consumer Affairs, the President of the Economic Development Bank, the President of the Government Development Bank, and the President of the Planning Board, has the authority to regulate the maximum interest rates and finance charges that may be charged on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses in Puerto Rico. The current regulations of the Finance Board provide that the applicable interest rate on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses, including real estate development loans but excluding certain other personal and commercial loans secured by mortgages on real estate properties, is to be determined by free competition. Accordingly, the regulations do not set a maximum rate for charges on retail installment sales contracts, small loans, and credit card purchases and set aside previous regulations which regulated these maximum finance charges. Furthermore, there is no maximum rate set for installment sales contracts involving motor vehicles, commercial, agricultural and industrial equipment, commercial electric appliances and insurance premiums. 

International Banking Act of Puerto Rico ("IBE Act 52") 

The business and operations of FirstBank International Branch ("FirstBank IBE" or the "IBE division of FirstBank") and FirstBank Overseas Corporation (the IBE subsidiary of FirstBank) are subject to supervision and regulation by the Commissioner. FirstBank and FirstBank Overseas Corporation were created under the IBE Act 52, which provides for total Puerto Rico tax exemption on net income derived by IBEs operating in Puerto Rico on the specific activities identified in the IBE Act. An IBE that operates as a unit of a bank pays income taxes at the corporate standard rates to the extent that the IBE’s net income exceeds 20% of the bank’s total net taxable income. Under the IBE Act 52, certain sales, encumbrances, assignments, mergers, exchanges or transfers of shares, interests or participation(s) in the capital of an international banking entity (an "IBE") may not be initiated without the prior approval of the Commissioner. The IBE Act 52 and the regulations issued thereunder by the Commissioner (the "IBE Regulations") limit the business activities that may be carried out by an IBE. Such activities are limited in part to persons and assets located outside of Puerto Rico. 

Pursuant to the IBE Act 52 and the IBE Regulations, each of FirstBank IBE and FirstBank Overseas Corporation must maintain locally books and records of all its transactions in the ordinary course of business. FirstBank IBE and FirstBank Overseas Corporation are also required thereunder to submit to the Commissioner quarterly and annual reports of their financial condition and results of operations, including annual audited financial statements. 

The IBE Act 52 empowers the Commissioner to revoke or suspend, after notice and hearing, a license issued thereunder if, among other things, the IBE fails to comply with the IBE Act 52, the IBE Regulations or the terms of its license, or if the Commissioner finds that the business or affairs of the IBE are conducted in a manner that is not consistent with the public interest. 

In 2012, the Puerto Rico Government approved Act Number 273 ("Act 273"). Act 273 replaces, prospectively, IBE Act 52 with the objective of improving the conditions for conducting international financial transactions in Puerto Rico. An IBE existing on the date of approval of Act 273, such as FirstBank IBE and FirstBank Overseas Corporation, can continue operating under IBE Act 52, or, it can voluntarily convert to an International Financial Entity ("IFE") under Act 273 so it may broaden its scope of Eligible IFE Activities, as defined below, and obtain a grant of tax exemption under Act 273. 

IFEs are licensed by the Commissioner, and authorized to conduct certain Act 273 specified financial transactions ("Eligible IFE Activities"). Once licensed, an IFE can request a grant of tax exemption ("Tax Grant") from the Puerto Rico Department of Economic Development and Commerce, which will enumerate and secure the following tax benefits provided by Act 273 as contractual rights (i.e., regardless of future changes in Puerto Rico law) for a fifteen (15) year period: 

(i) to the IFE: 

- a fixed 4% Puerto Rico income tax rate on the net income derived by the IFE from its Eligible IFE Activities; and 

- full property and municipal license tax exemptions on such activities. 

(ii) to its shareholders: 

- 6% income tax rate on distributions to Puerto Rico resident shareholders of earnings and profits derived from the Eligible IFE Activities; and 

- full Puerto Rico income tax exemption on such distributions to non-Puerto Rico resident shareholders. 

The primary purpose of IFEs is to attract Unites States and foreign investors to Puerto Rico. Consequently, Act 273 authorizes them to engage in traditional banking and financial transactions, principally with non-residents of Puerto Rico. Furthermore, the scope of Eligible IFE Activities encompasses a wider variety of transactions than those previously authorized to IBEs. 

As of the date of the issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, FirstBank IBE and FirstBank Overseas Corporation are operating under IBE Act 52. 

Puerto Rico Income Taxes 

Under the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 2011, as amended (the "2011 PR Code"), the Corporation and its subsidiaries are treated as separate taxable entities and are not entitled to file consolidated tax returns and, thus, the Corporation is not able to utilize losses from one subsidiary to offset gains in another subsidiary. Accordingly, in order to obtain a tax benefit from a net operating loss ("NOL"), a particular subsidiary must be able to demonstrate sufficient taxable income within the applicable NOL carry forward period. The 2011 PR Code provides a dividend received deduction of 100% on dividends received from "controlled" subsidiaries subject to taxation in Puerto Rico and 85% on dividends received from other taxable domestic corporations. 

Under the 2011 PR Code, First BanCorp. is subject to a maximum statutory tax rate of 39%. The 2011 PR Code also includes an alternative minimum tax of 30% that applies if the Corporation’s regular income tax liability is less than the alternative minimum tax requirements. 

The Corporation has maintained an effective tax rate lower than the maximum statutory rate in Puerto Rico mainly by investing in government obligations and mortgage-backed securities exempt from U.S. and Puerto Rico income taxes and by doing business through FirstBank IBE, and through the Bank’s subsidiary, FirstBank Overseas Corporation, whose interest income and gain on sales is exempt from Puerto Rico income taxation. 

During 2013, the Puerto Rico Government approved Act No. 40, which imposed a national gross receipts tax. The national gross receipts tax for financial institutions was computed on the basis of 1% of gross income net of allowable exclusions. Subject to certain limitations, a financial institution was able to claim a credit of 0.5% of its gross income against its regular income tax or the alternative minimum tax. However, on December 22, 2014, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed Act No. 238, which amended the 2011 PR Code. Act No. 238 clarified that the national gross receipts tax was not applicable to taxable years starting after December 31, 2014. Accordingly, the Corporation did not record a national gross receipts tax expense for 2015. During the year 2014, a $5.7 million gross receipts tax expense was included as part of "Taxes, other than income taxes" in the consolidated statement of income and a $2.9 million benefit related to this credit was recorded as a reduction to the provision for income taxes. 

On May 28 and September 30, 2015, the Puerto Rico legislature approved Act 72-2015 and Act 159-2015, respectively, which enacted amendments to the 2011 PR Code. The amendments related to the income tax provision include changes to the alternative minimum tax computation, and changes to the use limitation on NOLs and capital losses for 2015 and future taxable years. The change in the tax law affected the Corporation’s income tax computation by limiting the NOL deduction to 80% of taxable income, compared to a 90% limitation in prior years. 

Act 72-2015 also introduced a value added tax (the "VAT") on consumption, effective April 1, 2016, to replace the current sales and use tax ("SUT"), and certain temporary changes on SUT for the transition into the VAT. The changes in SUT include, an increase in tax rate from 7% to 11.5%, effective July 1, 2015, and a new 4% SUT on business to business services, and professional services, with certain exceptions, effective October 1, 2015. That law included a measure that the Puerto Rico Treasury Secretary could postpone for 60 days the application of the VAT provisions. Early in March 2016, the Puerto Rico Secretary of the Treasury postponed until June 1, 2016 the implementation of the VAT. Once the VAT enters in force, the 4% SUT imposed on certain business to business services and professional services will change into a 10.5% VAT and most transactions already subject to the 11.5% SUT will remain at the same rate under the VAT. Act 159-2015 included additional exemptions to the 4% SUT and 10.5% VAT such as for certain legal services, intangibles and transportation services. 

United States Income Taxes 

The Corporation is also subject to federal income tax on its income from sources within the United States and on any item of income that is, or is considered to be, effectively connected with the active conduct of a trade or business within the United States. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code provides for tax exemption of any portfolio interest received by a foreign corporation from sources within the United States; therefore, the Corporation is not subject to federal income tax on certain U.S. investments that qualify under the term "portfolio interest." 

Insurance Operations Regulation 

FirstBank Insurance Agency is registered as an insurance agency with the Insurance Commissioner of Puerto Rico and is subject to regulations issued by the Insurance Commissioner relating to, among other things, the licensing of employees and sales and solicitation and advertising practices, and by the Federal Reserve as to certain consumer protection provisions mandated by the GLB Act and its implementing regulations. 

Mortgage Banking Operations 

In addition to FDIC and CFPB regulation, FirstBank is subject to the rules and regulations of the FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (the "HUD") with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans and the issuance and sale of mortgage-backed securities. Those rules and regulations, among other things, prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines that include provisions for inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts, and, with respect to VA loans, fix maximum interest rates. Moreover, lenders such as FirstBank are required annually to submit audited financial statements to the FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD and each regulatory entity has its own financial requirements. FirstBank’s affairs are also subject to supervision and examination by the FHA, VA, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD at all times to assure compliance with applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Mortgage origination activities are subject to, among other requirements, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder that, among other things, prohibit discrimination and require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit terms and settlement costs. FirstBank is licensed by the Commissioner under the Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Law, and, as such, is subject to regulation by the Commissioner, with respect to, among other things, licensing requirements and the establishment of maximum origination fees on certain types of mortgage loan products. 

Section 5 of the Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Law requires the prior approval of the Commissioner for the acquisition of control of any mortgage banking institution licensed under such law. For purposes of the Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Law, the term "control" means the power to direct or influence decisively, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of a mortgage banking institution. The Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Law provides that a transaction that results in the holding of less than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of a mortgage banking institution shall not be considered a change in control. 

