 Item 1. Business 

GENERAL DISCUSSION 

Frequency Electronics, Inc. (sometimes referred to as "Registrant", "Frequency Electronics" or the "Company") is a world leader in precision time and frequency generation technology, which is employed in commercial, government, Command, Control, Communication, Computer, Intelligence, Security and Reconnaissance (&#8220;C4ISR&#8221;) and other military electronic systems. Its technology is used for a wide range of terrestrial and space applications.

Unless the context indicates otherwise, references to the Registrant or the Company are to Frequency Electronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries. References to &#8220;FEI&#8221; are to the parent company alone and do not refer to any of the subsidiaries. Frequency Electronics, a Delaware corporation, has its principal executive office at 55 Charles Lindbergh Boulevard, Mitchel Field, New York 11553. Its telephone number is 516-794-4500 and its website is www.frequencyelectronics.com. 

Frequency Electronics was founded in 1961 as a research and development firm generating proprietary precision time and frequency technology primarily under contracts for end-use by the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) Government. In the mid-1990&#8217;s, the Company evolved into a designer, developer and manufacturer of state-of-the-art products for both commercial and government end-use. The Company&#8217;s present mission is to be the world leader in providing precision time and low phase noise frequency generation systems, from 1 Hz to 46 GHz for space and other challenging environments. The Company&#8217;s technology is the key element in enhancing the functionality and performance of many electronic systems.

MARKETS 

The Company&#8217;s dominant end market is satellite payloads, a market in which it has a unique legacy of providing master timing systems, power converters, and frequency generation, synthesis and distribution systems. It is currently addressing new opportunities in frequency converters and receivers, representing a significant increase in the potential revenue for FEI products on any one satellite. These products support primary and hosted payloads for both commercial and U.S. Government end-use. Currently, approximately one thousand satellites with varying remaining years of useful life are operating in High/Geostationary, Medium and Low Earth Orbits. This number of operational satellites is expected to continue to grow over the next ten years as many new satellites are added and older ones are replaced. In addition, there are various mega-constellations being planned for the very near future that will operate in low and mid earth orbits.

The Company&#8217;s products support multiple C4ISR counter measures and additional defense electronic applications for the U.S. Government on land, sea and air-borne platforms. Recently identified threats to the communication capabilities of U.S. Government facilities through jamming, multi-path or &#8220;spoofing&#8221; GPS signals may be mitigated by the Company&#8217;s technologies. High precision, ruggedized clocks combined with specialized software are essential for communication and operational security.

Commercial markets include network infrastructure and other industrial uses. The Company&#8217;s products support precise signal synchronization in mobile and wireline communication networks to maintain quality of service. Its products support expanded bandwidth and security in public and enterprise networks. The vast world-wide wireline network infrastructure incorporates thousands of central offices which provide network integrity and interconnectivity. The Company provides remote terminal units (&#8220;RTUs&#8221;) for management of networks such as power grids and gas lines as well as specialized timing technology for oil and gas exploration.

To address these markets, the Company has several corporate entities which operate under three reportable segments primarily based on the geographic locations of its subsidiaries.

1. FEI-NY The Company&#8217;s satellite payload products for U.S. Government and commercial satellite programs are designed, developed and manufactured at its Long Island, New York facility. At this location the Company also applies its technology and legacy to products for the U.S. military and other U.S. Government agencies, as well as products for certain terrestrial commercial communications and other industrial applications. 

Frequency Electronics, Inc. Asia (&#8220;FEI-Asia&#8221;) was established in fiscal year 2002 as a wholly-owned subsidiary, to be the Company&#8217;s Asia-based low cost manufacturer of certain commercial communications products used primarily in the wireless and wireline markets as well as power grids. FEI-Asia is located in the Free-Trade Zone in Tianjin, China.

The Company&#8217;s subsidiary, FEI-Elcom Tech, Inc. (&#8220;FEI-Elcom&#8221;) designs and manufactures Radio Frequency (&#8220;RF&#8221;) microwave devices and subsystems up to 46 GHz including fast switching, ultra-low phase noise synthesizers, up-down converters, receivers, ceramic resonant oscillators and dielectric resonant oscillators. These instruments and components are critical for communication, surveillance, signal intelligence, automatic testing, satellite ground stations and satellite payloads. FEI-Elcom&#8217;s RF microwave technology has also been utilized to develop new products for application in the Company&#8217;s satellite payload end market.

2. Gillam-FEI - The Company&#8217;s Belgian subsidiary, Gillam-FEI, s.a. (&#8220;Gillam-FEI&#8221;) develops and manufactures products for various network management and synchronization systems for different industries, utilities, railways and telecommunications providers in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. 

3. FEI-Zyfer - Precision time and frequency products that incorporate global positioning systems (&#8220;GPS&#8221;) technology are manufactured by the Company&#8217;s subsidiary FEI-Zyfer, Inc. (&#8220;FEI-Zyfer&#8221;). FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s GPS capability complements the Company&#8217;s existing technologies and permits the combined entities to provide a broader range of embedded systems for a variety of timing functions and anti-spoofing (&#8220;SAASM&#8221;) applications. FEI-Zyfer also provides sales and support in the U.S. for the Company&#8217;s wireline telecommunications family of products. 

For additional information about these reportable segments, see &#8220;Item 1. Business &#8211; Reportable Segments and Products.&#8221;

In addition to its subsidiaries, the Company made a strategic investment in and licensed certain technology to Morion, Inc. (&#8220;Morion&#8221;), a Russian crystal oscillator manufacturer located in St. Petersburg, Russia. The Company&#8217;s ownership of 4.6% of the outstanding shares of Morion&#8217;s common stock permits the Company to secure a cost-effective source for high precision quartz resonators and crystal oscillators. The Morion investment is accounted for under the cost method. For more information regarding the Company&#8217;s investment in Morion, see Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS 

The Company operates under three reportable segments, primarily aligned with the geographical locations of its subsidiaries: (1) FEI-NY, (2) Gillam-FEI; and (3) FEI-Zyfer. Within each segment the Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets precision time and frequency control products for different markets as described below. The Company&#8217;s Chief Executive Officer measures segment performance based on total revenues and profits generated by each geographic center rather than on the specific types of customers or end-users. Consequently, the Company determined that the segments indicated above appropriately reflect the way the Company&#8217;s management views the business. The FEI-NY segment, which operates out of the Company&#8217;s Long Island, New York headquarters facility, also includes the operations of the Company&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiaries, FEI-Asia and FEI-Elcom. FEI-Asia functions as a manufacturing facility for FEI-NY and other segments with historically minimal sales to outside customers. Beginning in late fiscal year 2014, FEI-Asia began shipping higher volumes of product to third parties as a contract manufacturer. FEI-Elcom, in addition to its own product line, provides design and technical support for the FEI-NY segment&#8217;s satellite business. The products manufactured by the FEI-NY segment are principally marketed to the commercial and U.S. Government satellite markets, to other U.S. Department of Defense (&#8220;DOD&#8221;) programs and to wireless communications networks. The Gillam-FEI segment operates out of Belgium and France and designs, develops and manufactures products for network synchronization and monitoring. Its products are currently sold primarily to non-U.S. customers. The primary business of the FEI-Zyfer segment, which operates out of California, is the design and manufacture of products which incorporate GPS technologies and rugged high-precision-clocks that are designed and manufactured at FEI-NY. FEI-Zyfer sells its products to both commercial and U.S. Government customers, collaborates with other FEI segments on joint product development activities and provides sales and support for network synchronization products.

During fiscal years 2016 and 2015, approximately 73% and 81%, respectively, of the Company&#8217;s consolidated revenues were from products sold by the FEI-NY segment. Sales by Gillam-FEI were approximately 10% of consolidated revenues for fiscal years 2016 and 2015. In fiscal years 2016 and 2015, sales for the FEI-Zyfer segment were 20% and 12% of consolidated revenues, respectively. (The sum of annual sales percentages exceeds 100% due to intersegment sales.)

Consolidated revenues include sales to end-users in countries located outside of the U.S, primarily in Europe and China. During fiscal years 2016 and 2015, foreign sales comprised 19% and 31%, respectively, of consolidated revenues. For segment information, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

FEI-NY segment :

The Company provides precision time, frequency generation and synchronization products and subsystems that are found on-board satellites, in ground-based communication stations, and imbedded in moving platforms operated by the U.S. military. The Company has made a substantial investment in research and development to apply its core technologies to satellite payloads, non-space DOD programs and network infrastructure markets. Revenues from satellite payloads, both for commercial and U.S. Government applications have increased in recent years while the portion of network infrastructure sales was reduced. The Company expects to continue to generate substantial revenues from deployment of new and replacement satellites and other U.S. Government/DOD applications including sales of ruggedized subsystems for moving platforms of the U.S. military.

Satellite Payloads

The use of satellites launched for communications, navigation, weather forecasting, video and data transmissions and Internet access has expanded the need to transmit increasing amounts of voice, video, and data to earth-based receivers. This requires more precise timing and frequency control at the satellite. The Company manufactures the master timing systems (quartz, rubidium and cesium) and other significant timing and frequency generation products for communication satellites, and many of the Company&#8217;s other space assemblies are used onboard spacecraft for command, control and power distribution. Efficient and reliable DC-DC power converters are also manufactured for the Company&#8217;s own assemblies and as stand-alone products for space applications. The Company&#8217;s oven-controlled quartz crystal oscillators are cost-effective precision clocks suited for high-end performance required in satellite transmissions, airborne telephony and geophysical survey positioning systems. Newly developed and upgraded frequency generators, synthesizers, and up/down converters and receivers have augmented the Company&#8217;s product offerings and positioned the Company to provide a greater share of a typical satellite&#8217;s payload. Commercial satellite programs which utilize the Company&#8217;s space-qualified products include Iridium NEXT Constellation, Intelsat EPIC, O3B, WAAS, MexSat, MSV, ICO, TerreStar, EchoStar, Inmarsat and numerous others. The Company is also positioned to participate in certain large constellations being planned for the very near future that will operate in low or mid earth orbits such as the O3B Next Generation Constellation and the LeoSat constellation that consists of up to 108 satellites.

In the years ahead, the Company expects that the U.S. DOD will require more secure communication capabilities, more assets in space and greater bandwidth. The Global Positioning Satellite System, the MILSTAR Satellite System and the AEHF Satellite System are examples of the programs in which the Company participates - programs which management believes are important to the success of the U.S. Government&#8217;s security, communication and intelligence needs. The Company has manufactured the master clock for the Trident missile, the basic timing system for the Voyager I and Voyager II deep space exploratory missions and the quartz timing system for the Space Shuttle. The Company&#8217;s product offerings for U.S. Government satellite programs are similar in design and function to those used on commercial satellites, as described above.

U.S. Government - Non-space:

In addition to space-based programs, the Company&#8217;s proprietary products have been used in airborne and ground-based guidance, navigation, communications, radar, sonar surveillance and electronic countermeasure and timing systems. The Company has developed and patented a low g-sensitivity (gravity) technology which offers a 100-fold improvement in performance under shock, vibration and other environmental effects. Products are built in accordance with DOD standards and are in use on many of the U.S. Government&#8217;s important military applications. The Company anticipates that adequate funds will be provided by the U.S. Government to ensure that these programs are sustained.

FEI-Elcom designs and manufactures RF microwave devices and subsystems up to 46 GHz including fast switching, ultra low phase noise synthesizers, up-down converters, receivers, ceramic resonant oscillators and dielectric resonant oscillators. These instruments and components are important for communication, surveillance, signal intelligence, automatic testing, satellite ground stations and satellite payloads.

The Company&#8217;s sales on U.S. Government programs for both space and non-space applications are generally made under fixed price contracts either directly with U.S. Government agencies or indirectly through subcontracts intended for government end-use. The price paid to the Company is not subject to adjustment by reason of the costs incurred by the Company in the performance of the contract, except for costs incurred due to contract changes ordered by the customer. These contracts are negotiated on terms under which the Company bears the risk of cost overruns and derives the benefit from cost savings.

The federal budget for U.S. military programs has been under intense scrutiny in recent years. The Budget Control Act of 2011, which went into effect in March 2013, was an example of U.S. Government efforts to reduce the federal deficit by a process known as sequestration. Due to continuing budgetary concerns, future annual budgets proposed by the federal administration and Congress may include lower spending for U.S. military programs. As indicated above, many of the programs and platforms for which the Company supplies products and systems, are used by the U.S. Government for maintaining secure communications world-wide, for obtaining vital intelligence and for enabling precision targeting capabilities. It is the belief of management that the future success of the mission of the U.S. military and intelligence gathering community is dependent on successful and timely deployment of these systems. Thus, the Company anticipates that adequate funds will be provided by the U.S. Government to ensure that the programs are completed. The Company&#8217;s experience indicates that some programs or product sales have been slowed or delayed due to U.S. Government spending constraints.

Recently the Company has also received several cost-plus-fee contracts. Under these contracts, the Company may be able to recover all of its direct and indirect costs related to the programs plus a pre-determined fee. In the event of substantial cost overruns, the fee may be reduced.

Negotiations on U.S. Government contracts are sometimes based in part on Certificates of Current Costs. An inaccuracy in such certificates may entitle the government to an appropriate recovery. From time to time, the Defense Contracts Audit Agency ("DCAA") audits the Company's accounts with respect to these contracts. The last full DCAA audit was performed in 2008, however the Company is required annually to submit an incurred cost report at the end of October for the year that ended the preceding April. All reports have been submitted and approved except for the report for fiscal 2015, for which the Company has not received a rate approval letter yet.

All U.S. Government end-use contracts are subject to termination by the purchaser for the convenience of the U.S. Government and are subject to various other provisions for the protection of the U.S. Government. In the event of such termination, the Company is entitled to receive compensation as provided under such contracts and in the applicable U.S. Government regulations. There were no end-use contracts terminated for the year ended April 30, 2016.

Network Infrastructure

The development of new and enhanced technologies brings expanded and more reliable telecommunications and Internet services to the public. As digital cellular systems and Personal Communication Systems (&#8220;PCS&#8221;) networks grow they require more base stations to meet the demand for better connectivity, higher data rates and dependable high quality for cell phone service. Cellular infrastructure integrators and original equipment manufacturers, consisting of some of the world&#8217;s largest telecommunications companies, are building out existing networks even as they develop new technologies for future systems.

In conjunction with its European subsidiary, Gillam-FEI, the Company has developed state-of-the-art network synchronization equipment. These products are intended to provide synchronization and timing references for communication and enterprise networks within the U.S. and overseas.

Gillam-FEI segment :

Gillam-FEI extends the Company&#8217;s competencies into network synchronization, network management, and specialized test equipment. With the advent of new digital broadband transmission technologies, reliable synchronization remains the warranty to quality of service for telecommunications operators. Gillam-FEI is among the world leaders in the field of wireline synchronization technology and its products are targeted towards telecommunication operators and network equipment manufacturers that utilize modular and flexible platforms to build reliable digital-network-systems worldwide. Telecommunications operators such as The Proximus Group, formerly known as Belgacom, France Telecom, Telefonica and other service providers are among Gillam-FEI&#8217;s major customers. Gillam-FEI also provides ancillary products intended for deployment in the European, Middle Eastern, Asian and African markets. Included in its family of products is a remote terminal unit (&#8220;GRTU&#8221;) that Gillam-FEI developed in concert with a major French electric utility company. The GRTU is intended to monitor the electrical current in a power grid and relay the information to a central location. Gillam-FEI markets variants of this product to other electric utility companies in projects to create &#8220;smart&#8221; grids.

FEI-Zyfer segment :

FEI-Zyfer designs, develops and manufactures products for precision time and frequency generation and synchronization, primarily incorporating GPS technology. FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s products make use of both &#8220;in-the-clear&#8221; civil and &#8220;crypto-secured&#8221; military signals from GPS. In most cases, FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s products are integrated into communications systems, computer networks, test equipment, and military command and control terminals for ground and satellite link applications. More than 85% of revenues are derived from sales where the end user is the U.S. Government. FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s products are an important extension of FEI&#8217;s core product line, specifically in the area of GPS capabilities. In addition, FEI-Zyfer provides sales and support for the Company&#8217;s family of wireline telecommunications and derivative products. Recently identified threats to the communication capabilities of U.S. Government facilities through jamming, multi-path or &#8220;spoofing&#8221; GPS signals may be mitigated by FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s technologies and products. High precision, ruggedized clocks combined with specialized software are essential for communication and operational security.

BACKLOG 

As of April 30, 2016, the Company's consolidated backlog amounted to approximately $32 million compared to approximately $37 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. Approximately 75% of the current backlog is expected to be filled during the Company&#8217;s fiscal year ending April 30, 2017. As of April 30, 2016, there are no amounts included in backlog under cost-plus fee contracts. The Company excludes from backlog any contracts or awards for which it has not received authorization to proceed. On fixed price contracts, the Company excludes any unfunded portion. The Company expects any partially funded contracts to become fully funded over time and will add the additional funding to its backlog at that time. The backlog is subject to change by reason of several factors including possible cancellation of orders, change orders, terms of the contracts and other factors beyond the Company's control. Accordingly, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the revenues or profits (losses) which may be realized when the results of such contracts are reported.

CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 

The Company markets its products both directly and through approximately 30 independent sales representative organizations located in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Sales to non-U.S. end-users, which includes the revenues of its overseas subsidiaries, totaled approximately 19% and 31%, respectively, of net revenues in fiscal years 2016 and 2015.

The Company's products are sold to both commercial and governmental customers. For the years ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, approximately 60% and 47%, respectively, of the Company's sales were made under contracts to the U.S. Government or subcontracts for U.S. Government end-use.

During fiscal year 2016, Boeing Corporation (&#8220;Boeing&#8221;), Lockheed Martin Corporation (&#8220;Lockheed&#8221;), Northrop Grumman Corporation (&#8220;Northrop&#8221;) and Space and Intelligence Systems/Harris Corporation (&#8220;Harris&#8221;), each accounted for more than 10% of FEI-NY segment revenues; additionally, Boeing and Lockheed also each accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues. During fiscal year 2015, Boeing, Northrop, and Thales Alenia Space (&#8220;Thales&#8221;) each accounted for more than 10% of FEI-NY segment revenues; Boeing and Thales also each accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues.

During fiscal years 2016 and 2015, The Proximus Group, formerly known as Belgacom, was a major customer of the Gillam-FEI segment, accounting for more than 10% of that segment&#8217;s revenues in each year.

During fiscal year 2016, Copper River Information Technology and Raytheon Company were major customers of the FEI-Zyfer segment, each accounting for more than 10% of the segment&#8217;s revenues. During fiscal year 2015, L-3 Communications and Copper River Information Technology each accounted for more than 10% of FEI-Zyfer&#8217;s revenues.

The loss by the Company of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business. The Company believes its relationship with these companies to be mutually satisfactory and is not aware of any prospect for the cancellation or significant reduction of any of its commercial or existing U.S. Government contracts.

The Company purchases a variety of components such as transistors, resistors, capacitors, connectors and diodes for use in the manufacture of its products. The Company is not dependent upon any one supplier or source of supply for any of its component part purchases and maintains alternative sources of supply for all of its purchased components. The Company has found its suppliers generally to be reliable and price-competitive.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

The Company's technological leadership continues to be an important factor to support future growth in revenues and earnings. The Company has focused its internal research and development efforts on improving the core physics and electronic packages in its time and frequency products, conducting research to develop new time and frequency technologies, improving product manufacturability by seeking to reduce its production costs through product redesign and process improvements and other measures to take advantage of lower cost components.

The Company continues to focus a significant portion of its own resources and efforts on developing hardware for satellite (commercial and U.S. Government) and terrestrial commercial communications systems, including wireless, wireline and GPS-related systems. During fiscal years 2016 and 2015, the Company expended $5.9 million and $5.7 million of its own funds, respectively, on such research and development activity. See &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; During fiscal years 2016 and 2015, some of the Company&#8217;s development resources were applied to certain cost-plus-fee contracts and the design-stage of fixed-price satellite payload programs. For fiscal year 2017, the Company anticipates that internal research and development spending will not exceed the amount expended during fiscal year 2016 and will remain at less than 10% of revenues. The actual amount spent in fiscal year 2017 will depend on market conditions and identification of new opportunities.

PATENTS AND LICENSES 

The Company believes that its business is generally not dependent on patent or license protection. Rather, it is primarily dependent upon the Company's technical competence, the quality of its products and its prompt and responsible contract performance. However, employees working for the Company assign all rights to inventions to the Company and the Company presently holds such patents and licenses. In certain limited circumstances, the U.S. Government may use or permit the use by the Company&#8217;s competitors of certain patents or licenses the government has funded. During fiscal year 2003, the Company received a broad and significant patent for, proprietary quartz oscillator technology which the Company intends to exploit in both legacy and new applications. In 2006, the Company obtained a basic patent for its low g-sensitivity technology which management believes will permit greatly enhanced performance of devices on moving platforms and under externally imposed shock or vibration.

COMPETITION 

The Company experiences competition in all areas of its business. Many of the Company's competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have larger research and development and marketing staffs. The Company has a strong history of competing successfully in this environment due to the quality, reliability and outstanding record of performance its products have achieved. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the accuracy, performance and reliability of its products, the ability of its products to function under severe conditions, such as in space or in other extremely hostile environments, and the Company&#8217;s track record of prompt and responsive contract performance and technical competence. The Company has a unique and broad product line which includes quartz, rubidium, and cesium-based timing references and specialized RF microwave technology. With respect to very high precision products, the Company encounters fewer competitors than it does for lower precision products for which there are a significant number of suppliers.

The Company&#8217;s principal competition for space products is the in-house capability of its major customers such as Boeing, Northrop, Lockheed Martin and Space Systems Loral as well as a number of other firms capable of providing high-reliability microwave frequency generators. With respect to non-space products, instruments and systems for timing and synchronization, the Company competes with large domestic companies such as Excelitas Technologies Corp. (a Veritas Capital portfolio company), Microsemi Corporation and Vectron, Inc., a division of Dover Corp. The Company also competes against multiple foreign entities including Korean and other Asian enterprises such as the Chinese company, Huawei. In Europe large competitors include Siemens, Schneider Electric and Oscilloquartz, a division of ADVA Optical Networking SE.

The Company has successfully outsourced certain manufacturing processes to third parties and to its wholly-owned subsidiary, FEI-Asia in Tianjin, China and to Russia-based Morion, in which the Company is a minority shareholder. The Company conducts this outsourcing to maintain a competitive position on cost while adhering to its high quality standards. The Company believes its ability to obtain raw materials, manufacture finished products, integrate them into systems and sub-systems and interface these systems with highly sophisticated end-user applications provides a strong competitive edge.

EMPLOYEES 

The Company employs approximately 390 full-time persons worldwide. None of the U.S. or Chinese employees are represented by labor unions.

OTHER ASPECTS 

The Company's business is not seasonal although it expects to experience some fluctuation in revenues during the second fiscal quarter as a result of summer holiday periods. No unusual working capital requirements exist.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 

The executive officers hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders, subject to earlier removal by the Board of Directors.

The names of all executive officers of the Company and all positions and offices with the Company which they presently hold are as follows:

Martin B. Bloch

-

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Markus Hechler

-

Executive Vice President, President of FEI Government Systems, Inc. and Secretary and Treasurer

Oleandro Mancini

-

Senior Vice President, Business Development

Steven Strang

-

President, FEI-Zyfer

James Davis

-

President, FEI-Elcom Tech

Leonard Martire

-

Vice President, Program Management

Thomas McClelland

-

Vice President, Advanced Development

Adrian Lalicata

-

Vice President, RF &#38; Microwave Systems

Steven L. Bernstein

-

Chief Financial Officer

None of the officers and directors is related.

Martin B. Bloch, age 80, has been a Director of the Company and of its predecessor since 1961. Mr. Bloch is the Company&#8217;s President and Chief Executive Officer and has held such positions since inception of the Company, except for the period from December 1993 through October 1998 when General Franklin held the CEO position. Previous to forming the Company, Mr. Bloch served as chief electronics engineer of the Electronics Division of Bulova Watch Company.

Markus Hechler, age 70, joined the Company in 1967. He was elected to the position of Executive Vice President in February 1999, prior to which he served as Vice President, Manufacturing since 1982. In October 2001, he was named President of the Company&#8217;s subsidiary, FEI Government Systems, Inc. He has served as Assistant Secretary since 1978.

Oleandro Mancini, age 67, joined the Company in August 2000 as Vice President, Business Development and was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mancini served from 1998 as Vice President, Sales and Marketing at Satellite Transmission Systems, Inc. and from 1995 to 1998 as Vice President, Business Development at Cardion, Inc., a Siemens A.G. company. From 1987 to 1995, he held the position of Vice President, Engineering at Cardion, Inc.

Steven Strang, age 52, was named President of FEI-Zyfer, Inc., effective May 1, 2005. Previously, Mr. Strang was Executive Vice President of this subsidiary and its predecessor companies where he has served for 20 years in various technical and management positions.

James Davis, age 63, is the President of FEI-Elcom Tech, Inc. which the Company acquired in February 2012. Mr. Davis was named an officer of the Company in October 2013. Mr. Davis became the president of Elcom Technologies, Inc., the pre-acquisition company, on September 20, 2007. Prior to joining FEI-Elcom, Mr. Davis held leadership positions at other technology companies including General Manager of Hewlett Packard&#8217;s (Agilent) Semiconductor Systems Center, Vice President and General Manager of Schlumberger Technologies N.A. and Vice President and General Manager of Gretag Macbeth LLC. Mr. Davis also held the rank of Captain as a U.S. Army Special Forces Team Commander.

Leonard Martire, age 79, joined the Company in August 1987 and served as Executive Vice President of FEI Microwave, Inc., the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, until May 1993 when he was elected Vice President, Marketing and Sales. In fiscal year 2007, Mr. Martire assumed the role of Vice President Program Management.

Thomas McClelland, age 61, joined the Company as an engineer in 1984 and was elected Vice President, Commercial Products in March 1999. In fiscal year 2011, Mr. McClelland&#8217;s title was modified to Vice President Advanced Development to describe his expanded role in the Company.

Adrian Lalicata, age 69, joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, RF &#38; Microwave Systems. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Lalicata served as Vice President of Engineering at Herley-CTI and Communication Techniques, a Dover Company. Mr Lalicata has served as Director of Engineering at Microphase Corp. and Adcomm, Inc. He also held leading engineering positions at Loral Electronic Systems, Cardion Electronics, and Airborne Instruments Laboratories.

Steven L. Bernstein, age 51, joined the Company in April 2010 as its controller and was appointed to the position of Chief Financial Officer in April 2016. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bernstein worked in the North America accounting group of a Fortune 500 electronics distributor.

