 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S&#38;P 500 Index. We serve approximately 13,000 &#32;clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants, mutual savings banks, and building societies. We provide account processing systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment services, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH transaction processing, account-to-account transfers, and person-to-person payments; internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging, source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and services. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are principally located in the United States where we operate data and transaction processing centers, provide technology support, develop software and payment solutions, and offer consulting services. We also own a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P. (&#8220;StoneRiver&#8221;), which is comprised of our former insurance services businesses. 

In 2015 , we had $5.3 billion &#32;in total revenue, $1.3 billion &#32;in operating income and net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations of $1.3 billion . Processing and services revenue, which in 2015 &#32;represented 84% &#32;of our total consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years and high renewal rates. Revenue to clients outside the United States comprised approximately 6% &#32;of total revenue in each of 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;and 7% &#32;in 2013 . 

We have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, extending our capabilities through innovation, adding new clients, cross-selling to existing clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours, which has enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services and has created new opportunities for growth. 

We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000. 

Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products (&#8220;Payments&#8221;) and Financial Institution Services (&#8220;Financial&#8221;) business segments. Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 9 &#32; to the consolidated financial statements. 

Payments 

The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic payment transactions and to offer their customers access to financial services and transaction capability through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing number of payment transactions are completed electronically as our clients&#8217; customers seek the convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide debit and credit card processing and services, electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, person-to-person payment services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. Our solutions in the Payments segment include: 

Electronic Payments 

Our electronic payments business is comprised of electronic bill payment and presentment services and other electronic payment services for businesses and consumers, such as person-to-person payments, account-to-account transfers, account opening and funding, and small business invoicing and payments. Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product, CheckFree &#174; &#32;RXP &#174; , allows our clients&#8217; customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view billing and payment information; to pay and manage all of their bills in one place; for certain billers, to experience speed comparable to payment at a biller&#8217;s site via same-day bill payment; and to make convenient next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our systems to process the vast majority of the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us or can instruct the system to pay individuals or companies that have bank accounts located within the U.S. 

Our person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney &#174; , allows consumers a convenient way to send and receive money while offering financial institutions the opportunity to generate new transaction-based revenue, attract new accounts and increase loyalty among existing customers. Popmoney Instant Payments extends the functionality of the Popmoney personal payment service by enabling near real-time exchange of funds. Popmoney can be accessed through the www.popmoney.com website, our mobile applications for iPhone &#174; &#32;and Android &#8482; , or the websites and mobile banking applications of participating financial institutions. As of December 31, 2015 , more than 2,400 financial institutions have agreed to offer our person-to-person payments services to their customers. 

Digital Channels 

Our principal online consumer and business banking products for larger financial institutions are Corillian Online &#174; &#32;and Corillian &#174; &#32;Business Online. Corillian Online and Corillian Business Online support multiple lines of banking businesses and have been designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment, person-to-person payments and personal financial management tools, to any internet connected point-of-presence. We provide the advanced capabilities of Corillian Online as an outsourced service or as a licensed solution. 

Our Mobiliti &#8482; &#32;product suite provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services through a mobile or tablet device to our clients and their customers, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment, person-to-person payments and transfers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers because it supports all three mobile access modes: mobile browser, downloadable application for smart phones and tablets, and text message. We provide an outsourced version of Mobiliti as well as a highly customizable licensed version. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 2,200 mobile banking clients. 

Card Services 

Our card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit transaction processing, signature debit processing, ATM processing, private label and bankcard credit card processing, and national and regional network access. We own the Accel &#174; &#32;network and process transactions conducted at approximately 21,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration with our account processing products and services allows us to reduce costs and increase efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings 

in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Our card services business has nearly 4,600 relationships, including banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, finance companies, independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the U.S. 

Biller Solutions 

Our biller business provides electronic billing and payment services to companies that deliver bills to their customer base, such as utilities, telephone and cable companies, consumer lending institutions, and insurance providers, enabling our biller clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster, increase customer satisfaction, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. We believe that consumers will continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional, paper-based methods to electronic methods if they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective methods of receiving and paying their bills electronically. Consumers use our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution&#8217;s bill payment application, use of a biller&#8217;s website, mobile application or automated phone system, www.mycheckfree.com, or by paying in person at one of 23,000 nationwide walk-in payment locations at retail stores operated by walk-in agents. These diverse services allow our clients&#8217; customers to view and pay bills wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house developed systems. 

Output Solutions 

Our output solutions business provides business communication solutions to clients across a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, retail, utilities, and travel and entertainment. Our products and services include: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; branded merchandise; and office supplies. 

Investment Services 

Our investment services business provides technology solutions that enable financial planning, portfolio management and trading, model management, performance measurement, and reporting products and services to approximately 300 financial service organizations, including broker dealers, registered investment advisors, banks and insurance companies that deliver financial advice and managed account products to U.S. retail investors. Our investment services business also supports global institutional asset managers with portfolio accounting, performance analytics, fee billing and revenue management, and post-trade processing technology. 

Our fee-based wealth management clients are typically sponsors or managers that create or offer a variety of managed account programs to U.S. retail investors, including mutual fund advisory programs, separately managed accounts and unified managed accounts. Our primary product, the Unified Wealth Platform, is a real-time portfolio management, trading and reporting system used by some of the largest brokerage firms, based on assets under management, and asset managers in the U.S. offering managed accounts. Our industry-leading platform supported more than 4.8 million accounts as of December 31, 2015 . 

Risk Management Solutions 

Our risk management solutions business provides financial and risk management products and services that deliver operating efficiencies and management insight which enable our clients to protect and grow their businesses. Our solutions consist of Enterprise Performance Management, Financial Crime Risk Management and Financial Control Solutions. 

Financial 

The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations now license software from third parties or outsource their data processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. The licensing of software reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing data processing operations reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate systems internally. Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts, credit unions, and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Many of the products and services that we sell are integrated with solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services, and person-to-person payments. Our solutions in the Financial segment include: 

Account Processing 

We provide account servicing and management technology solutions to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as a range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a financial institution to operate systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution&#8217;s general ledger, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Although many of our clients contract to obtain a majority of their data processing requirements from us, our software design allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client&#8217;s initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients&#8217; ability to change technology and broadens our market opportunity. 

The principal account processing solutions used by our bank and thrift clients are Cleartouch &#174; , DNA &#174; , Precision &#174; , Premier &#174; , Signature &#174; &#32;and TotalPlus &#174; . The principal account processing solutions primarily used by our credit union clients are Advantage &#8482; , Charlotte SM , CubicsPlus &#174; , CUnify &#8482; , CUSA &#174; , DataSafe &#174; , DNA, Galaxy &#174; , OnCU &#174; , Portico &#174; , Reliance &#174; , Spectrum &#174; &#32;and XP2 &#174; . The Signature and DNA systems are available both domestically and internationally. In addition, we offer Agiliti &#8482; as a software-as-a-service solution to the UK financial services industry. Account processing solutions are generally offered as an outsourced service or as licensed software for installation on client-owned or hosted computer systems. 

In the first quarter of 2013, we acquired Open Solutions Inc. (&#8220;Open Solutions&#8221;), a provider of account processing technology for financial institutions. Open Solutions&#8217; primary account processing product, DNA, is a real-time platform designed to enable financial institutions to easily add and customize ancillary solutions using its applications feature. This acquisition advanced our go-to-market strategies by adding a number of products and services and by expanding the number of account processing clients to which we can provide our broad array of add-on solutions. 

Item Processing 

Our item processing business offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients&#8217; check capture environments from paper-based to electronic. 

Lending and Other Solutions 

Our lending business offers life-of-loan products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries including loan originations, servicing and default systems primarily for auto, consumer and real estate. In addition, our lending solutions include a full complement of services, such as customization, business process outsourcing, education, consulting and implementation services. 

Other businesses in this segment provide solutions for ACH, treasury management, case management and resolution, source capture optimization, and enterprise cash and content management to the financial services industry. Our offerings include PEP+ &#174; , Integrated Currency Manager&#8482;, Device Manager&#8482;, CorPoint &#174; , LoanComplete&#8482;, Titan&#8482;, Director &#174; , and our remote deposit capture solutions branded as Source Capture Solutions &#174; . 

Our Strategy 

Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships which are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework: 

&#8226; 

Portfolio Management . We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. 

&#8226; 

Client Relationship Value . We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products, services and sales groups; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support. 

&#8226; 

Operational Effectiveness . We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and optimizing our facilities to create cost savings. 

&#8226; 

Capital Discipline . We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions. 

&#8226; 

Innovation . We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry. 

Servicing the Market 

The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, and cost effectiveness. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients. 

Product Development 

To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In each of 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , product development expenditures represented approximately 9% &#32;of our total revenue. Our development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create efficiencies, and we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients. 

Intellectual Property 

We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. Our patents cover innovations relating to numerous financial software products and services, and we continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our ongoing innovations. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business. 

Competition 

The market for technology products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Outside the U.S., we see increasing competition by the largest banks, governments, telecommunications providers and other providers with significant resources. Furthermore, we expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand their product lines and services. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated product offerings and through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, security, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and features, and price. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. Additional information about competition in our segments is provided below. 

Payments 

We compete with a number of competitors in our bill payment, digital channels, card services and biller businesses, including ACI Worldwide, Inc., Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (&#8220;FIS&#8221;), First Data Corporation, Jack Henry and Associates Inc. (&#8220;Jack Henry&#8221;), MasterCard Incorporated, NCR Corporation, Q2, Inc., Total System Services, Inc.,Vantiv, Inc., Visa Inc. and The Western Union Company. In addition to traditional payments competitors, large technology, media and other providers are increasingly seeking to provide or facilitate a wide range of point of sale and non-point of sale payments. These newer 

competitors include, but are not limited to, Alphabet Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Apple Inc., Facebook, Inc., Intuit Inc., PayPal Holdings, Inc., Samsung Group, Starbucks Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Certain existing and potential financial institution and biller clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our products and services. In addition, many companies that provide solutions to the financial services industry are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. 

Financial 

Our products and services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. Certain existing and potential financial institution clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems. In addition, we compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including Computer Services, Inc., DH Corporation, FIS, Infosys Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Jack Henry, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE and Temenos Group AG. 

Government Regulation 

Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision of financial institutions. Also, state and federal regulations require our financial institution clients to include certain provisions in their contracts with service providers like us, such as those related to security and privacy, and to conduct ongoing monitoring and risk management for third party relationships. Because we use the Federal Reserve&#8217;s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we are subject to the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients&#8217; auditors. 

In conducting our direct-to-consumer businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and Popmoney person-to-person payment services, we are directly subject to various federal and state laws, rules and regulations including those relating to the movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with licensing and reporting requirements, to implement operating policies and procedures necessary to comply with anti-money laundering laws, to comply with capital requirements, to protect the privacy and security of our clients&#8217; information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations. 

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act introduced substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including introducing changes that: affect the oversight and supervision of financial institutions; provide for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies; introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements; implement changes to corporate governance and executive compensation practices; and require significant rule-making. The Dodd-Frank Act has generated numerous new regulations that have imposed compliance costs and, in some cases, limited revenue sources for us and our clients. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to &#8220;supervised service providers,&#8221; which the CFPB has defined to include service providers, like us, to CFPB supervised banks and nonbanks. The CFPB has in the past and may in the future issue regulations that may require us to make compliance investments and/or limit our fees or other revenue sources. We do not currently anticipate a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition due to these regulations, but it is difficult to predict with certainty the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. 

Employees 

We have approximately 22,000 employees globally, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, as well as employees with direct experience in payments, financial institutions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance; computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management. 

The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing a potential acquisition candidate, we emphasize the quality and stability of the acquisition candidate&#8217;s employees. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor&#8217;s own internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

