 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

We were incorporated on January 7, 2014 in the State of Nevada. We operate a consulting business whereby we provide personalized relocation services to clients, both individual and corporate, who are relocating to the state of Goa. We assist clients who intend to relocate to the region for temporary, long-term, and permanent periods. We offer a wide range of relocation services to our clients, including arranging and assisting with transportation in the state of Goa, India, household goods movement, appropriate immigration documentation, real estate rental and purchases, children&#146;s&#146; education registration, area orientation, housekeeping, utilities connections, banking introductions, local transportation, tax compliance, and language and cultural training. We have different pricing structures for each of the services we provide.

There have been no material reclassifications, mergers, consolidations or purchases or sales of any significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of business since the date of incorporation. The Company has never been party to any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding, nor has it undergone any material reclassification, merger, consolidation, purchase or sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of business.

Although we are operational, we have not generated consistent revenues and have incurred a cumulative net loss as reflected in the financial statements. We have minimal assets and have incurred losses since inception. 

The Company became a reporting company on September 4, 2014, 2014 after we had filed a prospectus that relates to the offering of a total of 3,000,000 shares of our common stock on a "self-underwritten" basis at a fixed price of $0.015 per share. In December 2014, we completed the sale of 3,000,000 common shares at the price of a $0.015 per share for total proceeds of $45,000. 

Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means that there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business for the next twelve months. This is because we have not generated any revenues and no revenues are anticipated.

Plan of Operation 

About Our Company 

Since our incorporation, we have been engaged in organizational development and website development and its operation. Although we are operational, we have been unable to generate any revenues.

We offer a wide range of services to individual and business clients who intend to relocate to the state of Goa, India. We have focused our marketing efforts on English-speaking people who seek our services to help them relocate and transition to life in Goa. All services that we provide will be charged on a per-service basis. We have an operational website domain, www.baixorelocation.com where we brand our company and inform potential clients of our services. We have used the net proceeds from this offering to develop our business operations and pay for our website design.

Our president, Rosy Rodrigues, who has experience in operating an apartment rental agency and chauffeur referral service, provides potential relocating clients with services related to obtaining housing and transportation services. She will aid clients with education registration, area orientation, bank introductions, housekeeping arrangements, and utilities connections. We intend to outsource other services, such as immigration services to lawyers and tax compliance to accountants. We will charge our clients a flat rate fee for the services that they purchase from us. Our fees for arranging third-party services will be included in the invoices that we render to our clients. In addition, depending on our arrangements with various third-party vendors, we may charge them a separate referral fee for the business that they receive from us.

Our plan of operations over the 12 month period is to generate revenue and enhance our advertising and marketing plan. Our challenge remains to attract customers to our website and to advise them of the range of services that we will offer. 

We plan to achieve the following specific business milestones:

1.

Our president, Rosy Rodrigues, has discussions to formalize contractual relationships with various third-party service providers that are prepared to perform relocation services for our clients on terms acceptable to both parties. Presently we have one party with two apartments interested in our services;

2.

We intend to retain a search engine optimization consultant that will aid us in developing an Internet presence and assure that our website is highly visible to potential clients that search for us;

3.

Ms. Rodrigues will undertake the design and implementation of social media accounts on websites such as Facebook, Google Plus, and Twitter. We anticipate that this process will have negligible cost to us;

So far, our plans have not been successful and we have not generated any revenues and our independent auditor has issued a report on our audited financial statements which expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.

Currently, our President is not compensated and devotes approximately 5% of her business time to the Company&#146;s operations. Ms. Rodrigues is willing to spend more time with the business as it grows and her services are needed. We anticipate that she will be required to spend about 20 hours a week on matters relating to our business when operations commence and we anticipate that then we will compensate her 18,000/- Indian rupees ($300) per month.

Since we became a reporting company, we are responsible for filing various forms with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) such as Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs. The shareholders may read and copy any material filed by us with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.W., Washington, DC, 20549. The shareholders may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information which we have filed electronically with the SEC by assessing the website at the following address: http://www.sec.gov.

Although we have no plans to change our planned business activities or to combine with another business, we may entertain approaches that might cause us to change our plans. 

Emerging Growth Company Status 

Because we generated less than $1 billion in total annual gross revenues during our most recently completed fiscal year, we qualify as an "emerging growth company" under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups ("JOBS") Act.

We will lose our emerging growth company status on the earliest occurrence of any of the following events:

1.

on the last day of any fiscal year in which we earn at least $1 billion in total annual gross revenues, which amount is adjusted for inflation every five years; 

2.

on the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer following the fifth anniversary of the date of our first sale of common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement; 

3.

on the date on which we have, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; or 

4.

the date on which such issuer is deemed to be a `large accelerated filer', as defined in section 240.12b-2 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.

A "large accelerated filer" is an issuer that, at the end of its fiscal year, meets the following conditions:

1.

it has an aggregate worldwide market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by its non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of the issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter; 

2.

It has been subject to the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act for a period of at least twelve calendar months; and 

3.

It has filed at least one annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act.

As an emerging growth company, exemptions from the following provisions are available to us:

1.

Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires auditor attestation of internal controls; 

2.

Section 14A(a) and (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require companies to hold shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation and golden parachute compensation; 

3.

Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act (which has not yet been implemented), which requires companies to disclose the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance of the company; 

4.

Section 953(b)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act (which has not yet been implemented), which requires companies to disclose the ratio between the annual total compensation of the CEO and the median of the annual total compensation of all employees of the companies; and 

5.

The requirement to provide certain other executive compensation disclosure under Item 402 of Regulation S-K. Instead, an emerging growth company must only comply with the more limited provisions of Item 402 applicable to smaller reporting companies, regardless of the issuer's size.

Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, an emerging growth company may choose to forgo such exemption and instead comply with the requirements that apply to an issuer that is not an emerging growth company. We have elected under this section of the JOBS Act to maintain our status as an emerging growth company and take advantage of the JOBS Act provisions relating to complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act.

