 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Company and Subsidiaries 

First Mid-Illinois Bancshares, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a financial holding company. The Company is engaged in the business of banking through its wholly owned subsidiary, First Mid-Illinois Bank &#38; Trust, N.A. (&#8220;First Mid Bank&#8221;). The Company provides data processing services to affiliates through another wholly owned subsidiary, Mid-Illinois Data Services, Inc. (&#8220;MIDS&#8221;). The Company offers insurance products and services to customers through its wholly owned subsidiary, The Checkley Agency, Inc. doing business as First Mid Insurance Group (&#8220;First Mid Insurance&#8221;). The Company also wholly owns two statutory business trusts, First Mid-Illinois Statutory Trust I (&#8220;Trust I&#8221;), and First Mid-Illinois Statutory Trust II (&#8220;Trust II&#8221;), both unconsolidated subsidiaries of the Company. 

The Company, a Delaware corporation, was incorporated on September 8, 1981, and pursuant to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve Board&#8221;) became the holding company owning all of the outstanding stock of First National Bank, Mattoon (&#8220;First National&#8221;) on June 1, 1982. First National changed its name to First Mid-Illinois Bank &#38; Trust, N.A. in 1992. The Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of a number of community banks or thrift institutions on the following dates, and subsequently combined their operations with those of the Company: 

&#8226; 

Mattoon Bank, Mattoon on April 2, 1984 

&#8226; 

State Bank of Sullivan on April 1, 1985 

&#8226; 

Cumberland County National Bank in Neoga on December 31, 1985 

&#8226; 

First National Bank and Trust Company of Douglas County on December 31, 1986 

&#8226; 

Charleston Community Bank on December 30, 1987 

&#8226; 

Heartland Federal Savings and Loan Association on July 1, 1992 

&#8226; 

Downstate Bancshares, Inc. on October 4, 1994 

&#8226; 

American Bank of Illinois on April 20, 2001 

&#8226; 

Peoples State Bank of Mansfield on May 1, 2006 

In 1997, First Mid Bank acquired the Charleston, Illinois branch location and the customer base of First of America Bank and in 1999 acquired the Monticello, Taylorville and DeLand branch offices and deposit base of Bank One Illinois, N.A. 

First Mid Bank also opened a de novo &#32;branch in Decatur, Illinois (2000); de novo &#32;branches in Champaign, Illinois and Maryville, Illinois (2002), a de novo &#32;branch in Highland, Illinois (2005) de novo &#32;branches in Decatur, Illinois and Champaign, Illinois (2009), and a de novo &#32;branch in Decatur, Illinois (2013). 

In 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of First Mid Insurance, an insurance agency located in Mattoon. 

On September 10, 2010, First Mid Bank acquired 10 Illinois branches (the &#8220;Branches&#8221;) from First Bank, a Missouri state chartered bank, located in Bartonville, Bloomington, Galesburg, Knoxville, Peoria and Quincy, Illinois. 

On August 14, 2015 First Mid Bank acquired 12 Illinois branch offices (the "ONB Branches") of Old National Bank in Southern Illinois, a national banking association having its principal office in Evansville, Indiana, located in Lawrenceville, Mt Carmel, Mt Vernon, Carmi, De Soto, Murphysboro, Marion, Harrisburg, Carterville and Carbondale, Illinois. 

On December 1, 2015 FIrst Mid Insurance acquired Illiana Insurance Agency, LTD ("Illiana"), an insurance agency based in Philo, Illinois. 

Employees 

The Company, MIDS, First Mid Insurance and First Mid Bank, collectively, employed 513 &#32;people on a full-time equivalent basis as of December 31, 2015 . The Company places a high priority on staff development, which involves extensive training, including customer service training. New employees are selected on the basis of experience, technical skills and customer service capabilities. None of the employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Company. The Company offers a variety of employee benefits. 

Business Lines 

The Company has chosen to operate in three primary lines of business&#8212;community banking and wealth management through First Mid Bank and insurance brokerage through First Mid Insurance. Of these, the community banking line contributes approximately 91% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s total revenues and profits. Within the community banking line, the Company serves commercial, retail and agricultural customers with a broad array of deposit and loan related products. The wealth management line provides estate planning, investment and farm management services for individuals and employee benefit services for business enterprises. The insurance brokerage line provides commercial lines insurance to businesses as well as homeowner, automobile, health, life and other types of personal lines insurance to individuals. All three lines emphasize a &#8220;hands on&#8221; approach to service so that products and services can be tailored to fit the specific needs of existing and potential customers. Management believes that by emphasizing this personalized approach, the Company can, to a degree, diminish the trend towards homogeneous financial services, thereby differentiating the Company from competitors and allowing for slightly higher operating margins in each of the three lines. 

Business Strategies 

Mission Statement. The Company&#8217;s mission statement is to fulfill the financial needs of our communities with exceptional personal service, professionalism and integrity, and deliver meaningful value and results for customers and shareholders. 

Achieve 2020. Achieve 2020 is a strategic plan that was developed in 2015. This multi-year strategic plan has broad-based initiatives designed to ensure the Company performs at a level with the highest performing community banks in the Midwest and to increase value for its shareholders, customers and employees in the future. The strategic plan was developed by executive management of the Company, modified and adopted by the Board of Directors and communicated to employees. The Achieve 2020 plan was not undertaken as a result of any weaknesses or deficiencies identified during the Company's control assessments but rather as part of the Company's effort to continually assess and improve. Achieve 2020 is comprised of broad strategies that impact growth, customers, employees, and operations and infrastructure, shareholders and risk management. Following is a description of these strategies. 

Growth Strategy. The Company believes that growth of revenues and its customer base is vital to the goal of increasing the value of its shareholders&#8217; investment. The Company strives to create shareholder value by maintaining a strong balance sheet and increasing profits. Management attempts to grow in two primary ways: 

&#183; by organic growth through adding new customers and selling more products and services to existing customers; and 

&#183; by strategic acquisitions. 

Virtually all of the Company&#8217;s customer-contact personnel, in each of its business lines, are engaged in organic growth efforts to one degree or another. These personnel attempt to match products and services with the particular financial needs of individual customers and prospective customers. Many senior officers of the organization are required to attend monthly meetings where they report on their business development efforts and results. Executive management uses these meetings as an educational and risk management opportunity as well. Cross-selling opportunities are encouraged and measured between the business lines and is facilitated by an on-line application. 

Within the community banking line, the Company has focused on growing business operating and real estate loans. Total commercial real estate loans have increased from $321 million &#32;at December 31, 2011 &#32;to $409 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 . Approximately 62% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s total revenues were derived from lending activities in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 . The Company has also focused on growing its commercial and retail deposit base through growth in checking, money markets and customer repurchase agreement balances. The wealth management line has focused its growth efforts on estate planning, and investment services for individuals and employee benefit services for businesses. The insurance brokerage line has focused on increasing property and casualty and group medical insurance for businesses and personal lines insurance to individuals. 

Growth through acquisitions has been an integral part of the Company&#8217;s strategy for an extended period of time. When reviewing acquisition possibilities, the Company focuses on those organizations where there is a cultural fit with its existing operations and where there is a strong likelihood of building shareholder value. Most past acquisitions have been cash-based transactions. The Company would also consider a stock-based acquisition if the strategic and financial metrics were compelling. 

Customer Strategy. The Company uses its market and customer knowledge to build relationships that provide high-value customer experiences that continually improve customer satisfaction and loyalty. 

Employee Strategy . The Company strives for employee engagement at all levels of the organization. The judgments, experiences and capabilities of these employees are used to create an environment where meeting the needs of our customer, communities and stockholders is always a priority. 

Strategy for Operations &#38; Infrastructure. &#32; Operationally, the Company centralizes most administrative and operational tasks within its home office in Mattoon, Illinois. This allows branches to maintain customer focus, helps assure compliance with banking regulations, keeps fixed administrative costs at as low a level as practicable, and allows for better management of risk inherent in the business. The Company also utilizes technology where practicable in daily banking activities to reduce the potential for human error. While the Company does not employ every new technology that is introduced, it attempts to be competitive with other banking organizations with respect to operational and customer technology. 

Shareholder Strategy. The Company strives to provide a competitive dividend as well as the opportunity for stock price appreciation. 

Risk Management Strategy. The Company maintains a comprehensive risk management framework. The Company has initiated an Enterprise Risk Management (&#8220;ERM&#8221;) process whereby management assesses the relevant risks inherent in the business, determines internal controls and procedures are in place to address the various risks, develops a structure for monitoring and reporting risk indicators and trends over time, and incorporates action plans to manage risk positions. The ERM process was not undertaken as a result of any weaknesses or deficiencies identified during the Company&#8217;s control assessments but rather is part of the Company&#8217;s effort to continually assess and improve by taking a more holistic approach to risk management. The Company's Chief Risk Management Officer is responsible for facilitating the ERM process. The Company utilizes a comprehensive set of operational policies and procedures that have been developed over time. These policies are continually reviewed by management, the Chief Risk Management Officer, and the Board of Directors. The Company&#8217;s internal audit function completes procedures to ensure compliance with these policies. While there are several risks that pertain to the business of banking, three risks that are inherent with most banking companies are credit risk, interest rate risk, and liquidity risk. 

In the business of banking, credit risk is an important risk as losses from uncollectible loans can diminish capital, earnings and shareholder value. In order to address this risk, the lending function of First Mid Bank receives significant oversight from executive management and the Board of Directors. An important element of credit risk management is the quality, experience and training of the loan officers of First Mid Bank. The Company has invested, and will continue to invest, significant resources to ensure the quality, experience and training of First Mid Bank&#8217;s loan officers in order to keep credit losses at a minimum. In addition to the human element of credit risk management, the Company&#8217;s loan policies address the additional aspects of credit risk. Most lending personnel have signature authority that allows them to lend up to a certain amount based on their own judgment as to the creditworthiness of a borrower. The amount of the signature authority is based on the lending officers&#8217; experience and training. The Senior Loan Committee, consisting of the most experienced lenders within the organization, must approve all underwriting decisions in excess of $4 million &#32;and up to $15 million . The full Board of Directors must approve all underwriting decisions in excess of $15 million . While the underlying nature of lending will result in some amount of loan losses, First Mid Bank&#8217;s loan loss experience has been good with average net charge offs amounting to $1.4 million &#32;( 0.15% &#32;of total loans) over the past five years. Nonperforming loans were $4.0 million &#32;( 0.31% &#32;of total loans) at December 31, 2015 . These percentages have historically compared well with peer financial institutions and continue to do so today. 

Interest rate and liquidity risk are two other forms of risk embedded in the banking business. The Company&#8217;s Asset Liability Management Committee, consisting of experienced individuals, from various departments, who monitor all aspects of interest rates and maturities of interest earning assets and interest paying liabilities, manages these risks. The underlying objectives of interest rate and liquidity risk management are to shelter the Company&#8217;s net interest margin from changes in interest rates while maintaining adequate liquidity reserves to meet unanticipated funding demands. The Company uses financial modeling technology as a tool for evaluating these risks. Despite the tools and methods used to monitor this risk, a sustained unfavorable interest rate environment will lead to some amount of compression in the net interest margin. During 2015 , the Company&#8217;s net interest margin decreased &#32;to 3.27% &#32;from 3.43% &#32;in 2014 &#32;primarily due to the additional cash received from the ONB acquisition that increased lower yielding interest-bearing balances at banks. 

Markets and Competition 

The Company has active competition in all areas in which First Mid Bank does business. First Mid Bank competes for commercial and individual deposits, loans, and trust business with many east central Illinois banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions. The principal methods of competition in the banking and financial services industry are quality of services to customers, ease of access to facilities, on-line services and pricing of services, including interest rates paid on deposits, interest rates charged on loans, and fees charged for fiduciary and other banking services. 

During 2015, First Mid Bank operated facilities in the Illinois counties of Adams, Champaign, Christian, Coles, Cumberland, Dewitt, Douglas, Effingham, Jackson, Jefferson, Knox, Lawrence, Macon, Madison, Moultrie, Peoria, Piatt, Saline, Wabash, White and Williamson. Each facility primarily serves the community in which it is located. First Mid Bank served thirty-three different communities with forty-six separate locations in Illinois. Within the areas of service, there are numerous competing financial institutions and financial services companies. 

Website 

The Company maintains a website at www.firstmid.com . All periodic and current reports of the Company and amendments to these reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) can be accessed, free of charge, through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with the SEC. 

Rights Agreement 

On January 21, 2015, the Company entered into an Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement"), dated as of September 22, 2009, by and between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent. This amendment accelerated the expiration of the Company's common stock purchase rights (the &#8220;Rights&#8221;) from 5:00 p.m., Mattoon, Illinois time, on September 22, 2019, to 5:00 p.m., Mattoon, Illinois time, on January 21, 2015, and had the effect of terminating the Rights Agreement on that date. At the time of the termination of the Rights Agreement, all of the Rights distributed to holders of the Company's common stock pursuant to the Rights Agreement expired. 

Branch Purchase and Assumption 

On January 30, 2015, First Mid Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Purchase and Assumption Agreement (the &#8220;Purchase Agreement&#8221;) with Old National Bank, a national banking association having its principal office in Evansville, Indiana, pursuant to which First Mid Bank purchased certain assets and assume certain liabilities of 12 branch offices of Old National Bank in Southern Illinois (the &#8220;ONB Branches&#8221;). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, First Mid Bank agreed to assume certain deposit liabilities and to acquire certain loans, as well as cash, real property, furniture, and other fixed operating assets associated with the ONB Branches. The book value of loan and deposit balances assumed was approximately $156 million and $453 million, respectively. First Mid Bank also agreed to assume certain leases, and entered into certain subleases, relating to the ONB Branches. The completion of the Purchase was subject to regulatory approval required by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and normal customary closing conditions, including First Mid Bank, in conjunction with the Company, obtaining financing in connection with the acquisition. Following satisfaction of these conditions, First Mid Bank and Old National Bank closed the acquisition on August 14, 2015. 

Capital Raise 

On June 18, 2015, the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement with a limited number of institutional investors to sell, and accepted from certain other accredited investors, including certain directors of the Company, subscriptions for, an aggregate total of 1,392,859 newly issued shares of the Company's common stock at a purchase price of $21.00 per share, for an aggregate gross purchase price of approximately $29,250,039 (the "Offering"). The Offering closed on June 19, 2015. The Company used the net proceeds of the Offering to provide capital support for the purchase of the ONB Branches and for general corporate purposes. 

Acquisition of Illiana 

On December 1, 2015, First Mid Insurance Group, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired substantially all of the assets of Illiana, a health plan and life insurance and annuities business. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

General 

Financial institutions, financial services companies, and their holding companies are extensively regulated under federal and state law. As a result, the growth and earnings performance of the Company can be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of applicable state and federal statutes and regulations and the policies of various governmental regulatory authorities including, but not limited to, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;), the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;), the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities. Any change in applicable laws, regulations or regulatory policies may have material effects on the business, operations and prospects of the Company and First Mid Bank. The Company is unable to predict the nature or extent of the effects that fiscal or monetary policies, economic controls or new federal or state legislation may have on its business and earnings in the future. 

Federal and state laws and regulations generally applicable to financial institutions and financial services companies, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, regulate, among other things, the scope of business, investments, reserves against deposits, capital levels relative to operations, the nature and amount of collateral for loans, the establishment of branches, mergers, consolidations and dividends. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries establishes a comprehensive framework for their respective operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance fund and the depositors, rather than the stockholders, of financial institutions. 

The following references to material statutes and regulations affecting the Company and its subsidiaries are brief summaries thereof and do not purport to be complete, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such statutes and regulations. Any change in applicable law or regulations may have a material effect on the business of the Company and its subsidiaries. 

Financial Modernization Legislation 

The 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the &#8220;GLB Act&#8221;) significantly changed financial services regulation by expanding permissible non-banking activities of bank holding companies and removing certain barriers to affiliations among banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial services entities. These activities and affiliations can be structured through a holding company structure or, in the case of many of the activities, through a financial subsidiary of a bank. The GLB Act also established a system of federal and state regulation based on functional regulation, meaning that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally resides with the federal or state regulator having the greatest expertise in the area. Banking is supervised by banking regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators and securities activities by the SEC and state securities regulators. The GLB Act also requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the Community Reinvestment Act, and contains various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry. 

The GLB Act repealed the anti-affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act and revises the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;) to permit qualifying holding companies, called &#8220;financial holding companies,&#8221; to engage in, or to affiliate with companies engaged in, a full range of financial activities, including banking, insurance activities (including insurance portfolio investing), securities activities, merchant banking and additional activities that are &#8220;financial in nature,&#8221; incidental to financial activities or, in certain circumstances, complementary to financial activities. A bank holding company&#8217;s subsidiary banks must be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed&#8221; and have at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; Community Reinvestment Act rating for the bank holding company to elect and maintain its status as a financial holding company. 

A significant component of the GLB Act&#8217;s focus on functional regulation relates to the application of federal securities laws and SEC oversight of some bank securities activities previously exempt from broker-dealer registration. Among other things, the GLB Act amended the definitions of &#8220;broker&#8221; and &#8220;dealer&#8221; under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to remove the blanket exemption for banks. Under the GLB Act, banks may conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally considered to be primarily banking or trust activities. 

Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by registered broker-dealer affiliate. The GLB Act also amended the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to require the registration of banks that act as investment advisers for mutual funds. The Company believes that it has taken the necessary actions to comply with these requirements of the GLB Act and the regulations adopted under them. 

Anti-Terrorism Legislation 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 included the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001 (the &#8220;IMLAFA&#8221;). The IMLAFA contains anti-money laundering measures affecting insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions. The IMLAFA requires U.S. financial institutions to adopt policies and procedures to combat money laundering and grants the Secretary of the Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions&#8217; operations. The Company has established policies and procedures for compliance with the IMLAFA and the related regulations. The Company has designated an officer solely responsible for ensuring compliance with existing regulations and monitoring changes to the regulations as they occur. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Generally, the Act is effective the day after it was signed into law, but different effective dates apply to specific sections of the law. The Company will continue to evaluate the affects of these changes. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Act, among other things: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Resulted in the Federal Reserve issuing rules limiting debit-card interchange fees. 

&#8226; 

After a three-year phase-in period which began January 1, 2013, existing trust preferred securities for holding companies with consolidated assets greater than $15 billion and all new issuances of trust preferred securities are removed as a permitted component of a holding company&#8217;s Tier 1 capital. Trust preferred securities outstanding as of May 19, 2010 that were issued by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion, such as First Mid, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital. 

&#8226; 

Provides for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% (however, the FDIC is to offset the effect of this increase for holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, such as First Mid) and changes in the basis for determining FDIC premiums from deposits to assets. 

&#8226; 

Creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that will have rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and certain non-bank financial institutions and would have broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. 

&#8226; 

Provides for new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance. 

&#8226; 

Changes standards for Federal preemption of state laws related to federally chartered institutions and their subsidiaries. 

&#8226; 

Provides mortgage reform provisions including (i) a customer&#8217;s ability to repay, (ii) restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by requiring lenders to evaluate using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and (iii) making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans and new disclosures. 

&#8226; 

Creates a financial stability oversight council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. 

&#8226; 

Permanently increases the deposit insurance coverage to $250 thousand and allows depository institutions to pay interest on checking accounts. 

&#8226; 

Requires publicly-traded bank holding companies with assets of $10 billion or more to establish a risk committee responsible for enterprise-wide risk management practices. 

&#8226; 

Limits and regulates, under the provisions of the Act know as the Volker Rule, a financial institution's ability to engage in proprietary trading or to own or invest in certain private equity and hedge funds. 

Basel III 

&#32; In September 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed higher global minimum capital standards, including a minimum Tier 1 common capital ratio and additional capital and liquidity requirements. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final rule to implement these reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. This final rule was subsequently adopted by the OCC and the FDIC. 

As included in the proposed rule of June 2012, the final rule included new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which are being phased in from 2015 to 2019, and refined the definition of what constitutes &#8220;capital&#8221; for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and First Mid Bank beginning in 2015 were: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The rule also established a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements, which must consist entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. 

The final rule also made three changes to the proposed rule of June 2012 that impacted the Company. First, the proposed rule required banking organizations to include accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) in common equity tier 1 capital. AOCI includes accumulated unrealized gains and losses on certain assets and liabilities that have not been included in net income. Under existing general risk-based capital rules, most components of AOCI are not included in a banking organization's regulatory capital calculations. The final rule allowed community banking organizations to make a one-time election not to include these additional components of AOCI in regulatory capital and instead use the existing treatment under the general risk-based capital rules that excludes most AOCI components from regulatory capital. The Company has made this election 

Second, the proposed rule modified the risk-weight framework applicable to residential mortgage exposures to require banking organizations to divide residential mortgage exposure into two categories in order to determine the applicable risk weight. The final rule, however, retained the existing treatment for residential mortgage exposures under the general risk-based capital rules. 

Third, the proposed rule required banking organizations with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009, such as the Company, to phase out over ten years any trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred securities from its Tier 1 capital regulatory capital. The final rule, however, permanently grandfathers into Tier 1 capital of depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 any trust preferred securities or cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010. 

The Company 

General. As a registered bank holding company under the BHCA that has elected to become a financial holding company under the GLB Act, the Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. In accordance with Federal Reserve Board policy, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to First Mid Bank and to commit resources to support First Mid Bank in circumstances where the Company might not do so absent such policy. The Company is subject to inspection, examination, and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. 

Activities . As a financial holding company, the Company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. A bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and such other activities as determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

No Federal Reserve Board approval is required for the Company to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank, or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board. However, the Company generally must give the Federal Reserve Board after-the-fact notice of these activities. Prior Federal Reserve Board approval is required before the Company may acquire beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank, or savings association. 

If any subsidiary bank of the Company ceases to be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed&#8221; under applicable regulatory standards, the Federal Reserve Board may, among other actions, order the Company to divest its depository institution. Alternatively, the Company may elect to conform its activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company. 

If any subsidiary bank of the Company receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of less than &#8220;satisfactory&#8221;, the Company will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; or better, from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks, or savings associations. 

Capital Requirements. Bank holding companies are required to maintain minimum levels of capital in accordance with Federal Reserve Board capital adequacy guidelines. The Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s capital guidelines establish the following minimum regulatory capital requirements for bank holding companies: a risk-based requirement expressed as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets, and a leverage requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets. The risk-based requirement consists of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8%, at least one-half of which must be Tier 1 capital. The leverage requirement consists of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4%. For purposes of these capital standards, Tier 1 capital consists primarily of permanent stockholders&#8217; equity, which includes the Series C Preferred Stock issued by the Company in 2011, less intangible assets (other than certain mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships), and total capital means Tier 1 capital plus certain other debt and equity instruments which do not qualify as Tier 1 capital, limited amounts of unrealized gains on equity securities and a portion of the Company&#8217;s allowance for loan and lease losses. 

The risk-based and leverage standards described above are minimum requirements, and higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. For example, the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s capital guidelines contemplate that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk, or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions (i.e., Tier 1 capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had regulatory capital, calculated on a consolidated basis, in excess of the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s minimum requirements, and its capital ratios exceeded those required for categorization as well-capitalized under the capital adequacy guidelines established by bank regulatory agencies with a total risk-based capital ratio of 14.25% , a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 13.23% &#32;and a leverage ratio of 9.20% . 

Control Acquisitions. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of person from acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve Board has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve Board, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, such as the Company, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the Company. 

In addition, any company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the BHCA before acquiring 25% (5% in the case of an acquirer that is a bank holding company) or more of the outstanding common of the Company, or otherwise obtaining control of a &#8220;controlling influence&#8221; over the Company or First Mid Bank. 

Interstate Banking and Branching . The Dodd-Frank Act expands the authority of banks to engage in interstate branching. The Dodd-Frank Act allows a state or national bank to open a de novo branch in another state if the law of the state where the branch is to be located would permit a state bank chartered by that state to open the branch. 

Privacy and Security. The GLB Act establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring banks to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain rules with respect to the disclosure to third parties of consumer information. The Company has adopted and disseminated its privacy policies pursuant to the GLB Act. Regulations adopted under the GLB Act set standards for protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of customer information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to customers, in the event of security breaches. A number of states have adopted their own statutes requiring notification of security breaches. In addition, the GLB Act requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the CRA, and contains various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry. 

First Mid Bank 

General. First Mid Bank is a national bank, chartered under the National Bank Act. The FDIC insures the deposit accounts of First Mid Bank. As a national bank, First Mid Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the OCC, as the primary federal regulator of national banks, and the FDIC, as administrator of the deposit insurance fund. 

Deposit Insurance . As an FDIC-insured institution, First Mid Bank is required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. On July 21, 2010, The Dodd-Frank Act permanently raised the standard maximum deposit insurance amount from $100,000 to $250,000. On November 9, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule to implement Section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage for &#8220;noninterest-bearing transaction accounts&#8221; from December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012. Also, the FDIC will no longer charge a separate assessment for the insurance of these accounts under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule setting initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009, at 12 to 45 basis points and, due to extraordinary circumstances, extended the period of the restoration plan to increase the deposit insurance fund to seven years. Also on February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued final rules on changes to the risk-based assessment system which imposes rates based on an institution&#8217;s risk to the deposit insurance fund. The rates increased the range of annual risk based assessment rates from 5 to 7 basis points to 7 to 24 basis points. The final rules both increase base assessment rates and incorporate additional assessments for excess reliance on brokered deposits and FHLB advances. This new assessment took effect April 1, 2009. The Company expensed $809,000 , $717,000 &#32;and $743,000 &#32;for this assessment during 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. The increase in this assessment was primarily due to an increase in quarterly average assets. 

In addition to its insurance assessment, each insured bank was subject to quarterly debt service assessments in connection with bonds issued by a government corporation that financed the federal savings and loan bailout. The Company expensed $95,000 , $87,000 &#32;and $89,000 &#32;during 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, for this assessment. 

OCC Assessments. All national banks are required to pay supervisory fees to the OCC to fund the operations of the OCC. The amount of such supervisory fees is based upon each institution&#8217;s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, as reported to the OCC. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 &#32;First Mid Bank paid supervisory fees to the OCC totaling $352,000 , $342,000 , and $333,000 , respectively. 

Capital Requirements. The OCC has established the following minimum capital standards for national banks, such as First Mid Bank: a leverage requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4%, and a risk-based capital requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8%, at least one-half of which must be Tier 1 capital. For purposes of these capital standards, Tier 1 capital and total capital consists of substantially the same components as Tier 1 capital and total capital under the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s capital guidelines for bank holding companies (See &#8220;The Company&#8212;Capital Requirements&#8221;). 

The capital requirements described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual institutions. For example, the regulations of the OCC provide that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , First Mid Bank was not required by the OCC to increase its capital to an amount in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements, and its capital ratios exceeded those required for categorization as well-capitalized under the capital adequacy guidelines established by bank regulatory agencies with a total risk-based capital ratio of 13.75% , a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 12.73% &#32;and a leverage ratio of 8.83% . 

Prompt Corrective Action. &#32;Federal law provides the federal banking regulators with broad power to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The extent of the regulators&#8217; powers depends on whether the institution in question is &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Depending upon the capital category to which an institution is assigned, the regulators&#8217; corrective powers include: requiring the submission of a capital restoration plan; placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities; requiring the institution to issue additional capital stock (including additional voting stock) or to be acquired; restricting transactions with affiliates; restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; ordering a new election of directors of the institution; requiring that senior executive officers or directors be dismissed; prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; requiring the institution to divest certain subsidiaries; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; and in the most severe cases, appointing a conservator or receiver for the institution. 

Dividends. The National Bank Act imposes limitations on the amount of dividends that may be paid by a national bank, such as First Mid Bank. Generally, a national bank may pay dividends out of its undivided profits, in such amounts and at such times as the bank&#8217;s board of directors deems prudent. Without prior OCC approval, however, a national bank may not pay dividends in any calendar year which, in the aggregate, exceed the bank&#8217;s year-to-date net income plus the bank&#8217;s adjusted retained net income for the two preceding years. 

The payment of dividends by any financial institution or its holding company is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and a financial institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, First Mid Bank exceeded its minimum capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2015 . As of December 31, 2015 , approximately $35.2 million &#32;was available to be paid as dividends to the Company by First Mid Bank. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the OCC may prohibit the payment of any dividends by First Mid Bank if the OCC determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Affiliate and Insider Transactions. First Mid Bank is subject to certain restrictions under federal law, including Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Board, on extensions of credit to the Company and its subsidiaries, on investments in the stock or other securities of the Company and its subsidiaries and the acceptance of the stock or other securities of the Company or its subsidiaries as collateral for loans. Certain limitations and reporting requirements are also placed on extensions of credit by First Mid Bank to its directors and officers, to directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, to principal stockholders of the Company, and to &#8220;related interests&#8221; of such directors, officers and principal stockholders. 

First Mid Bank is subject to restrictions under federal law that limits certain transactions with the Company, including loans, other extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases. Such transactions by a banking subsidiary with any one affiliate are limited in amount to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital and surplus and, with all affiliates together, to an aggregate of 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and extensions of credit, as well as certain other transactions, are required to be secured in specified amounts. These and certain other transactions, including any payment of money to the Company, must be on terms and conditions that are or in good faith would be offered to nonaffiliated companies. 

In addition, federal law and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person becoming a director or officer of the Company or one of its subsidiaries or a principal stockholder of the Company may obtain credit from banks with which First Mid Bank maintains a correspondent relationship. 

Safety and Soundness Standards. The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safety and soundness of federally insured depository institutions. The guidelines set forth standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality and earnings. In general, the guidelines prescribe the goals to be achieved in each area, and each institution is responsible for establishing its own procedures to achieve those goals. If an institution fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in the guidelines, the institution&#8217;s primary federal regulator may require the institution to submit a plan for achieving and maintaining compliance. The preamble to the guidelines states that the agencies expect to require a compliance plan from an institution whose failure to meet one or more of the guidelines are of such severity that it could threaten the safety and soundness of the institution. Failure to submit an acceptable plan, or failure to comply with a plan that has been accepted by the appropriate federal regulator, would constitute grounds for further enforcement action. 

Community Reinvestment Act. First Mid Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank&#8217;s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 requires federal banking agencies to make public a rating of a bank&#8217;s performance under the CRA. In the case of a bank holding company, the CRA performance record of its bank subsidiaries is reviewed by federal banking agencies in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or thrift or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially delay or block the transaction. First Mid Bank received a satisfactory CRA rating from its regulator in its most recent CRA examination. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations. In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above, First Mid Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans to or marketing to or engaging in other types of transactions with such customers. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. 

Supplemental Item &#8211; Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The executive officers of the Company are elected annually by the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors and are identified below. 

Name (Age) 

Position With Company 

Joseph R. Dively (56) 

Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Michael L. Taylor (47) 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

John W. Hedges (67) 

Senior Executive Vice President 

Laurel G. Allenbaugh (55) 

Executive Vice President 

Eric S. McRae (50) 

Executive Vice President 

Bradley L. Beesley (44) 

Executive Vice President 

Christopher L. Slabach (53) 

Senior Vice President 

Clay M. Dean (41) 

Senior Vice President 

Amanda D. Lewis (36) 

Senior Vice President 

Joseph R. Dively, age 56, is the Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 1, 2014 and the President of First Mid Bank since May 2011. Prior to assuming these positions in the Company, he was the Senior Executive Vice President of the Company beginning in May 2011. He was with Consolidated Communications Holdings, Inc. in Mattoon, Illinois from 2003 to May 2011. 

Michael L. Taylor, age 47, has been Senior Executive Vice President since 2014 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 2000. He served as Executive Vice President from from 2007 to 2014 and as Vice President from 2000 to 2007. He was with AMCORE Bank in Rockford, Illinois from 1996 to 2000. 

John W. Hedges, age 67, has been Senior Executive Vice President of the Company and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of First Mid Bank since May 2011. He served as President of First Mid Bank from September 1999 to May 2011. He was with National City Bank in Decatur, Illinois from 1976 to 1999. 

Laurel G. Allenbaugh, age 55, has been Executive Vice President of the Company and Executive Vice President, Chief Operations &#38; IT Officer of First Mid Bank since April 2008. She served as Vice President of Operations from February 2000 to April 2008. She served as Controller of the Company and First Mid Bank from 1990 to February 2000 and has been President of MIDS since 1998. 

Eric S. McRae, age 50, has been Executive Vice President of the Company and Executive Vice President, Senior Lender of First Mid Bank since December 2008. He served as President of the Decatur region from 2001 to December 2008. 

Bradley L. Beesley, age 44, has been Executive Vice President of the Company and Chief Trust &#38; Wealth Management Officer of First Mid Bank since March 2015. He served as Senior Vice President from May 2007 to March 2015. 

Christopher L. Slabach, age 53, has been Senior Vice President of the Company since 2007 and Senior Vice President, Chief Risk Officer of First Mid Bank since 2008. He served as Vice President, Audit of the Company from 1998 to 2007. 

Clay M. Dean, age 41, has been Senior Vice President of the Company since 2010 and Senior Vice President and Chief Insurance Services Officer of the First Mid Bank and Chief Executive Officer of First Mid Insurance since September 2014. He served as Senior Vice President, Chief Deposit Services Officer of First Mid Bank from November 2012 to September 2014 and as Senior Vice President, Director of Treasury Management of First Mid Bank from 2010 to 2012. 

Amanda D. Lewis, age 36, has been Senior Vice President of the Company and Senior Vice President, Chief Deposit Services Officer of First Mid Bank since September 2014. She served as Vice President, Director of Marketing from 2001 until September 2014. 

