 Item 1.

Business

General Development of the Business

August 1, 1916, marked the first day of business for Farmers &#38; Merchants Bank. The Bank was incorporated under the laws of the State of California and licensed as a state-chartered bank. Farmers &#38; Merchants&#8217; first venture out of Lodi occurred when the Galt office opened in 1948. Since then the Bank has opened full-service branches in Linden, Modesto, Sacramento, Elk Grove, Turlock, Hilmar, Stockton, Merced, Walnut Creek and Concord.

In addition to 24 full-service branches, the Bank serves the needs of its customers through a stand-alone ATM located on the grounds of the Lodi Grape Festival. In 2007, the Bank began offering certain products over the internet at www.fmbonline.com .

During 2015, the Bank completed construction and relocated our South Sacramento and Modesto Crossroads branches to new facilities. Additionally, as part of our expansion into the Easy Bay area of San Francisco, the Bank completed construction on a new branch location in Concord, which opened in the first half of 2015.

On March 10, 1999, the Company, pursuant to a reorganization, acquired all of the voting stock of Farmers &#38; Merchants Bank of Central California (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). The Company is a bank holding company incorporated in the State of Delaware and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company&#8217;s outstanding securities as of December 31, 2015, consisted of 790,787 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value and no shares of preferred stock issued. The Bank is the Company&#8217;s principal asset.

The Bank&#8217;s two wholly owned subsidiaries are Farmers &#38; Merchants Investment Corporation and Farmers/Merchants Corp. Farmers &#38; Merchants Investment Corporation is currently dormant and Farmers/Merchants Corp. acts as trustee on deeds of trust originated by the Bank.

F &#38; M Bancorp, Inc. was created in March 2002 to protect the name &#8220;F &#38; M Bank.&#8221; During 2002, the Company completed a fictitious name filing in California to begin using the streamlined name, &#8220;F &#38; M Bank,&#8221; as part of a larger effort to enhance the Company&#8217;s image and build brand name recognition. Since 2002, the Company has converted all of its daily operating and image advertising to the &#8220;F &#38; M Bank&#8221; name and the Company&#8217;s logo, slogan and signage were redesigned to incorporate the trade name, &#8220;F &#38; M Bank.&#8221;

&#160;

During 2003, the Company formed a wholly owned Connecticut statutory business trust, FMCB Statutory Trust I, for the sole purpose of issuing trust-preferred securities. See Note 13, located in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221;

The Company&#8217;s principal business is to serve as a holding company for the Bank and for other banking or banking related subsidiaries, which the Company may establish or acquire. As a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary, the Company&#8217;s principal source of funds is, and will continue to be, dividends paid by and other funds from the Bank. Legal limitations are imposed on the amount of dividends that may be paid and loans that may be made by the Bank to the Company. See &#8220;Supervision and Regulation - Dividends and Other Transfer of Funds.&#8221;

The Bank&#8217;s deposit accounts are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act up to applicable limits. See &#8220;Supervision and Regulation &#8211; Deposit Insurance.&#8221;

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;). The Bank is a California state-chartered non-FRB member bank subject to the regulation and examination of the California Department of Business Oversight (&#8220;DBO&#8221;) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;).

Service Area

During 2015, the Company continued its efforts to broaden its geographic footprint by opening an additional branch in Concord, an area contiguous to Walnut Creek. The Company continues to look for opportunities to further expand its branch network in the East Bay area of San Francisco.

At the present time, the Company&#8217;s primary service area remains the mid Central Valley of California, including Sacramento, San Joaquin, Stanislaus and Merced counties, where we operate 21 full-service branches and one stand-alone ATM. This area encompasses:

&#183; Sacramento Metropolitan Statistical Area (&#8220;MSA&#8221;), with branches in Sacramento, Elk Grove and Galt. This MSA has a Population of 2.31 million and a Per Capita Income of approximately $50,000. The MSA includes significant employment in the following sectors: state and local government; agriculture; and trade, transportation and utilities. Unemployment currently stands at 5.3%. 

&#183; Stockton MSA, with branches in Lodi, Linden and Stockton. This MSA has a Population of 0.74 million and a Per Capita Income of approximately $38,700. The MSA includes significant employment in the following sectors: state and local government; agriculture; trade, transportation, and utilities; and education and health services. Unemployment currently stands at 8.1%. 

&#183; Modesto MSA, with branches in Modesto and Turlock. This MSA has a Population of 0.55 million and a Per Capita Income of approximately $39,100. The MSA includes significant employment in the following sectors: agriculture; trade, transportation and utilities; state and local government; and education and health services. Unemployment currently stands at 8.7%. 

&#183; Merced MSA with branches in Hilmar and Merced. This MSA has a Population of 0.30 million and a Per Capita Income of approximately $35,800. The MSA includes significant employment in the following sectors: agriculture; state and local government; and trade, transportation and utilities. Unemployment currently stands at 10.5%. 

All of the Company&#8217;s Central Valley service areas are heavily influenced by the agricultural industry, however, with the exception of the State of California in the Sacramento MSA, no single employer represents a material concentration of jobs in any of our service areas.

&#160;

See &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Overview&#8221; and &#8220;Financial Condition &#8211; Loans &#38; Leases&#8221; for additional discussion regarding the Company&#8217;s market conditions.

Through its network of banking offices, the Company emphasizes personalized service along with a broad range of banking services to businesses and individuals located in the service areas of its offices. Although the Company focuses on marketing its services to small and medium sized businesses, a broad range of retail banking services are made available to the local consumer market.

The Company offers a wide range of deposit instruments. These include checking, savings, money market, time certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts and online banking services for both business and personal accounts.

The Company provides a broad complement of lending products, including commercial, real estate construction, agribusiness, consumer, credit card, real estate loans, and equipment leases. Commercial products include term loans, leases, lines of credit and other working capital financing and letters of credit. Financing products for individuals include automobile financing, lines of credit, residential real estate, home improvement and home equity lines of credit.

The Company also offers a wide range of specialized services designed for the needs of its commercial accounts. These services include a credit card program for merchants, lockbox and other collection services, account reconciliation, investment sweep, on-line account access, and electronic funds transfers by way of domestic and international wire and automated clearinghouse.

The Company makes investment products available to customers, including mutual funds and annuities. These investment products are offered through a third party, which employs investment advisors to meet with and provide investment advice to the Company&#8217;s customers.

Employees

At December 31, 2015, the Company employed 316 full time equivalent employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.

Competition

The banking and financial services industry in California generally, and in the Company&#8217;s market areas specifically, is highly competitive. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. The Company competes with other major commercial banks, diversified financial institutions, credit unions, savings and loan associations, money market and other mutual funds, mortgage companies, and a variety of other non-banking financial services and advisory companies. Federal legislation encourages competition between different types of financial service providers and has fostered new entrants into the financial services market. It is anticipated that this trend will continue. Using the financial holding company structure, insurance companies and securities firms may compete more directly with banks and bank holding companies.

Many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader range of financial services than the Company. In order to compete with other financial service providers, the Company relies upon personal contact by its officers, directors, employees, and stockholders, along with various promotional activities and specialized services. In those instances where the Company is unable to accommodate a customer&#8217;s needs, the Company may arrange for those services to be provided through its correspondents.

Government Policies

The Company&#8217;s profitability, like most financial institutions, is primarily dependent on interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates paid by the Company on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates received by the Company on its interest-earning assets, such as loans &#38; leases extended to its customers and securities held in its investment portfolio, comprise the major portion of the Company&#8217;s earnings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of the Company and the Bank, such as inflation, recession and unemployment. The impact that changes in economic conditions might have on the Company and the Bank cannot be predicted.

&#160;

The business of the Company is also influenced by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies, particularly the FRB. The FRB implements national monetary policies (with objectives such as curbing inflation and combating recession) through its open-market operations in U.S. Government securities by adjusting the required level of reserves for depository institutions subject to its reserve requirements, and by varying the target federal funds and discount rates applicable to borrowings by depository institutions. The actions of the FRB in these areas influence the growth of bank loans &#38; leases, investments, and deposits and also affect interest rates earned on interest-earning assets and paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The nature and impact on the Company of any future changes in monetary and fiscal policies cannot be predicted.

From time to time, legislative acts, as well as regulations, are enacted which have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks, bank holding companies, and other financial institutions and financial services providers are frequently made in the U.S. Congress, in the state legislatures, and before various regulatory agencies. This legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company and the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implemented regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Supervision and Regulation

General

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. The regulation is intended primarily for the protection of the banking system and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of stockholders of the Company. Set forth below is a summary description of the material laws and regulations, which relate to the operations of the Company and the Bank. This description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations.

The Company

The Company is a registered bank holding company and is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;), as amended. Accordingly, the Company&#8217;s operations are subject to extensive regulation and examination by the FRB. The Company is required to file with the FRB quarterly and annual reports and such additional information as the FRB may require pursuant to the BHCA. The FRB conducts periodic examinations of the Company.

The FRB may require that the Company terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries of affiliates when the FRB believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any of its banking subsidiaries. The FRB also has the authority to regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt. Under certain circumstances, the Company must file written notice and obtain approval from the FRB prior to purchasing or redeeming its equity securities.

Under the BHCA and regulations adopted by the FRB, a bank holding company and its non-banking subsidiaries are prohibited from requiring certain tie-in arrangements in connection with an extension of credit, lease or sale of property, or furnishing of services. For example, with certain exceptions, a bank may not condition an extension of credit on a promise by its customer to obtain other services provided by it, its holding company or other subsidiaries, or on a promise by its customer not to obtain other services from a competitor. In addition, federal law imposes certain restrictions on transactions between Farmers &#38; Merchants Bancorp and its subsidiaries. Further, the Company is required by the FRB to maintain certain levels of capital. See &#8220;Capital Standards.&#8221;

&#160;

The Company is prohibited by the BHCA, except in certain statutorily prescribed instances, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, the Company, subject to the prior notice and/or approval of the FRB, may engage in any, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities that are deemed by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.

Under FRB regulations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. In addition, it is the FRB&#8217;s policy that in serving as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks, a bank holding company should stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support. A bank holding company&#8217;s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the FRB to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of the FRB&#8217;s regulations or both.

The Company is not a financial holding company for purposes of the FRB.

The Company is also a bank holding company within the meaning of the California Financial Code. As such, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the DBO.

The Company&#8217;s securities are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). As such, the Company is subject to the reporting, proxy solicitation and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act.

The Bank

The Bank, as a California chartered non-FRB member bank, is subject to primary supervision, periodic examination and regulation by the DBO and the FDIC. If, as a result of an examination of the Bank, the FDIC should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the Bank&#8217;s operations are unsatisfactory, or that the Bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, various remedies are available to the FDIC. Such remedies include the power to enjoin &#8220;unsafe or unsound&#8221; practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict the growth of the Bank, to assess civil monetary penalties, to remove officers and directors, and ultimately to terminate the Bank&#8217;s deposit insurance, which for a California chartered bank would result in a revocation of the Bank&#8217;s charter. The DBO has many of the same remedial powers.

Various requirements and restrictions under the laws of the State of California and the United States affect the operations of the Bank. State and federal statutes and regulations relate to many aspects of the Bank&#8217;s operations, including reserves against deposits, ownership of deposit accounts, interest rates payable on deposits, loans &#38; leases, investments, mergers and acquisitions, borrowings, dividends, locations of branch offices, and capital requirements. Further, the Bank is required to maintain certain levels of capital. See &#8220;Capital Standards.&#8221;

The USA Patriot Act

Title III of the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA Patriot Act&#8221;) includes numerous provisions for fighting international money laundering and blocking terrorism access to the U.S. financial system. The USA Patriot Act requires certain additional due diligence and record keeping practices, including, but not limited to, new customers, correspondent, and private banking accounts.

&#160;

Part of the USA Patriot Act requires covered financial institutions to: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program; (ii) establish appropriate anti-money laundering policies, procedures and controls; (iii) appoint a Bank Secrecy Act officer responsible for day-to-day compliance; and (iv) conduct independent audits. The USA Patriot Act also expands penalties for violation of the anti-money laundering laws, including expanding the circumstances under which funds in a bank account may be forfeited. The USA Patriot Act also requires covered financial institutions to respond, under certain circumstances, to requests for information from federal banking agencies within 120 hours.

&#160;

Privacy Restrictions

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) requires financial institutions in the U.S. to provide certain privacy disclosures to customers and consumers, to comply with certain restrictions on the sharing and usage of personally identifiable information, and to implement and maintain commercially reasonable customer information safeguarding standards.

&#160;

The Company believes that it complies with all provisions of the GLBA and all implementing regulations and the Bank has developed appropriate policies and procedures to meet its responsibilities in connection with the privacy provisions of GLBA.

Dividends and Other Transfer of Funds

Dividends from the Bank constitute the principal source of income to the Company. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Bank is subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to the Company. Under such restrictions, the amount available for payment of dividends to the Company by the Bank totaled $47.1 million at December 31, 2015. During 2015, the Bank paid $10.9 million in dividends to the Company.

The FDIC and the DBO also have authority to prohibit the Bank from engaging in activities that, in their opinion, constitute unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the bank in question and other factors, that the FDIC or the DBO could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments might, under some circumstances, be an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, the FRB and the FDIC have established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by banks or bank holding companies under their jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in such guidelines and the restrictions that are or may be imposed under the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law could limit the amount of dividends that the Bank or the Company may pay. An insured depository institution is prohibited from paying management fees to any controlling persons or, with certain limited exceptions, making capital distributions if after such transaction the institution would be undercapitalized. The DBO may impose similar limitations on the Bank. See &#8220;Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms&#8221; and &#8220;Capital Standards&#8221; for a discussion of these additional restrictions on capital distributions.

Transactions with Affiliates

The Bank is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit to, or the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on behalf of the Company or other affiliates, the purchase of, or investments in stock or other securities thereof, the taking of such securities as collateral for loans &#38; leases, and the purchase of assets of the Company or other affiliates. Such restrictions prevent the Company and other affiliates from borrowing from the Bank unless the loans are secured by marketable obligations of designated amounts. Further, such secured loans and investments by the Bank to or in the Company or to or in any other affiliates are limited, individually, to 10% of the Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus (as defined by federal regulations), and such secured loans and investments are limited, in the aggregate, to 20% of the Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus (as defined by federal regulations).

In addition, the Company and its operating subsidiaries generally may not purchase a low-quality asset from an affiliate, and other specified transactions between the Company or its operating subsidiaries and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

Also, the Company and its operating subsidiaries may engage in transactions with affiliates only on terms and under conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Company or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with (or that in good faith would be offered to) non-affiliated companies.

California law also imposes certain restrictions with respect to transactions with affiliates. Additionally, limitations involving the transactions with affiliates may be imposed on the Bank under the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law. See &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms.&#8221;

&#160;

Capital Standards

The FRB and the FDIC have established risk-based capital guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by United States banking organizations. These guidelines are intended to provide a measure of capital that reflects the risk associated with a banking organization&#8217;s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets and transactions, such as letters of credit and recourse arrangements, which are recorded as off balance sheet items. Under these guidelines, nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages, which range from 0% for assets with low credit risk, such as certain U.S. Treasury securities, to 100% for assets with relatively high credit risk, such as commercial loans.

The federal banking agencies currently require a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4%. In addition to the risk-based guidelines, federal banking regulators require banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to total assets, referred to as the leverage ratio. For a banking organization rated in the highest of the five categories used by regulators to rate banking organizations, the minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets must be 4%. In addition to these uniform risk-based capital guidelines and leverage ratios that apply across the industry, the regulators have the discretion to set individual minimum capital requirements for specific institutions at rates significantly above minimum guidelines and ratios. For further information on the Company and the Bank&#8217;s risk-based capital ratios see Note 14 located in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221;

In 2013, both the FRB and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. These rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act as hereinafter defined.

The implementation of Basel III requirements will increase the required capital levels that the Company and the Bank must maintain. The final rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in over time. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the final rules will be: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets (&#8220;RWA&#8221;); (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% of RWA; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% of RWA; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% of total assets. The final rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% above each of the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, which would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0% of RWA; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% of RWA; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5% of RWA. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. The final rules also permit the Company&#8217;s subordinated debentures issued in 2003 to continue to be counted as Tier 1 capital.

The final rules became effective as applied to the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015, with a phase in period through January 1, 2019. The Company believes that it is currently in compliance with all of these new capital requirements (as fully phased-in) and that they will not result in any restrictions on the Company&#8217;s business activity.

Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) and requires the respective Federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management, and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; institution must develop a capital restoration plan. At December 31, 2015, the Bank exceeded all of the required ratios for classification as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; It should be noted; however, that the Bank&#8217;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying the federal banking agencies&#8217; prompt corrective action regulations and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the Bank&#8217;s overall financial condition or prospects.

An institution that, based upon its capital levels, is classified as well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or practice warrants such treatment. At each successive lower capital category, an insured depository institution is subject to more restrictions.

&#160;

Banking agencies have also adopted regulations which mandate that regulators take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution&#8217;s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance-sheet position); and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital. That evaluation will be made as a part of the institution&#8217;s regular safety and soundness examination. In addition, the banking agencies have amended their regulatory capital guidelines to incorporate a measure for market risk. In accordance with the amended guidelines, any company with significant trading activity must incorporate a measure for market risk in its regulatory capital calculations.

In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, commercial banking organizations may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the federal banking agencies for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses or for violations of any law, rule, regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the agency, or any written agreement with the agency. Enforcement actions may include the imposition of a conservator or receiver, the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that can be judicially enforced, the termination of insurance of deposits (in the case of a depository institution), the imposition of civil money penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted. Additionally, a holding company's inability to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banking organizations could serve as an additional basis for a regulatory action against the holding company.

&#160;

Federal banking regulators have also issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate (&#8220;CRE&#8221;) lending. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant CRE concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in CRE lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of CRE lending, or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution&#8217;s CRE portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to such increased regulatory scrutiny. The Company&#8217;s CRE portfolio may be viewed as falling within one or more of the foregoing categories, and accordingly may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny because of the CRE portfolio. Institutions that are determined by their regulator to have an undue concentration in CRE lending may be required to maintain levels of capital in excess of the statutory minimum requirements and/or be required to reduce their concentration in CRE loans. As of the Company&#8217;s most recent regulatory examination (Q1 2015), the FDIC determined that, at that time, the Company did not have any undue concentrations in CRE lending. No guarantees can be made that this classification will not change as a result of future regulatory examinations.

Safety and Soundness Standards

The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines designed to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines set forth operational and managerial standards relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (ii) loan &#38; lease documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) asset growth; (v) earnings; and (vi) compensation, fees, and benefits. In addition, the federal banking agencies have also adopted safety and soundness guidelines with respect to asset quality and earnings standards. These guidelines provide six standards for establishing and maintaining a system to identify problem assets and prevent those assets from deteriorating. Under these standards, any insured depository institution should: (i) conduct periodic asset quality reviews to identify problem assets; (ii) estimate the inherent losses in problem assets and establish reserves that are sufficient to absorb estimated losses; (iii) compare problem asset totals to capital; (iv) take appropriate corrective action to resolve problem assets; (v) consider the size and potential risks of material asset concentrations; and (vi) provide periodic asset quality reports with adequate information for management and the Board of Directors to assess the level of asset risk. These guidelines also set forth standards for evaluating and monitoring earnings and for ensuring that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.

&#160;

Deposit Insurance

After the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the deposits of the Bank are now insured by the FDIC up to $250,000 per insured depositor.

&#160;

The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 provided the FDIC Board of Directors the authority to set the designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) between 1.15% and 1.50%. The FDIC must adopt a restoration plan when the reserve ratio falls below 1.15% and begin paying dividends when the reserve ratio exceeds 1.35%.

&#160;

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act revised the assessment base against which an insured depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance premiums paid to the DIF will be calculated. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule, as mandated by Dodd-Frank, changing the deposit insurance assessment system from one that is based on total domestic deposits to one that is based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The new rule took effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.

The Bank&#8217;s FDIC premiums were $1.2 million in 2015 compared to $1.0 million in 2014. Future increases in insurance premiums could have adverse effects on the operating expenses and results of operations of the Company. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future.

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC or the Bank&#8217;s primary regulator. Management of the Company is not aware of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of the Company&#8217;s deposit insurance.

Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) and Fair Lending

The Bank is subject to certain fair lending requirements involving lending, investing, and other CRA activities. CRA requires each insured depository institution to identify the communities served by the institution&#8217;s offices and to identify the types of credit and investments the institution is prepared to extend within such communities including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. It also requires the institution&#8217;s regulators to assess the institution&#8217;s performance in meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such assessment into consideration in reviewing applications for mergers, acquisitions, relocation of existing branches, opening of new branches, and other transactions. A bank may be subject to substantial penalties and corrective measures for a violation of certain fair lending laws. 

A bank&#8217;s compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act is assessed using an evaluation system, which bases CRA ratings on an institution&#8217;s lending, service and investment performance. An unsatisfactory rating may be the basis for denying a merger application. The Bank&#8217;s latest CRA examination was completed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in September 2013 and the Bank received an overall Outstanding rating in complying with its CRA obligations. 

Consumer Protection Regulations

The Company&#8217;s lending activities are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts and Practices and the Dodd-Frank Act. Deposit operations are also subject to laws and regulations that protect consumer rights including Funds Availability, Truth in Savings, and Electronic Funds Transfers. Additional rules govern check writing ability on certain interest earning accounts and prescribe procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records. Additionally, effective October 26, 2013, there is a new provision of the Federal Reserve Regulation E to accommodate the new Remittance Transfer Rule requirement of the Dodd-Frank Act concerning international wires.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;)

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the sweeping financial regulatory reform, Dodd-Frank Act, that implements significant changes to the regulation of the financial services industry, including provisions that, among other things:

&#160;

&#183; Centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency within the Federal Reserve Board, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, with broad rulemaking, supervision and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and thrifts. 

&#183; Apply the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to bank holding companies. 

&#183; Require the FDIC to seek to make its capital requirements for banks countercyclical so that the amount of capital required to be maintained increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction. 

&#183; Change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital. 

&#183; Implement corporate governance revisions, including executive compensation and proxy access by stockholders. 

&#183; Make permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance and increase the cash limit of Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection from $100,000 to $250,000, and provide unlimited federal deposit insurance until January 1, 2013 for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions. 

&#183; Repeal the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits effective July 21, 2011, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. 

Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking by various regulatory agencies and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or the financial industry more generally. The elimination of the prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits could materially increase our interest expense, depending on our competitors' responses. 

Notice and Approval Requirements Related to Control

Banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any stockholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution. These laws include the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act. Among other things, these laws require regulatory filings by a stockholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or bank holding company. The determination whether an investor "controls" a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by family members, affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. If a party's ownership of the Company were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to "control" the Company for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences.

In addition, except under limited circumstances, bank holding companies are prohibited from acquiring, without prior approval:

&#8226; control of any other bank or bank holding company or all or substantially all the assets thereof; or 

&#8226; more than 5% of the voting shares of a bank or bank holding company which is not already a subsidiary. 

&#160;

Incentive Compensation

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulators and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, including the Company and the Bank, having at least $1 billion in total assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The agencies proposed such regulations in April 2011, but the regulations have not been finalized. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which the Company may structure compensation for our executives.

The FRB will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations that are not &#8220;large, complex banking organizations.&#8221; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.

Available Information

Company reports filed with the SEC including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and ownership reports filed by directors, executive officers and principal stockholders can be accessed through the Company&#8217;s website at http://www.fmbonline.com. The link to the SEC is on the About Us page.

