 ITEM 1. Discussion of Business 

The First Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on January 15, 1985, for the purpose of becoming the parent holding company of The First National Bank of Damariscotta, which was chartered as a national bank under the laws of the United States on May 30, 1864. At the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 30, 2008, the Company's name was changed from First National Lincoln Corporation to The First Bancorp, Inc. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;On January 14, 2005, the acquisition of FNB Bankshares ("FNB") of Bar Harbor, Maine, was completed, adding seven banking offices and one investment management office in Hancock and Washington counties of Maine. FNB's subsidiary, The First National Bank of Bar Harbor, was merged into The First National Bank of Damariscotta at closing, and from January 31, 2005, until January 28, 2016, the combined banks operated under the name: The First, N.A. On January 28, 2016, the Board of Directors voted to change the Bank's name to First National Bank (the "Bank"). 

On October 26, 2012, the Bank completed the purchase of a branch at 63 Union Street in Rockland, Maine, from Camden National Bank (Camden National). The branch is one of 15 Maine branches Camden National acquired from Bank of America, and this branch was divested by Camden National to resolve competitive concerns in that market raised by the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division. As part of the transaction, the Bank acquired approximately $32.3 million in deposits as well as a small volume of loans. On the same date, the Bank completed the purchase of a full-service bank building at 145 Exchange Street in Bangor, Maine, also from Camden National, and opened a full-service branch in this building in February of 2013. The total value of the transaction was $6.6 million, which included the premises and equipment for the two locations, the premium paid for the Rockland deposits, a small amount of loans, plus core deposit intangible and goodwill. 

&#32;As of December 31, 2015, the Company's securities consisted of one class of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock. At that date, there were 10,753,855 shares of common stock outstanding. On January 9, 2009, the Company issued $25,000,000 in Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program ("the CPP Shares"). As of May 8, 2013, the Company had repurchased all of the CPP Shares. Incident to such issuance of the CPP shares, the Company issued to the Treasury warrants (the "Warrants") to purchase up to 225,904 shares of the Company's common stock at a price per share of $16.60 (subject to adjustment). The Warrants (and any shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the Warrants) are freely transferable by Treasury to third parties. The Warrants have a term of ten years and could be exercised by Treasury or a subsequent holder at any time or from time to time during their term. To the extent they had not previously been exercised, the Warrants will expire after ten years. The Warrants were unchanged as a result of the CPP Shares repurchase transactions. 

&#32;In May 2015, the Treasury sold the Warrants to private parties. In accordance with the contractual terms of the Warrants, the number of shares and strike price were adjusted at the time of the sale. As a result of this transaction, the number of shares of common stock issuable under the Warrants now stands at 226,819 shares with a strike price of $16.53 per share. 

The common stock of the Bank is the principal asset of the Company, which has no other subsidiaries. The Bank's capital stock consists of one class of common stock of which 290,069 shares, par value $2.50 per share, are authorized and outstanding. All of the Bank's common stock is owned by the Company. 

The Bank emphasizes personal service, and its customers are primarily small businesses and individuals to whom the Bank offers a wide variety of services, including deposit accounts and consumer, commercial and mortgage loans. The Bank has not made any material changes in its mode of conducting business during the past five years. The banking business in the Bank's market area is seasonal with lower deposits in the winter and spring and higher deposits in the summer and fall. This swing is predictable and has not had a materially adverse effect on the Bank. 

In addition to traditional banking services, the Company provides investment management and private banking services through First Advisors, which is an operating division of the Bank. First Advisors is focused on taking advantage of opportunities created as the larger banks have altered their personal service commitment to clients not meeting established account criteria. First Advisors is able to offer a comprehensive array of private banking, financial planning, investment management and trust services to individuals, businesses, non-profit organizations and municipalities of varying asset size, and to provide the highest level of personal service. The staff includes investment and trust professionals with extensive experience. 

The financial services landscape has changed considerably over the past five years in the Bank's primary market area. Two large out-of-state banks have continued to experience local change as a result of mergers and acquisitions at the regional and national level. Credit unions have continued to expand their membership and the scope of banking services offered. Non-banking entities such as brokerage houses, mortgage companies and insurance companies are offering very competitive products. Many of these entities and institutions have resources substantially greater than those available to the Bank and are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as the Company and the Bank. 

The Company believes that there will continue to be a need for a bank in the Bank's primary market area with local management having decision-making power and emphasizing loans to small and medium-sized businesses and to individuals. The Bank has concentrated on extending business loans to such customers in the Bank's primary market area and to extending investment and trust services to clients with accounts of all sizes. The Bank's Management also makes decisions based upon, among other things, the knowledge of the Bank's employees regarding the communities and customers in the Bank's primary market area. The individuals employed by the Bank, to a large extent, reside near the branch offices and thus are generally familiar with their communities and customers. This is important in local decision-making and allows the Bank to respond to customer questions and concerns on a timely basis and fosters quality customer service. 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;1 

The Bank has worked and will continue to work to position itself to be competitive in its market area. The Bank's ability to make decisions close to the marketplace, Management's commitment to providing quality banking products, the caliber of the professional staff, and the community involvement of the Bank's employees are all factors affecting the Bank's ability to be competitive. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Company is a financial holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), and section 225.82 of Regulation Y issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board" or "FRB"), and is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board an annual report and other information required pursuant to the Act. The Company is subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Virtually all of the Company's cash revenues are generally derived from dividends paid to the Company by the Bank. These dividends are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions which are summarized in Note 17 to the accompanying financial statements. The Bank is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") and is subject to the provisions of the National Bank Act. As a result, it must meet certain liquidity and capital requirements, which are discussed in the following sections. 

General 

As a financial holding company, the Company is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the FRB. The Company is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). As a company with securities listed on the NASDAQ, the Company is subject to the rules of the NASDAQ for listed companies. The Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily by the OCC and is subject to regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"). 

Bank Holding Company Activities 

As a bank holding company ("BHC") that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. "Financial in nature" activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. "Complementary activities" are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk. 

FRB approval is not generally required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company to be acquired has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Prior FRB approval is required before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. 

Because we are a financial holding company, if the Bank receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (the "CRA"), of less than satisfactory, the Bank and/or the Company will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that the Bank is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking under the BHC Act. 

In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and the risk to the stability of the United States banking system. 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The primary source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock is dividends from the Bank. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Bank may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;2 

The Bank is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from a subsidiary to the Company and any nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called "covered transactions." In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A bank's transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm's-length terms. 

The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide the support. The OCC may order an assessment of the BHC if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the BHC failed to pay the assessment within three months, the OCC could order the sale of the BHC's holdings of stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency. 

In the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the claims of deposits payable in the United States (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, including the BHC, and depositors whose deposits are solely payable at such insured depository institution's non-U.S. offices. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, is resulting in broad changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s. Financial regulatory agencies have issued numerous rulemakings to implement its provisions. As a result, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known, but it has affected, and we expect it will continue to affect, most of our businesses in some way, either directly through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks, capital or liquidity. 

Federal regulatory agencies issued numerous other rulemakings in 2012 and 2013 to implement various other requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. Agencies have proposed rules establishing a comprehensive framework for the regulation of derivatives, restricting banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading or owning interests in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds (the "Volcker Rule"), and requiring sponsors of asset-backed securities ("ABS") to retain an ownership stake in the ABS. In November 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council proposed new regulations for addressing perceived risks that money market mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the United States. Once final recommendations are issued, the SEC is required to adopt the recommendations or explain its reasons for not implementing the recommendations. Although we have analyzed these and other proposed rules, the absence of final rules and the complexity of some of the proposed rules make it difficult for the Company to estimate the financial, compliance or operational impacts of the proposals. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB") to ensure consumers receive clear and accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to protect consumers from hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices. The CFPB has begun exercising supervisory review of banks under its jurisdiction and has concentrated much of its initial rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. During 2016 , we expect the CFPB will focus its rulemaking efforts on integrating disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents and expanding the scope of information lenders must report in connection with mortgage and other housing-related loan applications. In addition to the exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB is continuing its on-going examination activities with respect to a number of consumer focused businesses and financial products. 

Customer Information Security 

The FDIC, the OCC and other bank regulatory agencies have published guidelines (the "Guidelines") establishing standards for safeguarding nonpublic personal information about customers that implement provisions of the Graham-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA"). Among other things, the Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. 

Privacy 

The FDIC, the OCC and other regulatory agencies have published privacy rules pursuant to provisions of the GLBA ("Privacy Rules"). The Privacy Rules, which govern the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by financial 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;3 

institutions, require a financial institution to provide notice to customers (and other consumers in some circumstances) about its privacy policies and practices, describe the conditions under which a financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties, and provide a method for consumers to prevent a financial institution from disclosing that information to most nonaffiliated third parties by "opting-out" of that disclosure, subject to certain exceptions. 

USA Patriot Act 

The USA Patriot Act of 2001, designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain anonymous access to the U.S. financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, broker-dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The USA Patriot Act, together with the implementing regulations of various federal regulatory agencies, have caused financial institutions, including the Bank, to adopt and implement additional or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other things, anti-money laundering compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, customer identity verification and customer risk analysis. The statute and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the Federal Reserve Board (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHC Act or under the Bank Merger Act. 

The Bank Secrecy Act 

The Bank Secrecy Act (the "BSA") requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. It includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting) as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Bank has established an anti-money laundering program to comply with the BSA requirements. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") implements a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures for public companies (including publicly-held bank holding companies such as the Company) designed to promote honesty and transparency in corporate America and better protect investors from the type of corporate wrongdoings that occurred at Enron and WorldCom, among other companies. SOX's principal provisions, many of which have been implemented through regulations released and policies and rules adopted by the securities exchanges in 2003 and 2004, provide for and include, among other things: 

-  The creation of an independent accounting oversight board; 

-  Auditor independence provisions which restrict non-audit services that accountants may provide to clients; 

-  Additional corporate governance and responsibility measures, including the requirement that the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of a public company certify financial statements; 

-  The forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer's securities by directors and senior officers in the twelve-month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; 

-  An increase in the oversight of, and enhancement of certain requirements relating to, audit committees of public companies and how they interact with the public company's independent auditors; 

-  Requirements that audit committee members must be independent and are barred from accepting consulting, advisory or other compensatory fees from the issuer; 

-  Requirements that companies disclose whether at least one member of the audit committee is a 'financial expert' (as such term is defined by the SEC and if not, why not; 

-  Expanded disclosure requirements for corporate insiders, including accelerated reporting of stock transactions by insiders and a prohibition on insider trading during pension blackout periods; 

-  A prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions, such as the Bank, on nonpreferential terms and in compliance with bank regulatory requirements; 

-  Disclosure of a code of ethics and filing a Form 8-K in the event of a change or waiver of such code; and 

-  A range of enhanced penalties for fraud and other violations. 

The Company complies with the provisions of SOX and its underlying regulations. Management believes that such compliance efforts have strengthened the Company's overall corporate governance structure and does not expect that such compliance has to date had, or will in the future have, a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial condition. 

Capital Requirements 

The OCC has established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by FDIC-insured banks. The Federal Reserve Board has established substantially identical guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital, on a consolidated basis, by BHCs. If a banking organization's capital levels fall below the minimum requirements established by such guidelines, a bank or BHC will be expected to develop and implement a plan acceptable to the 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;4 

FDIC or the Federal Reserve Board, respectively, to achieve adequate levels of capital within a reasonable period, and may be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses, merge with other institutions or open branch facilities until such capital levels are achieved. Federal regulations require federal bank regulators to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to insured depository institutions that fail to satisfy minimum capital requirements and imposes significant restrictions on such institutions. See "Prompt Corrective Action" below. 

Leverage Capital Ratio 

The regulations of the OCC require national banks to maintain a minimum "Leverage Capital Ratio" or "Tier 1 Capital" (as defined in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines discussed in the following paragraphs) to Total Assets of 4.0%. Any bank experiencing or anticipating significant growth is expected to maintain capital well above the minimum levels. The Federal Reserve Board's guidelines impose substantially similar leverage capital requirements on bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. It is possible that banking regulators may increase minimum capital requirements for banks should economic conditions worsen. 

Risk-Based Capital Requirements 

OCC regulations also require national banks to maintain minimum capital levels as a percentage of a bank's risk-adjusted assets. A bank's qualifying total capital ("Total Capital") for this purpose may include two components: "Core" (Tier 1) Capital and "Supplementary" (Tier 2) Capital. Core Capital consists primarily of common stockholders' equity, which generally includes common stock, related surplus and retained earnings, certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, and (subject to certain limitations) mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships, less all other intangible assets (primarily goodwill). Supplementary Capital elements include, subject to certain limitations, a portion of the allowance for loan losses, perpetual preferred stock that does not qualify for inclusion in Tier 1 capital, long-term preferred stock with an original maturity of at least 20 years and related surplus, certain forms of perpetual debt and mandatory convertible securities, and certain forms of subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock. 

The risk-based capital rules assign the majority of a bank's balance sheet assets and the credit equivalent amounts of the bank's off-balance sheet obligations to one of four risk categories, weighted at 0%, 20%, 50% or 100%, as applicable. A small amount of assets and off-balance sheet obligations are assigned a risk weight above 100%. Applying these risk-weights to each category of the bank's balance sheet assets and to the credit equivalent amounts of the bank's off-balance sheet obligations and summing the totals results in the amount of the bank's total Risk-Adjusted Assets for purposes of the risk-based capital requirements. Risk-Adjusted Assets can either exceed or be less than reported balance sheet assets, depending on the risk profile of the banking organization. Risk-Adjusted Assets for institutions such as the Bank will generally be less than reported balance sheet assets because its retail banking activities include proportionally more residential mortgage loans, many of its investment securities have a low risk weighting and there is a relatively small volume of off-balance sheet obligations. 

The risk-based capital regulations require all banks to maintain a minimum ratio of Total Capital to Risk-Adjusted Assets of 8.0%, of which at least one-half (4.0%) must be Core (Tier 1) Capital. For the purpose of calculating these ratios: (i) a banking organization's Supplementary Capital eligible for inclusion in Total Capital is limited to no more than 100% of Core Capital; and (ii) the aggregate amount of certain types of Supplementary Capital eligible for inclusion in Total Capital is further limited. For example, the regulations limit the portion of the allowance for loan losses eligible for inclusion in Total Capital to 1.25% of Risk-Adjusted Assets. The Federal Reserve Board has established substantially identical risk-based capital requirements, which are applied to bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. The risk-based capital regulations explicitly provide for the consideration of interest rate risk in the overall evaluation of a bank's capital adequacy to ensure that banks effectively measure and monitor their interest rate risk, and that they maintain capital adequate for that risk. A bank deemed by its federal banking regulator to have excessive interest rate risk exposure may be required to maintain additional capital (that is, capital in excess of the minimum ratios discussed above). The Bank believes, based on its level of interest rate risk exposure, that this provision will not have a material adverse effect on it. 

On December 31, 2015 , the Company's consolidated Total and Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratios were 15.78% &#32;and 14.70% , respectively, and its Leverage Capital Ratio was 8.81% . Based on the above figures and accompanying discussion, the Company exceeds all regulatory capital requirements and is considered well capitalized. 

Basel III Capital Requirements 

In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (the "BCBS") finalized a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as "Basel III." These guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 and were intended to address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to the crisis including excessive leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. The Basel III guidelines will: 

-  raise the quality of capital as that banks will be better able to absorb losses on both a going concern and gone concern basis; 

-  increase the risk coverage of the capital framework, specifically for trading activities, securitizations, exposures to off-balance sheet vehicles, and counterparty credit exposures arising from derivatives; 

-  raise the level of minimum capital requirements; 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;5 

-  establish an international leverage ratio; 

-  develop capital buffers; 

-  raise standards for the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and public disclosures (Pillar 3). 

On June 2013, the U.S. banking regulators finalized rulemaking to implement the BCBS capital guidelines for U.S. banks, including, among other things: 

-  implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital ratios, and introduce a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk; 

-  revise "Basel I" rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity; 

-  modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III; 

-  comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit ratings. 

The U.S. banking regulators also approved a final rule to implement changes to the market risk capital rule, which requires banking organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the market risks of those activities. 

The Company has evaluated the impact of Basel III on its capital ratios based on our interpretation of the capital requirements, and we estimate that under the Basel III proposals our Tier 1 common equity ratio of 14.70% &#32;exceeds the fully phased-in minimum of ratio of 7.0% by 7.7% at December 31, 2015 . 

From time to time, the OCC, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC") propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") requires, among other things, that the federal banking regulators take "prompt corrective action" with respect to, and imposes significant restrictions on, any bank that fails to satisfy its applicable minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories consisting of "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." Under applicable regulations, a bank that has a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 8.0% or greater and a Leverage Capital Ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure, is deemed to be "well capitalized." A bank that has a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Leverage Capital Ratio of 4.0% (or 3% for banks with the highest regulatory examination rating that are not experiencing or anticipating significant growth or expansion) or greater and does not meet the definition of a well-capitalized bank is considered to be "adequately capitalized." A bank that has a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of less than 8.0% or has a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio that is less than 4.0%, except as noted above, or a Leverage Capital Ratio of less than 4.0% is considered "undercapitalized." A bank that has a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of less than 6.0%, or a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio that is less than 3.0% or a Leverage Capital Ratio that is less than 3.0% is considered to be "significantly undercapitalized," and a bank that has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be "critically undercapitalized." A bank may be deemed to be in a capital category lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or receives an unsatisfactory examination rating. FDICIA generally prohibits a bank from making capital distributions (including payment of dividends) or paying management fees to controlling stockholders or their affiliates if, after such payment, the bank would be undercapitalized. 

Under FDICIA and the applicable implementing regulations, an undercapitalized bank will be (i) subject to increased monitoring by its primary federal banking regulator; (ii) required to submit to its primary federal banking regulator an acceptable capital restoration plan (guaranteed, subject to certain limits, by the bank's holding company) within 45 days of being classified as undercapitalized; (iii) subject to strict asset growth limitations; and (iv) required to obtain prior regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, transactions not in the ordinary course of business, and entries into new lines of business. In addition to the foregoing, the primary federal banking regulator may issue a "prompt corrective action directive" to any undercapitalized institution. Such a directive may (i) require sale or re-capitalization of the bank; (ii) impose additional restrictions on transactions between the bank and its affiliates; (iii) limit interest rates paid by the bank on deposits; (iv) limit asset growth and other activities; (v) require divestiture of subsidiaries; (vi) require replacement of directors and officers; and (vii) restrict capital distributions by the bank's parent holding company. In addition to the foregoing, a significantly undercapitalized institution may not award bonuses or increases in compensation to its senior executive officers until it has submitted an acceptable capital restoration plan and received approval from its primary federal banking regulator. 

No later than 90 days after an institution becomes critically undercapitalized, the primary federal banking regulator for the institution must appoint a receiver or, with the concurrence of the FDIC, a conservator, unless the agency, with the concurrence of the FDIC, determines that the purpose of the prompt corrective action provisions would be better served by another course of 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;6 

action. FDICIA requires that any alternative determination be "documented" and reassessed on a periodic basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a receiver must be appointed after 270 days unless the appropriate federal banking agency and the FDIC certify that the institution is viable and not expected to fail. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of the Bank up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the "FDIR Act"). The FDIR Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (the "reserve ratio" or "DRR"). The FDIR Act also granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio. 

In 2009, the FDIC undertook several measures in an effort to replenish the DIF. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and set new initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009. Annual rates ranged from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the highest credit ratings, to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments to the initial assessment rate could have lowered the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raised the rate to 77.5 cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base for the second quarter 2009. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC amended its regulations to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for fourth quarter 2009, and all of 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. For purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used the institution's assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009. The unused portion of the prepaid assessment was refunded on June 28, 2013. 

The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the DIF, raised the minimum DRR to 1.35% and removed the upper limit of the range. In October 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. At the same time, the FDIC Board proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF management. In December 2010, as part of the comprehensive plan, the FDIC Board adopted a final rule to set the DRR at 2%, and in February 2011, the FDIC Board approved the remainder of the comprehensive plan. The Restoration Plan eliminated a 3 basis point increase in the annual assessment rates that was to take effect January 1, 2011. 

On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved a final rule on assessments, dividends, assessment base and large bank pricing that took effect on April 1, 2011. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on an assessment base and an assessment rate. Generally, the assessment base is an institution's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. For large and highly complex institutions (those that are very large and are structurally and operationally complex or that pose unique challenges and risks in the case of failure), the assessment rate is determined by combining supervisory ratings and certain financial measures into scorecards. The score received by an institution will be converted into an assessment rate for the institution. The FDIC retains the ability to adjust the total score of large and highly complex institutions based upon quantitative or qualitative measures not adequately captured in the scorecards. 

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository institutions paid approximately 1.00 to 1.02 cents per $100 of assessable deposits during the first nine months of 2011. To coincide with Dodd-Frank Act mandated changes to the insurance assessment base, the FDIC established lower FICO assessment rates, 0.66 cents per $100 of assessment base for 2012, 0.64 cents per $100 of assessment base for 2013, 0.62 cents per $100 of assessment base for 2014 and 0.60 cents per $100 of assessment base for 2015 and on. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution's deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;7 

Brokered Deposits and Pass-Through Deposit Insurance Limitations 

Under FDICIA, a bank cannot accept brokered deposits unless it either (i) is "Well Capitalized" or (ii) is "Adequately Capitalized" and has received a written waiver from its primary federal banking regulator. For this purpose, "Well Capitalized" and "Adequately Capitalized" have the same definitions as in the Prompt Corrective Action regulations. See "Prompt Corrective Action" above. Banks that are not in the "Well Capitalized" category are subject to certain limits on the rates of interest they may offer on any deposits (whether or not obtained through a third-party deposit broker). Pass-through insurance coverage is not available in banks that do not satisfy the requirements for acceptance of brokered deposits, except that pass-through insurance coverage will be provided for employee benefit plan deposits in institutions which at the time of acceptance of the deposit meet all applicable regulatory capital requirements and send written notice to their depositors that their funds are eligible for pass-through deposit insurance. The Bank currently accepts brokered deposits. 

Real Estate Lending Standards 

FDICIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to adopt uniform real estate lending standards. The FDIC and the OCC have adopted regulations which establish supervisory limitations on Loan-to-Value ("LTV") ratios in real estate loans by FDIC-insured banks, including national banks. The regulations require banks to establish LTV ratio limitations within or below the prescribed uniform range of supervisory limits. The CFPB amended Regulation Z effective January 10, 2014 to implement Ability to Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards for residential mortgage lending. The Bank is considered a large bank under the rule. The Bank follows the Ability to Repay rule by making a good faith determination of an applicant’s ability to repay under the terms of the transaction; loans meeting the outlined standards for Qualified Mortgages are identified as such in the Bank’s records. The CFPB further amended Regulation Z along with amending Regulation X to combine certain disclosures consumers receive when applying for and closing on a mortgage loan under the Truth in Lending Act and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These amendments became effective October 3, 2015. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

Pursuant to FDICIA the federal bank regulatory agencies have prescribed, by regulation, standards and guidelines for all insured depository institutions and depository institution holding companies relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest rate risk exposure; (v) asset growth; and (vi) compensation, fees and benefits. The compensation standards prohibit employment contracts, compensation or benefit arrangements, stock option plans, fee arrangements or other compensatory arrangements that would provide "excessive" compensation, fees or benefits, or that could lead to material financial loss. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies are required by FDICIA to prescribe standards specifying: (i) maximum classified assets to capital ratios; (ii) minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses without impairing capital; and (iii) to the extent feasible, a minimum ratio of market value to book value for publicly-traded shares of depository institutions and depository institution holding companies. 

Consumer Protection Provisions 

FDICIA also includes provisions requiring advance notice to regulators and customers for any proposed branch closing and authorizing (subject to future appropriation of the necessary funds) reduced insurance assessments for institutions offering "lifeline" banking accounts or engaged in lending in distressed communities. FDICIA also includes provisions requiring depository institutions to make additional and uniform disclosures to depositors with respect to the rates of interest, fees and other terms applicable to consumer deposit accounts. 

FDIC Waiver of Certain Regulatory Requirements 

The FDIC issued a rule, effective on September 22, 2003, that includes a waiver provision which grants the FDIC Board of Directors extremely broad discretionary authority to waive FDIC regulatory provisions that are not specifically mandated by statute or by a separate regulation. 

Future Legislation or Regulation 

In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have continued their increased focus on regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that further increase regulation of the financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and abroad. Further legislative changes and additional regulations may change our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of doing business, affect our compensation structure, restrict or expand the activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether future legislative proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

Impact of Monetary Policy 

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;8 

States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions' deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The nature of future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the future business and earnings of the Company and the Bank cannot be predicted. See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, regarding the Bank's net interest margin and the effect of interest rate volatility on future earnings. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , the Company had 223 employees and full-time equivalency of 218 employees. The Company enjoys good relations with its employees. A variety of employee benefits, including health, group life and disability income, a defined contribution retirement plan, and an incentive bonus plan, are available to qualifying officers and other employees. 

Company Website 

The Company maintains a website at www.thefirstbancorp.com where it makes available, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as well as all Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on the Company's website does not constitute a part of this report. Interactive reports for our 10-K and 10-Q filings are available in XBRL format at the Company's website. 

The First Bancorp - 2015 Form 10-K - Page &#32;9 

