 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

&#160;

Freshpet is disrupting the $22.5 billion North American pet food industry by driving consumers to reassess conventional dog and cat food offerings that have remained essentially unchanged for decades. We position our brand to benefit from mainstream trends of growing pet humanization and consumer focus on health and wellness. We price our products to be accessible to the average consumer, providing us with broad demographic appeal and allowing us to penetrate multiple classes of retail, including grocery, mass, club, pet specialty and natural. We have successfully expanded our network of Freshpet Fridges within leading blue-chip retail chains including Albertsons, BJ&#8217;s, Kroger, Petco, PetSmart, Publix, Safeway, Target, Wal-Mart and Whole Foods. The strength of our business model extends to our customers, who we believe find that Freshpet grows their pet category sales, drives higher traffic, increases shopper frequency and delivers category leading margins. As of December 31, 2015, Freshpet Fridges were located in over 15,000 stores, and we believe there is an opportunity to install a Freshpet Fridge in at least 35,000 stores across North America.

Our Industry 

&#160;

We compete in the North American dog and cat food market, which had 2014 retail sales of over $22.5 billion and has grown at an average compounded annual growth rate of over 3% from 2012 to 2014, according to Euromonitor. According to the American Pet Products Association, or APPA, U.S. pet food spending is expected to continue to increase at a similar rate over the next 5 years. Of the total market, dog food, cat food, and treats &#38; mixers accounted for retail sales of $12.1 billion, $6.8 billion, and $3.5 billion, respectively. The U.S. represented $20.8 billion or over 92% of North American dog and cat food sales. The pet food market has historically been resilient as consumers continue to spend on their pets even during economic downturns. Within the pet food market, premium and/or natural brands are gaining market share, according to Packaged Facts. 

&#160;

We believe the following trends are driving growth in our industry: 

&#160;

Pet ownership. There are currently over 82.5 million pet-owning households in the United States, according to the APPA. The percentage of U.S. households with dogs or cats (or both) has increased from 47.8% in 2006 to 52.3% in 2014. More U.S. households today have pets than have children, which we believe to be a result of demographic shifts and changing attitudes towards pets. 

&#160;

Pet humanization . According to Packaged Facts, 83% of U.S. pet owners view their pets as members of the family. As pets are increasingly viewed as companions, friends, and family members, pet owners are being transformed into &#8220;pet parents&#8221; who spare no expense for their loved ones, driving premiumization across pet categories. This trend is reflected in food purchasing decisions. Nearly 80% of U.S. pet owners are as concerned about the quality of their pet&#8217;s food as they are about their own, according to Market researcher Mintel. 

Increasing consumer focus on health &#38; wellness. Consumers are increasingly purchasing fresh, natural, and organic food products. According to Euromonitor, from 2002 to 2014, the U.S. natural and organic food market grew at a compound annual growth rate of over 9%, compared to the overall U.S. food market&#8217;s growth rate of 2.8%. We believe consumers are seeking simple, fresh and easy to understand food products from brands they trust and made with ingredients that are transparently sourced. 

&#160;

The pet food purchasing decision is underpinned by higher brand loyalty than many other consumer packaged goods categories. A consumer selecting a pet food brand resists frequent switching in order to avoid disrupting the pet&#8217;s diet, resulting in high repeat purchasing behavior. As a result, we believe that as consumers try fresh, refrigerated pet food, they are likely to become repeat users of the product.

Our Opportunity 

Even though long-term consumer trends of pet humanization and health and wellness are well documented, conventional pet food sold as dry kibble or in wet cans has not changed substantially for decades. We believe that the pet food industry has not kept pace with how consumers think about food for their families, including their pets. As a result, consumers are searching for higher quality, less processed food for their dogs and cats&#8212;meals that measure up to today&#8217;s sensibilities of 

what actually constitutes &#8220;good food.&#8221; Freshpet was specifically designed to address this growing need with affordable offerings accessible to the a verage consumer. 

Our Mission and Values 

We started Freshpet with a single-minded mission&#8212;to bring the power of real, fresh food to our dogs and cats. And, we are committed to doing so in ways that are good for Pets, People and Planet. 

Pets 

Our pets are members of our family and deserve to eat the kind of fresh, healthy food that we do. We cook our fresh, nutritious pet food with the same care that we would take in preparing human food. Through the Freshpet Foundation, we support nutritional research in areas of prevention, care and treatment of diseases in dogs. Since founding Freshpet, we have donated over two million fresh meals to pets via shelters, charitable organizations and humane societies. Our team members get paid time off to pursue activities that help pets in their community. We also participate in Random Acts of Kindness to do our part to improve the lives of pets and pet parents. 

People 

People include our team members, our partners and pet parents. We treat our team members with respect and are committed to helping them develop professionally and personally. We try to be good partners with customers, distributors and suppliers by conducting business with honesty and transparency. Additionally, we strive to help pet owners by providing pet parenting resources. 

Planet

We are committed to being socially responsible and minimizing our environmental impact. The electricity used in the Freshpet Kitchens is 100% wind-powered. We also strive to conserve energy by continually improving the efficiency of our Freshpet Fridges and partnering with freight and logistics providers committed to sustainable practices.

Our commitment to our values helps us engage with consumers, motivate our team members and attract strong partners, which allows us to fulfill our mission of delivering the best nutritional product choices to improve the well-being of our pets, enrich pet parents&#8217; lives and contribute to communities. Freshpet&#8212;Pets, People, Planet.

Our Products 

Our products consist of dog food, cat food and dog and cat treats. All Freshpet products are made according to our nutritional philosophy of fresh, meat-based nutrition and minimal processing. Our proprietary recipes include real, fresh meat and varying combinations of vitamin-rich vegetables, leafy greens and anti-oxidant rich fruits, without the use of preservatives, additives or artificial ingredients. Our unique product attributes appeal to diverse consumer needs across multiple classes of retail where Freshpet is sold. Consequently, our brand resonates across a broad cross-section of pet parent demographics. 

All of our products are sold under the Freshpet brand name, with ingredients, packaging and labeling customized by class of retail. Our products are available in multiple forms, including slice and serve rolls, bagged meals and tubs. 

&#160;

We also offer fresh treats across all classes of retail under the Dognation and Dog Joy labels, which accounted for 10% of total net sales in 2015. 

Our Product Innovation 

As the first and only manufacturer of fresh, refrigerated pet food distributed across North America, product innovation is core to our strategy. We take a fresh approach to pet food and are not constrained by conventional pet food products, attributes and production capabilities. We employ a tightly-knit, creative team of marketing and research and development professionals, and we consult with outside experts through our Nutrition Council, which includes leading microbiologists and veterinary nutritionists. Our team often identifies pet parents&#8217; needs by evaluating emerging demand trends in both pet food and human food. Our fully equipped research and development facility located near the Freshpet Kitchens tests small batches of new recipes and tries out new cooking techniques. New products are refined iteratively with the help of consumer panel data to arrive at products that we believe can be commercially successful. 

The success of our approach is evidenced by our broad product portfolio today. We began Freshpet by producing fresh, refrigerated slice and serve rolls, and over time have steadily expanded into successful new product forms including bags, tubs and treats. We also introduced new recipes and ingredients, such as proteins and grain-free options, never before seen in pet food that cater to the specific dietary requirements of pets. 

For the year ended 2015, new product introductions since 2011 represented 46% of our net sales. We have a strong innovation pipeline, including entirely new product platforms, which expand the breadth of our fresh offerings. We expect that new product introductions will continue to meaningfully drive growth going forward. 

Our Supply Chain 

Manufacturing: All of our products are manufactured in the United States. We own and operate what we believe to be the only fresh, refrigerated pet food manufacturing facility in North America, the Freshpet Kitchens at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. This 58,000 square foot facility was built to human grade food standards and houses two production lines customized to produce fresh, refrigerated food. Due to our continued growth, we have undertaken a capital expansion project at our Freshpet Kitchens to increase our plant capacity and distribution. We believe the expansion, which we expect to complete during 2016, will increase our production capacity at our Freshpet Kitchens by at least 130%. In 2015, approximately 90% of our product volume was manufactured by us. For manufacture of some low volume products, we strategically partner with a select group of contract manufacturers that operate human food manufacturing facilities. 

Ingredients and Packaging: Our products are made with natural and fresh ingredients including meat, vegetables, fruits, whole grains, vitamins and minerals. We use high quality food grade plastic packaging materials. Over 70% of our ingredients are sourced locally from within a 175 mile radius of the Freshpet Kitchens, 97% are from North America and none are sourced from China. We maintain rigorous standards for ingredient quality and safety. By volume, our largest input, antibiotic-free fresh chicken, represents approximately 50% of total ingredients. In order to retain operating flexibility and negotiating leverage, we do not enter into exclusivity agreements or long term commitments with any of our suppliers. All of our suppliers are well-established companies that have the scale to support our growth. For every ingredient, we either use multiple suppliers or have identified alternative sources of supply that meet our quality and safety standards. 

Distribution: Outbound transportation from our facility is handled through a partnership with a leading human food manufacturer, which also warehouses and delivers our refrigerated products to grocery retail accounts across North America. This partnership is governed by a written agreement pursuant to which our products are stored and shipped on a cost-plus basis. As a result, as our volumes grow, we expect to be able to leverage our distribution costs. We use national and regional distributors to cover the mass, pet specialty and natural retail classes. Our agreements with other distributors are based on regional mutual exclusivity within each region for the fresh refrigerated pet category. 

Our Product Quality and Safety 

We go to great lengths to ensure product quality, consistency and safety from ingredient sourcing to finished product. Our company-owned manufacturing facility allows us to exercise significant control over production. Our quality assurance team includes nine professionals with significant experience in pet and human food production. 

Our production processes are designed to meet science-based quality standards with documented plans for Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points and Hazard Analysis Risk Based Preventive Control to monitor established production controls, calibrate instrume nts, record data and perform corrective actions. Our on-site laboratory has microbial and composition testing capabilities. Quality control approvals are based on a positive release strategy, wherein a batch can only be shipped when it passes control point record reviews and laboratory testing. At the end of each working day, a third shift consisting of a cleaning crew sanitizes all equipment that is in contact with food material. Before commencing production the next day, quality assurance professionals sw ab equipment to test for potential contaminants. 

Freshpet&#8217;s food safety program is certified at Safe Quality Food Level III, which is the highest standard determined under the Global Food Safety Initiative Benchmarks. We believe our systems and standards for product quality and safety can support our growth and ensure continued success in the market. 

Our Customers and Distributors 

We sell our products throughout North America, generating the vast majority of our sales in the United States. The strength of our business model makes us an attractive partner for leading blue-chip retailers, who we believe find that Freshpet grows the sales of their pet category, drives higher traffic, increases shopper frequency and delivers category-leading margins. Our Freshpet Fridge locations have been consistently increasing as we add new retail accounts and add stores in existing accounts. We are in over 15,000 stores and believe there is opportunity for us to install a Freshpet Fridge in at least 35,000 stores in North America. We sell our products through the following classes of retail: grocery, mass, club, pet specialty and natural. 

Our customers determine whether they wish to purchase our products either directly from us or through a third party distributor. In 2015, our largest distributor by net sales, McLane Company, Inc., which sells to three of our customers, including Wal-Mart and Target, accounted for 22% of our net sales. As a customer, Target accounted for 11% of our net sales in 2015.

The Freshpet Fridge 

We sell our products through a growing network of company-owned branded refrigerators, the Freshpet Fridges. Our Freshpet Fridges are typically four feet wide by seven feet high, and replace standard shelving in the pet aisle or an end-cap of a retail store. Our Freshpet Fridge designs are constantly evolving with all new models featuring prominent edge-lit LED headers, LED interior lighting, crisp black interiors, and frameless glass swing doors for aesthetics and easy access. We use state-of-the-art refrigeration technology and environmentally friendly refrigerants to minimize energy consumption and environmental impact. 

We design, produce, install and maintain the Freshpet Fridge through a combination of in-house resources and world-class partners. We source our Freshpet Fridges from three leading global commercial refrigerator manufacturers with whom we have a collaborative approach to refrigerator design and innovation. Once ordered by us, Freshpet Fridges are shipped to distribution centers for delivery and installation in retail stores. 

Installation into retail locations and ongoing maintenance of the Freshpet Fridge is coordinated by Freshpet and executed through leading third-party service providers. All of our Freshpet Fridges are protected by a manufacturer warranty for one to three years. Our refrigerators are designed to be highly reliable, and at any given time less than 1% of the network is out of service for maintenance. Moreover, to ensure quality, cleanliness and appropriate in-stock levels, we employ brokerage partners to conduct a physical audit of the Freshpet Fridge network on an ongoing basis, with photographic results of every Freshpet Fridge in the network transmitted back to Freshpet and reviewed by members of our sales team. 

We currently estimate less than 15 month cash-on-cash payback for the average Freshpet Fridge installation, calculated by comparing our total current costs for a refrigerator (including installation and maintenance) to our current margin on net revenues. We believe our attractive value proposition to retailers and pet parents will allow us to continue penetrating store locations of existing and new customers. The Freshpet Fridge provides a highly-visible merchandising platform, allows us to control how our brand is presented to consumers at point-of-sale and represents a significant point of differentiation from other pet food competitors. 

Marketing and Advertising 

Our marketing strategy is designed to educate consumers about the benefits of fresh refrigerated pet food and build awareness of the Freshpet brand. We deploy a broad set of marketing tools across television, digital and public relations to reach consumers through multiple touch points and increase product trials. 

Our network of over 15,000 branded Fres hpet Fridges in prominent locations within blue-chip retailers helps to introduce consumers to our brand and instantly distinguish Freshpet from traditionally merchandised pet food. We have effectively used national TV advertising to drive incremental cons umers to try Freshpet products. We expect to realize greater benefits from national TV advertising as we continue to grow the network of Freshpet store locations nationwide. More recently, we have expanded our online presence to better target consumers see king information on healthy pet food. We reach consumers across multiple digital and social media platforms including websites, blogs and online reviews, as well as with tailored messaging on popular digital hubs including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Ou r public relations strategy includes event marketing and the use of our Freshpet truck to create buzz among pet parents at high pet traffic areas. 

Our marketing strategy has allowed us to drive new consumers to our brand and develop a highly engaged community of users who actively advocate for Freshpet. 

Competition 

Pet food is a highly competitive industry. We compete with manufacturers of conventional pet food such as Mars, Nestl&#233; and Big Heart Pet Brands (part of The J.M. Smucker Company). We also compete with specialty and natural pet food manufacturers such as Colgate-Palmolive and Blue Buffalo. In addition, we compete with many regional niche brands in individual geographic markets. 

Given a North American retail landscape dominated by large retailers, with limited shelf space and a significant number of competing products, competitors actively support their brands through marketing, advertising, promotional spending and discounting. 

Competitive factors in the pet food industry include product quality, ingredients, brand awareness and loyalty, product variety, product packaging and design, reputation, price, advertising, promotion and nutritional claims. We believe that we compete effectively with respect to each of these factors. Moreover, our fresh, refrigerated product offering and secured shelf space in the form of the Freshpet Fridge offer significant advantages against competitors. 

Team Members 

As of December 31, 2015 we had 190 employees all of whom are located in the United States. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or by any collective bargaining arrangements with respect to his or her employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Our Corporate Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2004 and currently exist as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Plaza Drive, 1st Floor, Secaucus, New Jersey 07094. Our telephone number is (201) 520-4000.

Website Information

The address of our corporate website is www.freshpet.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, annual proxy statements and related proxy cards are made available on our website at the same time they are mailed to stockholders. Our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. Our website also provides access to reports filed by our directors, executive officers and certain significant shareholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, General Code of Ethics, Code of Ethics for Executive Officers and Principal Accounting Personnel and charters for the committees of our board of directors are available on our website as well as other shareholder communications. The information contained in or that can be accessed through our website does not constitute a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this report. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F

Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property 

We believe that our rights in our trademarks and service marks are important to our marketing efforts to develop brand recognition and differentiate our brand from our competitors and are a valuable part of our business. We own a number of trademarks and service marks that have been registered, or for which applications are pending, with the United States 

Patent and Trademark Office including, among others, Freshpet, Vital, Nature&#8217;s Fresh, Roasted Meals, Fresh Baked, Freshpet Dog Joy Treats and Dognation. 

We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has significantly contributed to our success to-date. We are continually developing new technology and enhancing proprietary technology related to our pet food, Freshpet Fridges and manufacturing operations. 

We also rely on unpatented proprietary expertise, recipes and formulations, continuing innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. 

Government Regulation 

Along with our brokers, distributors, and ingredients and packaging suppliers, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations in the United States by federal, state and local government authorities. In the United States, the federal agencies governing the manufacture, distribution and advertising of our products include, among others, the FTC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;), the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Under various statutes, these agencies, among other things, prescribe the requirements and establish the standards for quality and safety and regulate our marketing and advertising to consumers. Certain of these agencies, in certain circumstances, must not only approve our products, but also review the manufacturing processes and facilities used to produce these products before they can be marketed in the United States. We are also subject to the laws of Canada, including the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, as well as provincial and local regulations. 

We are subject to labor and employment laws, laws governing advertising, privacy laws, safety regulations and other laws, including consumer protection regulations that regulate retailers or govern the promotion and sale of merchandise. Our operations, and those of our distributors and suppliers, are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety matters. We monitor changes in these laws and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws. 

Information Systems 

We employ a comprehensive enterprise resource planning (ERP) system provided and supported by a leading global software partner. This system covers order entry, customer service, accounts payable, accounts receivable, purchasing, asset management and manufacturing. Our order management process is automated via Electronic Data Interchange with virtually all our customers, which feeds orders directly to our ERP platform. From time to time, we enhance and complement the system with additional software. In 2015, we expanded our ERP system with a Warehouse Management System, which will allow us to improve tracking and management of ingredients, streamline manufacturing and provide the ability to ship direct to customers. 

We backup data every hour and store a copy locally for immediate restoration if needed. All data is transmitted to a secure offsite cloud storage service daily for disaster recovery needs. We believe our systems infrastructure is scalable and can support our future growth.

