 Item 1. Business 

Industry Overview 

Our business plan is to acquire small and medium grocery stores in non-urban locales that are not directly served by large national supermarket chains.

The U.S. retail grocery market includes a variety of distribution channels, from small grocery shops and convenience stores to supermarkets, specialty and natural food stores, warehouse stores and supercenters. According to Willard Bishop's June 2015 publication, The Future of Food Retailing , the U.S. retail market for groceries and consumables was approximately $1.1135 trillion in 2013. We intend to operate in the traditional supermarket channel, which accounted for approximately 46.3% of the retail grocery market in 2014. Total grocery sales were over $547.4 billion in 2014, an increase of 4.7% from the previous year.

In The Future of Food Retailing, traditional supermarkets are defined as those offering a full line of groceries, meat and produce, with at least $2 million in annual sales, and no more than 15% of sales in general merchandise or health and beauty care. According to Willard Bishop's June 2015 publication, The Future of Food Retailing , the average traditional supermarket in the U.S. is approximately 52,200 square feet in size, carries 45,000 stock-keeping units (&#147;SKUs&#148;) and generates over $16 million in revenue each year. They typically carry anywhere from 15,000 to 60,000 SKUs, and may have a deli, bakery or pharmacy. In 2014, according to The Future of Food Retailing, there were 26,490 traditional supermarkets in the U.S. Traditional supermarkets have struggled to recover from the recession and continue to lose market share as consumers search for lower prices in the interest of reducing spending, or shift shopping trips to limited-assortment stores (which offer a limited number of SKUs), supercenters, and wholesale clubs. It is projected in The Future of Food Retailing that traditional supermarket sales as a percentage of total grocery sales will contract in future years, and market share will have dropped to 46.1% in 2019, from 46.3% in 2014. According to The Future of Food Retailing , average weekly sales in 2014 for a traditional supermarket was $335,599. 

The U.S. grocery industry, which is not immune to general economic downturns, has historically been characterized by low profit margins. The U.S. grocery industry is also susceptible to food inflation. It is predicted in The Future of Food Retailing that food inflation will average 2.5% over the next five years and that traditional supermarkets will not keep pace.

Some of the current trends in the grocery industry include:

Emphasis on Value - According to the Food Marketing Institute&#146;s report Grocery Shopper Trends 2012 , consumers reported that what matters most to them when choosing a primary store, aside from convenience, are lower prices in general and lower prices on specific items. With the economic downturn, consumers appear to be are adopting value-seeking habits. 

Increasing Focus on the Customer Shopping Experience - Supermarkets are focused on enhancing the consumer's shopping experience as a point of differentiation and being more responsive to consumer preferences through their consumer interactions and product offerings. 

Growing Importance of Prepared Foods - Prepared meal solutions have become an increasingly important offering by food retailers as consumers have reduced their spending on meals away from home in response to recent economic pressures. 

Increasing Private Label Offerings - Consumers have continued to turn to private label products as part of their focus on value. Supermarkets are increasingly developing and promoting private label brands to distinguish themselves from their competitors and promote customer loyalty, as well as to enhance margins. 

Focus on Perishables - A growing consumer focus on healthy eating has prompted food retailers to provide an enhanced offering of fresh foods and natural and organic products. Increased demand for perishables has led to additional supply, improving the distribution and selection of these products. 

Emphasis on Convenience - Over the last decade, convenience of store location and format has emerged as one of the central drivers of consumer shopping decisions. Contributing to this effect, high fuel prices have encouraged consumers to seek shopping locations in close proximity to their homes over long trips to more remote retailers. Other industry trends, such as increasing demand for prepared and perishable foods, reward convenient store locations with high frequency shopping patterns. 

Increased use of Technology - Consumers are increasingly using technology as part of their shopping experience. According to Nina Meijers in the December 18, 2014 edition of Food-Tech Connect, the development of new online platforms and applications, many of them mobile, have resulted in the introduction of many same-day delivery services for groceries. 

Increasing Online Grocery Sales - Online grocery sales continue to grow. According to Willard Bishop's June 2015 publication, The Future of Food Retailing , online grocery sales grew by 13.5% in 2014 to $24.5 billion, and are expected to grow at an annual rate of 12.1% through the next five years.

Focus on multicultural offerings - An increasingly culturally diverse customer population, coupled with a need to differentiate their product offerings from those of their competitors, has motivated some grocery stores to offer a wider variety of products. According to Zach Baliva in the January/February 2015 issue of the Hipanic Executive , experts predict the Hispanic food and beverage market to grow from $8 billion to $11 billion in the next two years alone, and salsa has topped ketchup as the nation&#146;s number one condiment.

Description of Business 

The Company 

We were incorporated on May 13, 2010 in the State of Delaware. We have no subsidiaries. The Company has not been the subject of any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings or any reclassification, merger or consolidation proceedings. 

Our independent auditors have indicated, in their report on our December 31, 2015 and 2014 financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A &#147;going concern&#148; opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets, or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result if we do not continue as a going concern. Therefore, you should not rely on our balance sheet as an indication of the amount of proceeds that would be available to satisfy claims of creditors, and potentially be available for distribution to shareholders, in the event of liquidation. The going concern consideration is based on the Company&#146;s absence of revenues to date. 

&#160;

Our principal offices are located at 216 S. Jefferson Street, Suite LL1, Chicago, Illinois 60661. Our telephone number is (312) 695-9637.

The original purpose of the Company was to acquire a portfolio of heavily discounted real estate properties in the Chicago metropolitan area. The Company abandoned its original business plan because of the absence of a sufficient number of suitable properties available for purchase at prices which would allow the business plan to succeed considering the state of the real estate market, challenges related to decreased consumer confidence and the weakened economic conditions in general. The Company has changed its focus and now plans to acquire small and medium-sized grocery stores that have a dominant presence in non-urban markets not directly served by large national supermarket chains, wholesale clubs or supercenters.

As of the date of this report, the Company has not yet acquired any grocery stores or commenced operations. The Company's primary activities since incorporation have been organizational in nature and related to the Company&#146;s formation and registration statement and development of its business plan. The Company has not generated any revenues from these activities.

The Company has no current plans, proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire any grocery stores. The Company has not identified any potential acquisition targets.

Business Strategy 

The Company plans to acquire small and medium-sized grocery stores that are the dominant presence in their non-urban markets. By acquiring stores that are situated in less competitive locales that are not directly served by large national supermarket chains, wholesale clubs and supercenters, the Company anticipates that it will be able to achieve financial returns that meet or exceed industry norms because stores in less competitive locales will be under less pressure to heavily discount their prices. 

The implementation of our business plan is subject to obtaining funding to hire personnel and begin acquiring grocery stores. We may obtain funding through a public or private offering of securities, commercial financing, loans from officers or directors or a combination of these means. We have not yet made plans to conduct a securities offering, obtain commercial financing or a private loan. We will not be able to begin implementing our business plan until we have secured financing to begin operations. Funds necessary to implement our business operations may not be available in amounts necessary or at all. As acquisitions occur, we anticipate that we will be able to fund expansion with the revenue generated from operations. In the meantime, if we are unable to secure sufficient funding to initiate our business plan, we will postpone the implementation of our business plan as currently developed or reduce or curtail operations until sufficient funding becomes available. 

The Company plans to acquire grocery stores that are approximately 15,000 to 20,000 square feet in size and generating $5 to $8 million in revenue each year. Ideally, the acquisitions will be clustered regionally, which will allow the Company to centralize certain operational functions, including purchasing and marketing. The centralization of these functions should provide the consolidated stores with the critical mass and leverage to demand enhanced service and financial concessions from its distributors and marketing vendors. The representative store will have had a long-standing presence in its community and a history of stable financial performance. Many of these stores will have been family owned and operated. The Company expects to acquire most of its grocery stores from owners looking for a financial exit strategy. The Company believes that there is not a robust market for the sale of such properties and that the lack of bids for such properties will allow it to acquire such grocery stores for little more than the value of their equipment and inventory. Ideally, the Company will acquire grocery stores from owners who will continue to manage the stores as employees of the Company. If the former owners elect not to manage the stores on behalf of the Company, the Company will either promote qualified new managers from the pool of existing employees of the grocery store or hire experienced managers from outside the Company

The Company will seek to drive additional customer traffic to its acquired grocery stores and expand their operating margins through the introduction of new products and services to those stores that lack them, including:

&#183;

Pharmaceutical services

&#183;

Floral departments 

&#183;

Gasoline and other automotive products

&#183;

Prepared foods

&#183;

Lottery service, where appropriate

&#183;

Alcoholic beverages (beer, wine and spirits), where appropriate

The Company &#146; s ability to add pharmacies and floral departments will be dependent upon its ability to hire qualified personnel and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Local regulations may restrict its ability to sell gasoline and other automotive products. 

Proposed Products to be Sold at Grocery Stores 

The Company&#146;s stores will sell non-perishable, perishable and non-food products. Most of the products are expected to be nationally and regionally advertised brands. Perishable product sales also typically generate higher gross margins than non-perishable products. The products will likely include the following categories:

&#183;

Grocery, frozen and dairy

&#183;

Produce

&#183;

Meat and seafood

&#183;

Bakery

&#183;

Deli, cheese and prepared foods

&#183;

Floral 

&#183;

Beer, wine and spirits

&#183;

Health and beauty care

Proposed Milestones to Implement Business Operations 

&#160;

The following milestones are based on the estimates made by management. The working capital requirements and the projected milestones are approximations and subject to adjustments. Our budget for the upcoming twelve months is based on implementing operations at a conservative level, which will be funded by revenue generated from operations (after acquisitions occur) or, in the meantime, public or private offering of securities, commercial financing, loans from officers or directors or a combination of these means. We have not yet made plans to conduct a securities offering or obtain commercial financing. Since the effective date of our registration statement, one of our major shareholders has loaned money to the Company to cover the costs incurred by the Company to maintain compliance with its SEC reporting requirements. Funds necessary to achieve our proposed milestones and implement our business operations may not be available in amounts necessary or at all. We will not be able to begin implementing our business plan until we have secured financing to begin operations. The unavailability of additional financing could prevent or delay implementation of the Company&#146;s business plan and may require the Company to curtail or terminate its operations. If we begin to generate profits, we will increase our marketing and sales activity accordingly. The costs associated with operation of the Company as a public company are included in our budget. Management will be responsible for the preparation of the required documents to keep the costs to a minimum. Subject to securing financing to commence operations, we plan to complete our milestones as follows:

0 to 3 Months 

The Company plans to recruit an experienced Chief Operating Officer with expertise in the acquisition and management of grocery stores. We expect to offer a base salary of $50,000 and incentive compensation (a combination of stock options and cash bonuses) tied to the overall profitability of the Company. The precise details of the incentive compensation and the targeted profitability that would trigger the payment of the incentive compensation have not yet been determined.

The Company will initially focus its acquisition efforts on acquiring stores in the Chicago metropolitan area. The Company expects to acquire most of its grocery stores from owners looking for a financial exit strategy. The Company believes that there is not a robust market for the sale of such properties and that the absence of competing bids will allow it to acquire grocery stores for little more than the value of their equipment and inventory. The Company will not open new grocery stores.

The Company anticipates that its acquisitions will be made with a combination of deferred payment, notes payable to the former owner(s) and equity. None of the Company&#146;s initial acquisitions will be made with cash. At this time it is impossible to predict with any degree of certainty the costs of any such acquisitions. Such acquisition costs will be dependent upon many factors which are currently unknown including, without limitation, the size of the store to be acquired, its historical financial results and whether the store is a stand-alone store or part of a grocery store chain.

Ideally, the Company will acquire grocery stores from owners who will continue to manage the store as employees of the Company. If the former owners elect not to manage the stores on behalf of the Company, the Company will either promote qualified new managers from the existing employees of the store or hire experienced managers from outside the Company.

The officers and directors of the Company have agreed to defer any compensation until the Company is cash flow positive.

The anticipated expenditures for the first three months of operation include the purchase of a computer, a printer and accounting software; compensation for a Chief Operating Officer; legal fees; part-time administrative personnel; and expenses incurred in the search for and investigation of potential acquisition opportunities.

4 to 6 Months 

Pending availability of funds, the Company expects to complete its initial acquisition of an operating grocery store during this period, at which time it is expected to begin to generate revenue. The Company expects to finance the acquisition with a combination of deferred compensation, notes payable to the former owner(s) and equity. The Company will not pay cash for any of the acquisitions that it makes during the early stages of operation. 

The Company will begin to assemble a network of grocery industry consultants to search for potential acquisitions. The compensation of the consultants will be directly tied to their ability to identify and close desirable acquisitions and the post-acquisition performance of those acquisitions.

The anticipated expenditures for this three-month period include: accounting and legal expenses associated with the Company&#146;s compliance with SEC reporting requirements; salary for a Chief Operating Officer; legal fees; part-time administrative personnel; marketing activities, and expenses incurred in the search for and investigation of potential acquisition opportunities.

7 to 9 Months 

The Company expects to make a second acquisition during this period. The anticipated expenditures for this three-month period include accounting and legal expenses associated with the Company&#146;s compliance with SEC reporting requirements; salary for a Chief Operating Officer, legal fees; full-time administrative personnel; marketing activities; and expenses incurred in the search for and investigation of potential acquisition opportunities.

10 to 12 Months 

The Company expects to make a third acquisition during this period. The anticipated expenditures for this three-month period include accounting and legal expenses associated with the Company&#146;s compliance with SEC reporting requirements; salary for a Chief Operating Officer; legal fees; full-time administrative personnel; full-time Purchasing Manager; marketing activities; and expenses incurred in the search for and investigation of potential acquisition opportunities.

Any line item amounts not expended completely will be held in reserve as working capital and subject to reallocation to other line item expenditures as required for ongoing operations.

All milestones are subject to securing financing to commence operations. The Company will undertake to achieve subsequent milestones only to the extent that sufficient funding is available. The Company does not have any commitments or arrangements to obtain any such funds, and there can be no assurance that required financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms, if at all. The unavailability of additional financing could prevent or delay the implementation of the Company&#146;s business plan and may require the Company to curtail or terminate its operations. If at any time during the first year of operations, the Company has not generated sufficient revenue or funds are otherwise unavailable to continue its business plan, it will temporarily defer equipment, personnel, marketing and development expenses until sufficient funds become available and in the meantime will expend only those funds as available and as required to maintain the existence of the Company. Such deferrals will delay implementation of the Company&#146;s business plan to the extent they are required.

The Company has no current plans, proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire any grocery stores. The Company has not identified any potential acquisition targets. 

Pricing 

By acquiring stores that are situated in less competitive locales that are not directly served by large national supermarket chains, wholesale clubs and supercenters, the Company anticipates that it will be under less pressure to heavily discount its prices.

Compliance with Governmental Regulation 

The Company&#146;s operations will be subject to regulation by a variety of governmental agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, local departments governing alcoholic beverage sales, and state and local health departments. The Company will work to ensure that its operations comply in all material respects with federal, state and local health, environmental and other laws and regulations. To the extent that pharmaceutical services are included in any grocery stores we acquire, our business will be subject to additional federal, state and local government laws and regulations application to the registration and regulation of pharmacies; applicable Medicare and Medicaid regulations; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA; the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the ACA); regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

Competition 

&#160;

Food retailing is a large, intensely competitive industry. Our future competition will include but not be limited to local, regional and national conventional and specialty supermarkets, warehouse membership clubs, online retailers, smaller specialty stores, farmers&#146; markets and restaurants, each of which will compete with us on the basis of convenience, store ambiance and experience, product selection, quality, customer service, price or a combination of these factors. 

Advertising and Marketing 

According to the Food Marketing Institute, the average grocery store spends approximately 1.5% of its total revenue on advertising and marketing. By acquiring stores in locales that are not subject to intense competition, the Company believes that its advertising and marketing expense will be substantially below the industry average. All of the Company&#146;s marketing dollars will be spent locally once it has acquired grocery stores and commenced operations. The Company&#146;s marketing strategy will feature a convenient shopping experience to customers with a focus on service and fresh perishables. The advertising will occasionally be focused primarily on the promotion of events rather than prices; for example, the individual stores may emphasize special holiday selections, new products, specialty items, services and recipes. The Company will use aggressive marketing programs to continuously cement its image as the local store providing a broad spectrum of national brands, private labels, local and non-food items at fair and competitive prices. 

The Company will primarily rely on print circulars as its advertising strategy. The Company will place advertisements in local newspapers and run radio and television commercials through local and affiliated station. It will also be an active participant in local events and community non-profit activities.

The Company will also consider the development of a frequent shopper program, which could provide discounts and rebates to its customers based on the volume of their purchases. According to the Food Marketing Institute, 51% of all grocery stores have frequent shopper programs.

Procurement 

Once it has commenced operations, the Company anticipates that it will buy most of its products including nationally branded and private label grocery products, perishable food products, non-food items and specialty grocery products through one or more regional or national food distributors that may include such companies as Nash-Finch and SUPERVALU. The Company may also purchase certain specialty products from vendors other than its primary distributors if those products are not available from its primary distributors. Distribution prices are generally based on market prices plus fee and freight basis, with the fee based on the type of commodity and quantity purchased. Freight costs are subject to the addition of fuel surcharges during periods of rising fuel costs. Food distributors generally offer rebates and discounts to their customers that are based on the yearly volume of product that is purchased from the distributor.

Some distributors offer enhanced services such as promotional, advertising and merchandising programs, installation of computerized ordering, receiving and scanning systems; retail equipment procurement assistance, providing contacts for accounting, budgeting and payroll services, consumer and market research, financial assistance primarily in connection with new store development or the upgrading and expansion of existing stores, securing existing grocery stores for sale or lease for possible sale or sublease to grocery store customers and internet services providing supply chain efficiencies. The Company intends to centralize its purchasing operations and retain just one primary distributor, which will allow it to use its enhanced purchasing power to maximize the discounts and rebates that are available to the Company.

Seasonality 

The grocery business is somewhat seasonal with sales tending to increase during the last quarter of the year due to the holiday season and related specialty merchandise.

Information Technology 

Once it commences operations, the Company will install a centralized operations and accounting software package to manage its individual stores. Such software systems are often provided at no charge to grocery stores by their distributors. The Company will be required to purchase the computer equipment and point-of-sale terminals on which the software will run. Distributors will supply to the Company periodic software updates for the software systems provided.

Intellectual Property 

The Company plans to rely on a combination of trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentially agreements and contractual provisions, to protect its proprietary technology and brands, as appropriate.

