 Item 1. Business Overview 

We are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company engaged in drug research and development to create new therapies for fibrotic disease and cancer. Our drug candidates are based on our method of targeting galectin proteins, which are key mediators of biologic and pathologic functions. We use naturally occurring, readily-available plant products as starting material in manufacturing processes to create proprietary complex carbohydrates with specific molecular weights and other pharmaceutical properties. These complex carbohydrate molecules are appropriately formulated into acceptable pharmaceutical formulations. Using these unique carbohydrate-based candidate compounds that largely bind and inhibit galectin proteins, particularly galectin-3, we are undertaking the focused pursuit of therapies for indications where galectins have a demonstrated role in the pathogenesis of a given disease. We focus on diseases with serious, life-threatening consequences to patients and those where current treatment options are limited. Our strategy is to establish and implement clinical development programs that add value to our business in the shortest period of time possible and to seek strategic partners when a program becomes advanced and requires significant additional resources. 

Our lead galectin-3 inhibitor is GR-MD-02, and has been demonstrated in preclinical models to reverse liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. GR-MD-02 has the potential to treat many diseases due to its involvement in multiple key biological pathways such as cell differentiation, cell growth, and apoptosis (cell death). Galectin Therapeutics Inc. is using this inhibitor to treat advanced liver fibrosis and liver cirrhosis in NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) patients. We have completed Phase 1 clinical studies and currently are engaged in two Phase 2 clinical studies in NASH patients with advanced fibrosis (NASH-FX) and NASH patients with cirrhosis (NASH-CX). Both disease states are progressive, currently not treatable and ultimately may result in liver failure which has poor prognosis and no effective, approved medical therapies other than liver transplant. Galectin-3 expression is highly increased in patients with liver fibrosis and liver cirrhosis. We believe that our galectin-3 inhibitor, by reducing galectin-3 at the cellular level, ultimately showing a strong anti-fibrotic potential may provide a novel treatment for various forms of liver fibrosis. 

We endeavor to leverage our scientific and product development expertise as well as established relationships with outside sources to achieve cost-effective and efficient drug development. These outside sources, amongst others, provide us with expertise in preclinical models, pharmaceutical development, toxicology, clinical trial operations, pharmaceutical manufacturing, sophisticated physical and chemical characterization, and commercial development. We also have established several collaborative scientific discovery programs with leading experts in carbohydrate chemistry and characterization. These discovery programs are generally aimed at the targeted development of new carbohydrate molecules which bind galectin proteins and offer alternative options to larger market segments in our primary disease indications. We also have established a discovery program aimed at the targeted development of small molecules (non-carbohydrate) which bind galectin proteins and may afford options for alternative means of drug delivery (e.g., oral) and as a result expand the potential uses of our compounds. We are pursuing a development pathway to clinical enhancement and commercialization for our lead compounds in immune enhancement for cancer therapy as well as in both liver fibrosis and fatty liver disease. All of our proposed products are presently in development, including pre-clinical and clinical trials. 

We were founded in July 2000 as Pro-Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation. On April 25, 2001, DTR-Med Pharma Corp. (&#147;DTR&#148;), which was incorporated in Nevada on January 26, 2001, entered into a stock exchange agreement with Pro-Pharmaceuticals, Inc., whereby DTR acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pro-Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On May 10, 2001, DTR changed its name to &#147;Pro- Pharmaceuticals, Inc.&#148; and on June 7, 2001, the Massachusetts corporation was merged into the Nevada corporation. On May 26, 2011, Pro-Pharmaceuticals, Inc. changed its name to &#147;Galectin Therapeutics Inc.&#148; In October, 2012, we moved our headquarters to a suburb of Atlanta, GA to be closer to a center of discovery collaboration while maintaining a laboratory operation in the Boston area. 

&#160; 

Our Drug Development Programs 

Galectins are a class of proteins that are made by many cells in the body. As a group, these proteins are able to bind to sugar molecules that are part of other proteins, glycoproteins, in and on the cells of our body. Galectin proteins act as a kind of molecular glue, bringing together molecules that have sugars on them. Galectin proteins, in particular galectin-3, are known to be markedly increased in a number of important diseases including inflammatory diseases, scarring of organs (e.g. liver, lung, kidney, and heart) and cancers of many kinds. The increase in galectin protein promotes the disease and is detrimental to the patient. Published data show that mice lacking the galectin-3 gene, and thus unable to produce galectin-3, are incapable of developing liver fibrosis in response to toxic insult to the liver and in fatty liver disease. 

We have one new chemical entity (NCE) in development, GR-MD-02, which has shown promise in preclinical and early clinical studies in treatment of fibrosis and in cancer therapy. Currently we are focusing on development of GR-MD-02 intended to be used in the treatment of liver fibrosis associated with fatty liver disease (NASH), moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, and in cancer therapy in combination with immune-system modifying agent(s). GR-MD-02 is a proprietary, patented compound derived from natural, readily available, plant-based starting materials, which, following chemical processing, exhibits the properties of binding to and inhibiting galectin-3 proteins. A second NCE, GM-CT-01 is a proprietary, patented compound that is made from a completely different starting source plant material and also binds and inhibits galectin proteins. Previously in clinical development for cancer indications, this compound continues to be explored in preclinical studies. 

Our product pipeline is shown below: 

&#160;

Indication 

&#160; Drug &#160; Status 

Fibrosis 

&#160; &#160; NASH with Advanced Fibrosis: NASH-CX trial and NASH-FX trial 

&#160; GR-MD-02 &#160; IND submitted January 2013. Results from the Phase 1 clinical trial were reported in 2014, with final results reported in January 2015. End of Phase 1 meeting held with FDA in 2014. Two Phase 2 clinical trials are being conducted. The NASH CX trial, is designed for patients with cirrhosis, and the NASH FX trial is designed for patients with advanced fibrosis but not cirrhosis. The NASH FX trial top line data is expected around end of Q3-2016 and the NASH CX trial top line data is expected around the end of 2017. Lung Fibrosis 

&#160; GR-MD-02 &#160; In pre-clinical development Kidney Fibrosis 

&#160; GR-MD-02 &#160; In pre-clinical development Cardiac and Vascular Fibrosis 

&#160; GR-MD-02 and GM-CT-01 &#160; In pre-clinical development Cancer Immunotherapy 

&#160; &#160; Melanoma 

&#160; GR-MD-02 &#160; Investigator IND submitted in December 2013. Phase 1B study in process. A second Phase 1B study is planned to begin by April 2016. Investigator IND for that study submitted in September 2015. Psoriasis 

&#160; &#160; Moderate to Severe Plaque Psoriasis 

&#160; GR-MD-02 &#160; IND submitted March 2015. A phase 2a trial in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients began in January 2016. Data is expected around Q3-2016. Fibrosis. GR-MD-02 is our lead product candidate for treatment of fibrotic disease. Our preclinical data show that GR-MD-02 has a significant therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis as shown in several relevant animal models. In addition, in NASH animal models GR-MD-02 has been shown to reduce liver fat, inflammation, and 

&#160; 

ballooning degeneration or death of liver cells. Therefore, we chose GR-MD-02 as the lead candidate in a development program targeted initially at fibrotic liver disease associated with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH, or fatty liver disease). In January 2013, an Investigational New Drug (&#147;IND&#148;) was submitted to the FDA with the goal of initiating a Phase 1 study in patients with NASH and advanced liver fibrosis to evaluate the human safety of GR-MD-02 and pharmacodynamics biomarkers of disease. On March 1, 2013, the FDA indicated we could proceed with a US Phase 1 clinical trial for GR-MD-02 with a development program aimed at obtaining support for a proposed indication of GR-MD-02 for treatment of NASH with advanced fibrosis. The Phase 1 trial was completed and demonstrated that GR-MD-02 up to 8 mg/Kg, i.v. was safe and well tolerated and the human pharmacokinetic data defined a drug dose for use in the planned Phase 2 trials. Additionally, there was evidence of a pharmacodynamic effect of GR-MD-02 at the 8 mg/kg dose with a decrease in alpha 2 macroglobulin, a serum marker of fibrotic activity, and a reduction in liver stiffness as determined by FibroScan &#174; . An &#147;End of Phase 1 Meeting&#148; was held with FDA which, amongst other items, provided guidance on the primary endpoint for the Phase 2 clinical trial. 

Additionally, an open label drug-drug interaction study was completed during the second quarter of 2015, with GR-MD-02 and it showed that with 8 mg/kg dose of GR-MD-02 and 2 mg/kg dose of midazolam there was no drug-drug interaction and no serious adverse events or drug-related adverse events were observed. This study was required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the primary objective was to determine if single or multiple intravenous (IV) doses of GR-MD-02 affect the pharmacokinetics (PK) of midazolam. The secondary objective was to assess the safety and tolerability of GR-MD-02 when administered concomitantly with midazolam. The lack of a drug interaction in this study enables Galectin to expand the number of patients eligible for its Phase 2 clinical trial. In addition, should GR-MD-02 be approved for marketing, the success of this study supports a broader patient population for the drug label. 

Our Phase 2 program in fibrotic disease consists of two separate human clinical trials. The first clinical trial is the NASH-CX study for patients with NASH with cirrhosis, which began enrolling in June 2015. This study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group Phase 2 trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of GR-MD-02 for the treatment of liver fibrosis and resultant portal hypertension in patients with NASH cirrhosis. A total of 156 patients at approximately 50 sites in the United States will be randomized to receive either 2 mg/kg of GR-MD-02, 8 mg/kg of GR-MD-02 or placebo, with 52 patients in each group. The primary endpoint is a reduction in change in hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG). Patients will receive an infusion every other week for one year, total of 26 infusions, and will be evaluated to determine the change in HVPG as compared with placebo. HVPG will be correlated with secondary endpoints of fibrosis on liver biopsy as well as with measurement of liver stiffness (FibroScan (R) ) and assessment of liver metabolism ( 13 C-methacetin breath test, Exalenz), which are non-invasive measures of the liver that may be used in future studies. Data readout is expected by the end of 2017. 

The second clinical trial is the NASH-FX for patients with NASH advanced fibrosis uses a variety of non-invasive fibrosis assessment technologies. The first patient in this 30 patient study is was consented in September 2015, and the study is designed for 15 patients receiving 8 mg/kg of GR-MD-02 and 15 receiving placebo to be treated. That study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of GR-MD-02 for a four month treatment period of bi-weekly infusions of GR-MD-02 on non-invasive measures on liver stiffness as assessed imaging of liver fibrosis using multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (LiverMultiScan (R) , Perspectum Diagnostics), as the primary endpoint, as well as magnetic resonance-elastography and FibroScan score, as secondary endpoints. Top-line data is expected to be available in the third quarter of 2016. 

Our drug candidate provides a promising new approach for the therapy of fibrotic diseases, and liver fibrosis in particular. Fibrosis is the formation of excess connective tissue (collagen and other proteins plus cellular elements such as myofibroblasts) in response to damage, inflammation or repair. When the fibrotic tissue becomes confluent, it obliterates the cellular architecture, leading to scarring and dysfunction of the underlying organ. Given galectin-3&#146;s broad biological functionality, it has been demonstrated to be involved in cancer, inflammation and fibrosis, heart disease, renal disease and stroke. We have further demonstrated the broad 

&#160; 

applicability of the actions of our galectin-3 inhibitor&#146;s biological effect in ameliorating fibrosis involving lung, kidney and cardiac tissues in a variety of animal models. 

The focus and goal of the therapeutic program is to stop the progression of and reverse the fibrosis in the liver and, thereby improve liver function and prevent the development of complications of fibrosis/cirrhosis and liver-related mortality in patients. 

Cancer Immunotherapy. We believe there is potential for galectin inhibition to play a key role in the burgeoning area of cancer immunotherapy. For example, there have been several recent approvals of drugs that enhance a patient&#146;s immune system to fight cancer. With many additional vaccines and immune stimulatory agents in development, industry analysts forecast that this market could generate over $35 billion in sales over the next 10 years. It is our goal to use a galectin inhibitor to enhance the immune system function to fight cancer in a way that complements other approaches to this type of therapy. Our drug candidates provide a promising new therapeutic approach to enhance the activity of the immune system against cancer cells. Preclinical studies have indicated that GR-MD-02 enhances the immune response to cancer cells, increased tumor shrinkage and enhanced survival in immune competent mice with prostate, breast, melanoma and sarcoma cancers when combined with one of the immune checkpoint inhibitors, anti-CTLA-4 or anti-PD-1. These preclinical data led to the filing of an Investigator-sponsored IND and the initiation of a study of GR-MD-02 in combination with Yervoy &#174; (ipilimumab) in a Phase 1B study of patients with metastatic melanoma. This study is being conducted under the sponsorship of Providence Portland Medical Center&#146;s Earle A. Chiles Research Institute (EACRI). A study with Keytruda and GRMD-02 is conducted by EACRI is expected to begin enrolling by April 2016. 

We believe the mechanism of action for GR-MD-02 is based upon interaction with, and inhibition of, galectin proteins, particularly galectin-3, which are expressed at high levels in certain pathological states including inflammation, fibrosis and cancer. While GR-MD-02 is capable of binding to multiple galectin proteins, we believe that it has the greatest affinity for galectin-3, the most prominent galectin implicated in pathological processes. Blocking galectin in cancer and liver fibrosis has specific salutary effects on the disease process, as discussed below. 

Psoriasis. During our Phase 1 NASH fibrosis trial with GR-MD-02, a clinical effect on plaque psoriasis was observed in a NASH patient who also had this disease. This patient had marked improvement in her psoriasis, with improvement beginning after the third infusion. She reported that her psoriasis was &#147;completely gone&#148; and her skin was &#147;normal&#148; after the fourth infusion. Her skin remained normal for 17 months after the final infusion of study drug. The patient is convinced that the improvement in her psoriasis is related to the study drug. 

This serendipitous finding, combined with galectin-3 protein being markedly upregulated in the capillary epithelia (small blood vessels) of the psoriatic dermis (plaque lesions), led to a phase 2a trial in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. GR-MD-02 inhibition of galectin-3 may attenuate capillary changes in the psoriatic dermis and inflammatory recruitment, perhaps explaining the improvements observed in the NASH fibrosis trial patient. In this open-label, unblinded trial (no placebo, all patients knowingly receive active drug), 10 patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis are administered GR-MD-02 every two weeks for 12 weeks. We anticipate top line data for this trial by the end of the third quarter of 2016. 

Liver Fibrosis: New Approach for a Significant Unmet Medical Need 

When an internal organ is exposed to chronic disease one of the responses is that scar tissue is laid down in the organ (this process is called fibrosis). The longer the disease affects the organ, the more fibrous tissue is deposited and this ultimately results in the failure of the organ. This chronic fibrosis of organs may occur in the liver, lung, kidney, and heart, as well as others and, as a result, fibrosis of organs has been estimated to account for as much as 45% of all mortality in the United States. Scientific findings during the last few years indicate that the galectin-3 protein is critically important in this fibrotic process in multiple organs. 

&#160; 

In the liver, fibrosis is the end result of multiple inflammatory conditions and infections. Progressive liver fibrosis leads to cirrhosis, which results in reduction of liver function, multiple medical complications and ultimately death. It is estimated that 1-2 million patients have cirrhosis in the United States with close to 50,000 losing their lives yearly. Only a fraction of patients&#146; lives, approximately 6,200 per year, are saved by liver transplantation at a cost of approximately $350,000 per transplantation. One condition in particular that frequently leads to cirrhosis is non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, a liver disease characterized by the accumulation of fat in the liver with associated inflammation and fibrosis, which can lead to end-stage cirrhosis requiring liver transplantation. The National Institute of Health estimates that 9 to 15 million Americans are affected by NASH, and other sources suggest it may be as many as 30 million people have NASH, and forecasts that the number of Americans affected by this disease is growing due to obesity and diabetes, with the potential to become the leading cause of liver cirrhosis and liver transplantation in the future. Liver transplantation is currently the only therapeutic approach to NASH or other forms of liver fibrosis as, to the best of our knowledge, there are no drug therapies on the market. Organ transplantation is a difficult, risky and costly procedure as organ availability is scarce and there is the risk of developing cirrhosis in the transplanted liver from the same disease that damaged the patient&#146;s original liver and therefore, there is a great need for other therapeutic options. All diseases that affect the liver (viral hepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, and fatty liver as examples) lead to the development of scarring of the liver. 

The primary focus of the Company is to use galectin inhibitors to block galectin-3 and treat organ scarring or fibrosis in the liver. There are no approved therapies for treatment of liver fibrosis. We believe that our drug candidates have the potential to treat NASH and other forms of liver fibrosis. Scientific evidence suggests that galectin-3 is essential for the development of liver fibrosis in animals. Published data show that mice lacking the galectin-3 gene, and thus unable to produce galectin-3, are essentially incapable of developing liver fibrosis in response to toxic insult to the liver and in fatty liver disease. Moreover, mice that do not have the galectin-3 gene are resistant to lung and kidney fibrosis. These published data show that galectin-3 is a critical protein for the development of organ fibrosis. Our drugs, based on experiments in well characterized animal models, are also potentially useful in scarring or fibrosis of other organs such as lung and kidney which expands the possibilities for future therapeutic indications. 

We have evaluated the ability of GR-MD-02 to block galectin-3 in animal models of liver fibrosis, the conclusions of which yielded positive results. Our pre-clinical data show that GR-MD-02 may have a therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis as shown in several relevant animal models. Therefore, we chose GR-MD-02 as the lead candidate in a development program targeted initially at fibrotic liver disease associated with NASH. 

We evaluated GR-MD-02 in pre-clinical toxicology and pharmacology studies during 2013 and filed an IND with the FDA in January 2013 for initiating human studies in patients with NASH. In February 2013 we entered into an agreement with CTI Clinical Trial Services to assist with the design, development and conduct of one or more clinical research studies, specifically for services with respect to our Phase 1 clinical trials to evaluate safety of GR-MD-02 in patients with NASH. The FDA notified us in March 2013 that we may proceed with a Phase 1 clinical trial for patients with NASH and we began enrolling patients in the Phase 1 clinical trial in the third quarter of 2013. In August 2013, GR-MD-02 was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for NASH with hepatic fibrosis, commonly known as fatty liver disease with advanced fibrosis. In January 2014, we completed the enrollment of the first cohort of patients in the Phase 1 trial with no serious adverse events being reported. We reported initial safety and tolerability results from the first cohort of patients on June 30, 2014. The second cohort of this Phase 1 trial began and enrollment was completed in April 2014. In July 2014, we reported the results from the second cohort of patients. Enrollment of the third cohort of Phase 1 began in July 2014 with interim results presented in November 2014 with the final report on cohort 3 presented in January 2015. The results of the Phase 1 study demonstrate that (i) GR-MD-02 was safe and well tolerated by patients with advanced NASH liver fibrosis after IV administration of four doses of 2 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg and 8mg/kg lean body weight, (ii) Pharmacokinetics revealed drug exposure in humans at the 8 mg/kg dose that was equivalent to the upper range of the targeted therapeutic dose determined from effective doses in NASH animal models, (iii) Disease Serum Marker Effect showed there was a statistically significant, dose-dependent reduction in 

&#160; 

FibroTest &#174; scores due to a statistically significant reduction in alpha-2 macroglobulin (A2M) serum levels, and (iv) Liver Stiffness Effect, as measured by FibroScan &#174; showed that there was a signal of reduced liver stiffness in patients receiving GR-MD-02. The reduction seen in A2M does not necessarily mean fibrosis got better in this short study, but does suggest changes in the fibrogenic process that might lead to an improvement in fibrosis with longer-term therapy. These Phase 1 results in NASH patients with advanced fibrosis, in addition to completion of further toxicology and drug-drug interaction studies provide a firm foundation for entry into a Phase 2 development program (described above). 

GR-MD-02 is a proprietary, patented galactoarabino-rhamnogalacturonan polysaccharide polymer that is comprised predominantly of galacturonic acid, galactose, arabinose, rhamnose, and smaller amounts of other sugars. Structural studies have shown that GR-MD-02 binds to galectin-1 and to galectin-3 with binding affinity to galectin-3 being significantly greater than binding to galectin-1. With respect to GR-MD-02, we currently have a number of issued US patents including one composition of matter patent, one method of manufacture patent, one method of use patient in patients with NASH, one method of use patent in patients with liver fibrosis, and one method of use patent in patients with diabetic kidney disease. Additional patent applications are pending with respect to, amongst other uses, cancer immunotherapy, lung fibrotic disease, and inflammatory disease associated with increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase. Patents have also been granted with respect to liver fibrosis, NASH, and liver fibrosis in combination with other therapeutic agents. Compounds for subcutaneous administration and oral delivery are currently under pre-clinical development. 

Galectin Inhibition in Cancer Therapy 

We believe the potential exists for galectin inhibition to play an important role in cancer therapy. Galectin proteins, particularly galectin-1 and galectin-3, have been shown to be highly expressed in the majority of cancers and have multiple roles in promoting cancer progression, including tumor cell invasion, metastasis, angiogenesis, and tumor evasion of the immune system. 

The role of galectins in cancer immunotherapy can be understood through the &#147;Galectin Effect&#148;, a recent discovery of how tumors avoid the body&#146;s own immune system, i.e., the tumors secrete galectin proteins that block the body&#146;s efforts to fight tumors. Our current program to block the &#147;Galectin Effect&#148; is based on the research of Dr. Pierre van der Bruggen (of the Ludwig Institute of Cancer Research in Brussels, Belgium), demonstrating that galectin-3, which is produced by the vast majority of human cancers, binds to and blocks the actions of tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes, the major immune cell in the body&#146;s defense against cancers. In addition, Dr. Will Redmond of the Earl Chiles Cancer Research Institute in Portland Oregon has shown that our galectin inhibitors can enhance the anti-tumor immunogenic effect of other immunotherapies based on targeting lymphocyte checkpoints such as CTLA4. Based on these results, we believe that the body&#146;s immune cells may be unable to attack and kill tumor cells in the presence of galectins. Using this approach, the mechanism of action for our drugs seeks to block galectins and, in turn, restore the ability of the T-lymphocytes to kill tumor cells. 

The Company supported preclinical studies led by tumor immunology expert William L. Redmond, Ph.D., of the Providence Portland Medical Center&#146;s Earle A. Chiles Research Institute (EACRI). The preclinical study found that GR-MD-02 increased tumor shrinkage and enhanced survival in immune competent mice with prostate and breast cancers when combined with one of the immune checkpoint inhibitors, anti-CTLA-4 or anti-PD-1. These findings suggest a role for GR-MD-02 in cancer immunotherapy. These preclinical observations by Dr Redmond provided scientific rationale for proceeding and lead to the filing by Providence Portland Medical Center of an Investigator-sponsored IND to conduct a Phase 1B study to determine if GR-MD-02 enhances the probability of melanoma response with ipilimumab by inducing proliferation, activation and memory function of CD8+ T cells in human patients. The company has licensed the underlying invention from Providence Portland Medical Center. This study represents a novel approach for patients with metastatic melanoma. The IND was approved by FDA in February 2014. This study is being conducted under the sponsorship of Providence Portland Medical Center&#146;s Earle A. Chiles Research Institute (EACRI) and is being supported by the Company. 

&#160; 

The study employs a dose escalation of GR-MD-02 in conjunction with the standard therapeutic dose of ipilimumab in patients with advanced melanoma for whom ipilimumab would be considered standard of care. In addition to monitoring for toxicity and clinical response by irRECIST criteria on imaging tests, blood samples will be obtained to assess immunologic measures relevant to galectin biology and ipilimumab T-cell check-point inhibition. Galectin Therapeutics is providing its proprietary compound GR-MD-02 to EACRI researchers, as well as supply researchers with supporting analysis of the pharmacokinetics of GR-MD-02 and the right to reference the Company&#146;s open IND on GR-MD-02. To date the first two dosing groups have been completed without serious adverse events which were determined to be related to GR-MD-02. The third dosing group is now enrolling. 

Similar to the agreement set forth for the ipilimumab (Yervoy &#174; )Phase 1B study, Providence Portland Medical Center submitted an IND in September 2015 to conduct a Phase 1B study of GR-MD-02 and pembrolizumab (Keytruda &#174; ) in patients with metastatic melanoma. The combination of GR-MD-02 and an anti-PD1 (pembrolizumab) has been shown to enhance T-cell activation, memory, and effector function, and promote better antitumor responses in multiple mouse studies. The study will test the hypothesis that galectin-3 antagonism using GR-MD-02 with enhance the probability of melanoma response using penbrolizumab in patients by inducing proliferation, activation and memory function of CD8+ T cells that recognize melanoma antigens. Similar to the ipilimumab study, the study employs a dose escalation of GR-MD-02 in conjunction with the standard therapeutic dose of pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic melanoma who have had progression of their melanoma after ipilimumab and/or BRAF targeted therapy when a BRAF mutation is present. In addition to monitoring for toxicity and clinical response, blood and tumor samples will be obtained to assess immunologic measures relevant to galectin biology and pembrolizumab T-cell checkpoint inhibition. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

Our development and commercial viability, and ultimately our competitiveness, depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contract restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technologies. We seek to limit disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees, consultants, and any third parties with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements and by restricting access to that information. 

In August 2015, we received a notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for patent application number 13/726,900, titled &#147;Galactose-pronged polysaccharides in a formulation for antifibrotic therapies.&#148; This patent extends coverage of the Company&#146;s pectin-derived compounds (including broad molecular weight ranges and other sources of pectin) to include treatment of chronic kidney disease associated with the development of fibrosis, established kidney fibrosis, chronic lung disease associated with the development of fibrosis and established lung fibrosis. Claims in this patent include administering pectin-derived compound parenterally to a patient having at least one of the four aforementioned diseases where the established fibrosis or progression of the fibrosis or cirrhosis is inhibited or slowed down. Additional specific claims encompass deriving the compound from citrus pectin, apple pectin, soybean hull pectin or sugar beet pectin with a molecular weight between 2 kDa and 400kDa. Also covered is the step of administering the modified galacto-rhamnogalacturonan compound in an admixture with a therapeutic agent, where the agent is an antifibrotic compound 

In August 2014, we received a notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for patent application number 13/573,442 titled &#147;Composition of Novel Carbohydrate Drug for Treatment of Human Diseases.&#148; The patent covers composition and chemical structural claims for compounds that includes the Company&#146;s lead galectin inhibitor compound GR-MD-02 and will expire in December 2031. Claims include multiple routes of administration, including intravenous, subcutaneous and oral. The application also covers therapeutic formulations for use in the treatment of NASH (fatty liver disease), cancer and fibrotic, inflammatory and autoimmune disorders in which galectin proteins are involved, at least in part, in the pathogenesis. 

&#160; 

Additional specific claims encompass liver fibrosis, kidney fibrosis, lung fibrosis or heart fibrosis. The patent, assigned U.S. Patent No. 8,871,925, was issued October 28, 2014. 

In May 2014, we received notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for patent application number 13/998,197 titled &#147;Galactose-Pronged Carbohydrate Compounds for the Treatment of Diabetic Nephropathy and Associated Disorders.&#148; The patent covers both composition claim for and uses of the Company&#146;s carbohydrate-based galectin inhibitor compound GR-MD-02 in patients with diabetic nephropathy, a type of progressive kidney disease that occurs in individuals with diabetes. Diabetic nephropathy is the major cause for chronic renal failure in the United States. The patent, assigned U.S. Patent No. 8,828,971, was issued September 9, 2014. 

In February 2014, we received notice of issuance that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 8,658,787 to the Company for its application titled &#147;Galacto-rhamnogalacturonate compositions for the treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.&#148; The patent covers the Company&#146;s carbohydrate-based galectin inhibitor compound GR-MD-02 for use in patients with fatty liver disease with or without fibrosis or cirrhosis, providing patent protection through 2031. The major claims are for methods of obtaining galectin inhibitor compounds, obtaining a composition for parenteral or enteral administration in an acceptable pharmaceutical carrier and administering to a subject having at least one of the following: fatty liver, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, non-alcoholic hepatitis with liver fibrosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with cirrhosis, or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The use covers reversing or slowing the progression of disease activity or medical consequences of the disease. Applications are pending in multiple countries to extend patent protection globally. 

In January 2014, we received a notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for Patent Application Number 13/550,962 titled &#147;Galactose-Pronged Polysaccharides in a Formulation for Anti-fibrotic Therapies.&#148; The patent covers both composition claim for and uses of the Company&#146;s carbohydrate-based galectin inhibitor compound GR-MD-02 for use in patients with liver fibrosis in combination with other potential therapeutic agents. The patent covers use of GR-MD-02 with agents directed at multiple targets, some of which are currently in clinical development for fibrotic disorders including monoclonal antibodies to connective tissue growth factor, integrins, and TGF-&#223;1. The patent, assigned U.S. Patent No. 8,722,645, was issued May 13, 2014. 

In July 2012, we received a notice of issuance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the U.S. Patent number 8,236,780 issued on August 7, 2013 titled &#147;Galactose-prolonged polysaccharides in a formulation for antifibrotic therapies&#148;. This methods patent covers key methods of derivation and use for our carbohydrate-based galectin inhibitor compound for use in patients with chronic liver disease associated with the development of fibrosis, established liver fibrosis or end-stage scarring, or cirrhosis. The major claim is for a method of obtaining a galacto-rhamnogalacturan compound from an apple pectin, obtaining a composition for parenteral administration the galacto-rhamnogalacturonan compound in an acceptable pharmaceutical carrier and administering to a subject having at least one of the following: chronic liver disease associated with the development of fibrosis, established liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. The use covers inhibiting or slowing the progression of fibrosis. GR-MD-02 is covered by this patent and it provides opportunities for development of additional compounds in the class. 

As of January 31, 2016, we held 14 granted U.S. patents, 15 foreign granted patents (Japan, E.U., New Zealand, and Australia), 56 international patent applications, and 5 U.S. patent applications. Many of our patents and patent applications cover composition of matter for complex carbohydrate drugs and methods of use for reducing toxicity and enhancing chemotherapeutic drugs by co-administering a polysaccharide with a chemotherapeutic agent or for use in treatment of fibrosis. The scheduled expiration dates of our United States patents span from 2020 to 2033. We have corresponding patent applications pending in Europe, Israel, Australia and Brazil. Additionally, we have patent applications in other areas to utilize our carbohydrate-based compounds to treat disease other than cancer. See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#148;. Our competitive position, in part, is contingent upon protection of our intellectual property. 

&#160; 

Research 

Our primary focus is on the design and testing of agents which target galectins in various in vitro and in vivo systems and which demonstrate efficacy in treatment of experimentally induced fibrosis or enhance immune system responsiveness in various tissues and in live animal models. We contract with independent laboratories and other facilities to conduct our research, which is designed, evaluated and managed by our scientists. While we conduct in house research related to our compounds at SBH laboratories in Massachusetts, we do not anticipate building additional in-house research or development facilities or hiring staff other than for purposes of designing and managing our out-sourced research. 

As we develop products eligible for clinical trials, we contract with independent parties to assist in the design of the clinical trial protocols, arrange for and monitor the clinical trials, collect data and analyze data. In addition, certain clinical trials for our products may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies and will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Our dependence on independent parties and clinical sites involves risks including reduced control over the timing and other aspects of our clinical trials. 

In February 2013, the Company established a collaborative drug discovery program with Dr. Geert-Jan Boons&#146; (&#147;Dr. Boons&#148;) laboratory located in the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center at the University of Georgia. This on-going program is focused on the discovery of new carbohydrate molecules that can be used in the therapy of diseases where galectin proteins play a major role, including cancer, and inflammatory and fibrotic disorders. The aim of this program is to develop a pipeline of drugs that can target galectins. This is an important goal as follow-on compounds for our drugs currently in development and to extend the potential indications and routes of administration. The Complex Carbohydrate Research Center is a world-class program and Dr. Boons is a world renowned and pre-eminent carbohydrate chemist. 

In September, 2014, the Company established a collaborative research program with Dr. William Redmonds&#146; laboratory located at the Providence Portland Medical Center, Portland, Oregon. This program focuses on combination immunotherapy plus galectin inhibition to augment tumor immunogenicity. 

During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our expenditures for research and development were $13.1 million, $8.4 million, and $5.7 million, respectively. We expense all research and development costs as they are incurred. 

In January, 2014 we created, with SBH Sciences, Inc. (Natick, Ma), Galectin Sciences, LLC, a collaborative joint venture to research and develop small organic molecule inhibitors of galectin-3 for oral administration. 

Using computer molecular modeling techniques coupled with in vitro screening of a variety of compound libraries, SBH Sciences had identified several small organic molecules with promising galectin-3 inhibitory activity in vitro . Galectin Sciences LLC will further develop these unique organic molecule inhibitors of galectin-3 as drug candidates as well as develop additional candidates. Galectin Sciences LLC will build on the scientific body of knowledge amassed by SBH Sciences, coupled with Galectin Therapeutics&#146; knowledge and expertise of galectins&#146; pathological role and mechanism of action in inflammation, fibrosis and many cancers. The long-term goal of this effort is to identify and develop drug candidates that are highly specific galectin inhibitors which may be formulated for oral administration. The intermediate term goal is the development of small molecule inhibitors of galectin-3 which exhibit activity in in vivo preclinical disease models of fibrosis and cancer in which galectins play a key role. 

Because, increased levels of galectin proteins have been implicated in a very large number of inflammatory, fibrotic and neoplastic diseases; the discovery and development of orally active galectin inhibitors would be a major step towards expanded treatment approaches for these disorders. This early drug discovery effort may lead to drugs that would expand our pipeline as follow on compounds to our first in class galectin inhibitors, GR-MD-02 and GM-CT-01. 

&#160; 

Manufacturing and Marketing 

We are a development stage Company at this time and do not intend to establish internal facilities for the manufacture of our products for clinical or commercial production. To have our products manufactured, we have developed and will continue to develop relationships with third-parties that have established pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities and expertise. We are not a party to any long-term agreement with any of our suppliers and, accordingly, we have our products manufactured on a purchase-order basis from one of two primary well-known and established pharmaceutical suppliers that meeting FDA requirements. 

Because our products are in the development stage, we have not created a sales and marketing staff to commercialize pharmaceutical products. If we develop products eligible for commercial sale, we will need to develop a sales and marketing capability or rely on third parties such as licensees, collaborators, joint venture partners or independent distributors to market and sell those products. Our dependence on third-party manufacturers and marketers will involve risks relating to our reduced control, and other risks including those discussed in &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to our Company &#151; There are risks associated with reliance on third parties for manufacturing, marketing, sales, managed care and distribution infrastructure channels.&#148; 

Competition 

Many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new technologies for the treatment of cancer and other diseases. Technologies such as monoclonal antibodies could be competitive with our galectin therapeutic platforms. Other companies are trying to improve the therapeutic profile of widely used protein-based drugs. While these companies may broaden the market for our products they may also provide competitive alternatives to our products. We expect increased competition in the area of galectins will be fueled by a nearly exponential increase in the publication rate of research papers on galectins. 

See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to Our Company &#151; We face intense competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries&#148; for additional discussion related to our current and potential competition. 

Government Regulation 

The research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution, and marketing, among other things, of our products are extensively regulated by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The FDA regulates drugs under the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and its implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending New Drug Applications (&#147;NDAs&#148;), warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. 

Drug Approval Process 

Drugs may not be marketed in the U.S. until the FDA has approved them. The steps required before a drug may be marketed in the U.S. include: 

&#160;

&#160; 1. Pre-clinical laboratory tests, animal studies, and formulation studies, &#160;

&#160; 2. Submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin, &#160;

&#160; 3. Adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each indication, &#160;

&#160; 4. Submission to the FDA of a NDA, &#160;

&#160; 5. Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities, at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing procedures (&#147;cGMP&#148;) established by the FDA, &#160; 

&#160; 6. FDA review and approval of the NDA, and &#160;

&#160; 7. FDA review and approval of a trademark used in connection with a pharmaceutical. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity, and formulation, as well as numerous in vitro and in vivo animal studies. The results of the pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin and the Company must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. There is no certainty that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators and constant oversight by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Each trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent Institutional Review Board (&#147;IRB&#148;), before it can begin. Study subjects must sign an informed consent form before participating in a clinical trial. Phase 1 usually involves the initial introduction of the investigational drug into patients to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance, pharmacodynamics, and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to (i) evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage; (ii) identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and (iii) evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for specific indications. Phase 3 trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and test further for safety by using the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population. There is no assurance that these trials will be completed within a specified period of time, if at all. 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the pre-clinical studies and of the clinical studies, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the drug, are submitted to the FDA in an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. Before approving an NDA, the FDA usually will inspect the facilities at which the drug is manufactured, and will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMP is satisfactory. If the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities as acceptable, the FDA will generally issue an approval letter. If the FDA evaluates the NDA submission or the manufacturing facilities as not acceptable, the FDA will generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. Even if an applicant submits the requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the NDA does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and there is no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. After approval, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. 

See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Products &#151; We will need regulatory approvals to commercialize our products&#148; for additional discussion of regulatory risks related to our drug development program. 

FDA Priority Review 

FDA procedures provide for priority review of an NDA submitted for drugs that, compared to currently marketed products, offer a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of a disease. NDAs that are granted priority review are acted upon more quickly than NDAs given standard review. If we were to seek priority review, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will grant priority review status, that priority review status will affect the time of review, or that the FDA will approve the NDA submitted for any of our product candidates, whether or not priority review status is granted. 

&#160; 

Post-Approval Requirements 

If FDA approval of one or more of our products is obtained, we will be required to comply with a number of post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approved NDA are required to report certain adverse reactions to the FDA and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;) after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. In addition, discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Also, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development. 

Regulation Outside the United States 

Before our products can be marketed outside of the United States, they are subject to regulatory approval similar to that required in the United States, although the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. No action can be taken to market any product in a country until an appropriate application has been approved by the regulatory authorities in that country. The current approval process varies from country to country, and the time spent in gaining approval varies from that required for FDA approval. In certain countries, the sales price of a product must also be approved. The pricing review period often begins after market approval is granted. No assurance can be given that even if a product is approved by a regulatory authority, satisfactory prices will be approved for such product. 

Environmental Regulation 

Pharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies must comply with laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. We do not anticipate building in-house research, development or manufacturing facilities, and, accordingly, do not expect to have to comply directly with environmental regulation. However, our contractors and others conducting research, development or manufacturing activities for us may be required to incur significant compliance cost, and this could in turn could increase our expense or delay our completion of research or manufacturing programs. 

Employees 

We currently have seven full-time employees, four of whom are involved primarily in management of our pre-clinical research and development and clinical trials and three who were involved primarily in management and administration of our Company. We also utilize contractors who provide product development, manufacture, analytical testing and clinical trial support. 

&#160;

