 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Background 

Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. (&#147;Global&#148; or &#147;we&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) was organized for the purpose of investing in real estate related to the long-term care industry. Prior to the Company changing its name to Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. on September 30, 2013, the Company was known as Global Casinos, Inc. Global Casinos, Inc. operated two gaming casinos which were split-off and sold on September 30, 2013. Simultaneous with the split-off and sale of the gaming operations, the Company acquired West Paces Ferry Healthcare REIT, Inc. (WPF). We plan to elect to be treated as a real estate investment trust (REIT) in the future; however, we do not intend to make that election for the 2015 fiscal year.

We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate, and provide financing to healthcare providers. Our portfolio will be comprised of investments in the following five healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) life science, (iii) medical office, (iv) post-acute/skilled nursing and (v) hospital. We will make investments within our healthcare segments using the following five investment products: (i) properties under lease, (ii) debt investments, (iii) developments and redevelopments, (iv) investment management and (v) the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (&#147;RIDEA&#148;), which represents investments in senior housing operations utilizing the structure permitted by RIDEA.

The delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the following:

&#183;

Compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; 

&#183;

Specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and 

&#183;

Ongoing consolidation of a fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

Our Properties 

Acquisition of West Paces Ferry Healthcare REIT, Inc. (WPF) 

On September 30, 2013, Global acquired all of the outstanding common stock of WPF in consideration of $100. WPF owns a 65% membership interest in Dodge NH, LLC, which owns a skilled nursing facility located in Eastman, Georgia. 

Concurrently with the consummation of the split-off of gaming operations and the WPF acquisition, the Company&#146;s directors and executive officers were reconstituted.

Acquisition of Middle Georgia Nursing Home 

Effective July 1, 2012, Georgia Healthcare REIT, Inc., (&#147;Georgia REIT&#148;) a private company owned and controlled by Mr. Brogdon, consummated its first acquisition: the Middle Georgia Nursing Home. Middle Georgia Nursing Home is located at 556 Chester Highway in Eastman, Georgia (&#147;Middle Georgia&#148; or the &#147;Facility&#148;). The Facility was acquired through Dodge NH, LLC, a limited liability company formed for the purpose of acquiring Middle Georgia that was initially wholly-owned by Georgia REIT. Dodge Investors, LLC was formed and organized as a financing entity to raise $1.1 million in funding to complete the financing required to complete the acquisition, as more fully described below.

The terms of the acquisition of Middle Georgia were as follows: The purchase price was $5.0 million, of which $4.2 million was paid with the proceeds of a commercial mortgage with Colony Bank, as senior lender, which accrued interest at 6.25% per annum; and the balance of $1.0 million was provided by Dodge Investors, LLC. Dodge Investors LLC funded Dodge NH, LLC with $1.1 million in consideration of 13% unsecured notes and a carried 35% membership interest in Dodge NH, LLC. Of the $1.1 million raised by Dodge Investors, LLC, $125,000 was invested by Georgia REIT from loan proceeds from the Company, representing a 4% membership interest of the total 35% membership interest held by Dodge Investors, LLC. The Dodge NH, LLC notes purchased by Dodge Investors, LLC accrued interest at the rate of 13% per annum, interest payable monthly, with the outstanding balance of principal and accrued and unpaid interest due July 1, 2014. 

Effective March 15, 2013, Georgia REIT conveyed its entire 65% membership interest in Dodge NH to WPF. During 2014 and 2015, the Company acquired the remaining membership interests in Dodge Investors, LLC and holds a 100% membership interest as of December 31, 2015. The Company has also repaid the entire $1.1 million note to Dodge Investors, LLC. 

Dodge NH, LLC has an operating lease agreement with Eastman Healthcare and Rehab, LLC, owned by a professional skilled nursing facility operator, having an initial term of five years expiring in June 2017, with an option to renew for an additional five-year period. The rent began at $45,000 per month and increased by $1,000 per month on each lease anniversary, thereafter. (See &#147;Subsequent Events&#148;).

Acquisition of Warrenton Nursing Home 

Effective December 31, 2013, the Company consummated the purchase of the 110 bed Warrenton Nursing Home (&#147;Warrenton&#148;) located in Warrenton, Georgia. Warrenton was 

purchased by ATL/WARR, LLC, a single purpose Georgia limited liability company (&#147;Warr LLC&#148;) previously owned 95% by Christopher Brogdon and 5% by an unaffiliated investor. Concurrently, Mr. Brogdon conveyed his 95% membership interest in Warr LLC to the Company for nominal consideration.

Warr LLC entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated April 3, 2013 (the &#147;PSA&#148;) with Providence Health Care, Inc., as seller, covering the Warrenton facility. The purchase price of Warrenton was $3.5 million, of which $2.72 million was provided by a commercial senior bank loan, and approximately $984,500 was provided by the Company. 

Pursuant to the PSA, Warr LLC acquired (i) the land on which the facility is located, (ii) all buildings and other structures situated on or appurtenant to the land, (iii) all appliances, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and (iv) all transferable intangible assets and property related to the facility.

Warr LLC has assumed an operating lease (&#147;Lease&#148;) with a multi-unit skilled nursing home operator (&#147;Operator&#148;). The Operator (i) owns the facility records, residential agreements, resident trust funds and inventory, (ii) is the licensed operator of the facility, and (iii) operates the facility as a skilled nursing facility. The operating lease provided for annual rent of $379,634 for fiscal year 2015 and will expire in June 2016.

Neither Warr LLC nor the Company (i) owns a direct equity interest in the skilled nursing facility business operated by the Operator, (ii) is subject to a beneficial participating or residual interest in such business, or (iii) is entitled to participate in, or otherwise influence, any decision related to such business, except for customary provisions under the Lease with regard to the use, regulatory compliance, maintenance, alteration and preservation of the real property and FF&#38;E.

Acquisition of Southern Hills Retirement Center 

Effective February 7, 2014, the Company acquired the real property and improvements comprising a 100% interest in the Southern Hills Retirement Center located in Tulsa, Oklahoma (&#147;Southern Hills&#148;). To complete the acquisition, the Company formed and organized Southern Tulsa, LLC, a Georgia limited liability company, a new wholly-owned subsidiary of WPF. 

The Southern Hills facility is comprised of a senior living campus of three buildings totaling 104,192 square feet sitting on a 4.36 acre parcel. The Center consists of a Assisted Living facility (&#147;ALF&#148;), an Independent Living facility (&#147;ILF&#148;) and a Skilled Nursing facility (&#147;SNF&#148;). The Center offers 116 nursing beds, 86 independent living units, and 32 assisted living beds. 

The purchase price for Southern Hills was $2.0 million, of which $1.5 million was provided by a senior mortgage with First Commercial Bank, with the balance of $500,000 provided by Global. Global also provided a guaranty of the loan from First Commercial Bank. 

In the purchase of the property, Southern Tulsa, LLC acquired (i) the land on which the facility is located, (ii) all buildings and other structures situated on or appurtenant to the land, (iii) all appliances, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and (iv) all transferable intangible assets and property related to the facility.

On March 1, 2014, the Tulsa County Industrial Authority issued $5.7 million of its First Mortgage Revenue Bonds and lent the net proceeds to the Company. The Company used the proceeds to pay off the $1.5 million bridge loan, to pay certain costs of the bond issuance, to renovate the 86 independent living units and 32-bed assisted living facility, and to establish a debt service reserve fund and other initial deposits as required by the bond indenture. The debt is secured by a first mortgage lien on the independent living units and assisted living facility (facilities), an assignment of the facilities leases, a first lien on all personal property located in the facilities, and a guaranty by the Company. The debt bears interest at rates ranging from 7.0% to 8.5% with principal and interest due monthly beginning in May 2014 through maturity on March 1, 2044. The loan agreement also contains financial covenants required to be maintained by the Company. 

The SNF was refinanced with a commercial bank for $2,000,000. The SNF is under a five year lease to Healthcare Management of Oklahoma for an initial rent of $35,000 per month. The ALF is leased to Healthcare Management of Oklahoma for an initial rent of $20,000 per month which was to commence on April 1, 2015; however, additional renovations are required to open the facility and the commencement of rent payments has been delayed. The ILF is presently undergoing renovation which is expected to be completed during 2016. When the renovation is complete the Company plans to lease it as well. 

Acquisition of Interest In Limestone Assisted Living 

Effective March 5, 2014, WPF consummated a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement providing for the purchase from Connie Brogdon, spouse of Christopher Brogdon, President and Director of the Company, for nominal consideration ($10.00) a 25% membership interest in Limestone Assisted Living, LLC (&#147;Limestone LLC&#148;). The other 75% membership interest in Limestone LLC is owned by Connie Brogdon (5%) and unaffiliated third parties (70%). The Company also extended a loan to Limestone LLC in the principal amount of $550,000 (the &#147;Limestone Loan&#148;), which is repayable, together with interest at the rate of 10% per annum, on or before the earlier of (i) August 31, 2014 or (ii) from the proceeds of the sale of the Limestone Assisted Living facility. The obligation of Limestone LLC to repay the Limestone Loan is secured by the personal Guaranty of Christopher Brogdon. All of the proceeds of the Limestone Loan were used by Limestone LLC to repay and retire a loan in the principal amount of $500,000, plus accrued and unpaid interest, owed to an unaffiliated third party. That $500,000 loan had matured on February 1, 2013. In February 2015, we agreed to extend the maturity date of the Limestone Loan to August 1, 2015.

&#160;

Limestone LLC owns 100% of the Limestone Assisted Living facility (&#147;Limestone&#148;), a 42 bed, 22,189 square foot assisted living facility situated on 4.43 acres located in Gainesville, Georgia. There is senior secured bond debt in the approximate amount of $3.7 million in addition to the Limestone Loan.

On March 25, 2015, the Limestone facility was sold and the Limestone Loan, including all accrued and unpaid interest, was repaid in full. 

Acquisition of Scottsburg Healthcare Center 

Effective January 27, 2014, the Company consummated a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement providing for the purchase from Georgia REIT, for nominal consideration ($10.00) a 67.5% membership interest in Wood Moss, LLC (&#147;Wood Moss&#148;). The remaining 32.5% membership interest in Wood Moss is owned by Scottsburg Investors, LLC (&#147;Scottsburg Investors&#148;). Scottsburg Investors sold an aggregate of $500,000 in promissory notes to its members, and used the proceeds to extend a loan to Wood Moss evidenced by a 13% $500,000 unsecured note payable by Wood Moss.

Wood Moss owned 100% of the Scottsburg Healthcare Center (&#147;Scottsburg&#148;), a 99 bed skilled nursing facility situated on 3.58 acres in Scottsburg, Indiana. The purchase price paid by Wood Moss for Scottsburg was $3.415 million, consisting of $500,000 from Scottsburg Investors and a conventional first mortgage in the principal amount of $2.915 million.

Scottsburg was leased to Waters of Scottsburg, an affiliate of Infinity HealthCare Management under an operating lease that expired December 31, 2014. Base rent under the lease was $31,000 per month through December 31, 2013 and increased to $32,000 per month beginning January 1, 2014.

Disposition of Scottsburg Healthcare Center 

Effective March 10, 2014, Wood Moss sold its 100% interest in Scottsburg. The purchaser was 1350 N. Todd Drive, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company, under a Purchase Agreement originally dated October 9, 2008, as amended and assigned. The sales price was $3.6 million, which included retirement of the first mortgage, subject to closing adjustments.

Acquisition of Goodwill Nursing Home 

Effective May 19, 2014, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement pursuant to which it acquired from Christopher and Connie Brogdon (i) units representing an undivided 45% Membership Interest in Goodwill Hunting, LLC, a Georgia limited liability company, and (ii) units representing an undivided 36.7% Membership Interest in GWH Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (collectively, the &#147;Units&#148;). GWH Investors, LLC owns a 40% membership interest in Goodwill Hunting, LLC. Together, the Company acquired, directly and indirectly, a 59.7% interest in Goodwill Hunting, LLC. The purchase price for the Units was $800,000. The facility is subject to an aggregate of $4,577,047 in senior debt and $1,280,000 in non-affiliated subordinated debt. 

Goodwill Hunting, LLC owns the Goodwill Nursing Home, a 172 bed skilled nursing facility located in Macon, Georgia. It is leased to Goodwill Healthcare and Rehabilitation, LLC under an operating lease that expires in 2017. The operating lease provided for annual rent totaling $734,400 for fiscal year 2015. (See &#147;Subsequent Events&#148;). 

Effective December 3, 2014, the Company acquired a 96.56% membership interest in GWH Investors, LLC, which holds a 40% membership interest in Goodwill Hunting, LLC. The purchase price for the 96.56% interest in GWH Investors, LLC was 164,491 shares of common stock of the Company. 

The subordinated debt in the amount of $1,280,000 matured on July 1, 2015. Investors in the subordinated debt were entitled to an additional 5% equity in Goodwill Hunting, LLC every six months if the debt is not paid by the Company when due. Effective December 31, 2015, the investors holding all of the outstanding interests in the subordinated debt executed an Agreement Among Lenders pursuant to which they (i) waived any and all equity ratchets and (ii) agreed to extend the maturity date of the subordinated debt to June 30, 2017, in consideration for which Goodwill Hunting, LLC agreed to pay each investor a one-time premium equal to 5% of the principal amount of the notes at such time as the notes are repaid. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company owns a 83.62% interest in Goodwill Hunting, LLC. The investors in GWH Investors, LLC still hold subordinated debt in the net amount of $1,280,000. (See &#147;Subsequent Events&#148;). 

Acquisition of Edwards Redeemer Health &#38; Rehab 

Effective September 16, 2014, the Company acquired from Mr. Brogdon a 62.5% membership interest in Edwards Redeemer Property Holding, LLC, which owns the real property and improvements known as the Edwards Redeemer Health &#38; Rehab, a 106 bed nursing home located on 3.05 acres in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 

Edwards Redeemer Health &#38; Rehab is operated under a triple-net operating lease to a regional professional skilled nursing home operator, which will expire in December 2017. The lease provided for $540,000 in gross annual rent for fiscal year 2015.

The purchase price for the 62.5% interest in the facility was $491,487, which is subject to an aggregate of $2,381,500 in debt. The purchase price was offset in its entirety as a credit against an advance receivable owed by Brogdon to the Company.

Effective December 3, 2014, the Company acquired a 100% membership interest in Redeemer Investors, LLC which owned the remaining 37.5% membership interest in Edwards Redeemer Property Holdings, LLC. The purchase price for the 100% interest in Redeemer Investors, LLC was 269,245 shares of common stock of the Company. As a result of these transactions, the Company now holds a 100% interest in Edwards Redeemer Property Holdings, LLC.

The investors in Redeemer Investors, LLC were repaid in full on January 23, 2015. 

Acquisition of Golden Years Manor Nursing Home 

Effective September 16, 2014, the Company acquired from Mr. Brogdon a 44.5% membership interest in GL Nursing, LLC, which owns the real property and improvements known as the Golden Years Manor Nursing Home located at 1010 Barnes Street in Lonoke, Arkansas. The facility has 141 licensed beds and comprises 40,737 square feet on 3.17 acres. 

Golden Years Manor Nursing Home is operated under a triple-net operating lease to a regional professional skilled nursing home operator, which will expire in May 2017. The lease currently generates $763,000 in gross annual rent.

The purchase price for the 44.5% interest in the facility was 192,767 shares of common stock in Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. The facility is subject to an aggregate of $4,671,537 in senior debt and $1,650,000 in subordinated debt.

Effective December 3, 2014, The Company acquired a 26.25% membership interest in GLN Investors, LLC, which owned a 30% interest in GL Nursing, LLC. The purchase price for the 26.25% interest in GLN Investors, LLC was 31,015 shares of common stock in Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. 

During 2015, the Company acquired an additional 73.48% of GLN Investors, LLC, bringing its interest to 100%. The purchase price for the additional shares was 107,113 shares of common stock in Global Healthcare REIT, Inc.

As a result of these transactions, at December 31, 2015, the Company held a 75.5% interest in GL Nursing, LLC. The investors in GLN Investors, LLC still retain $1,650,000 in subordinated debt. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the Company acquired the remaining 24.5% membership interest in GL Nursing, LLC. (See &#147;Subsequent Events&#148;).

Acquisition of Providence of Sparta Nursing Home 

Effective September 16, 2014, the Company acquired from Mr. Brogdon a 65% membership interest in Providence HR, LLC, which owns the real property and improvements known as the Providence of Sparta Nursing Home. The facility has 71 licensed beds and is located on approximately 8 acres in Sparta, Georgia. 

Providence of Sparta is operated under a triple-net operating lease to a regional professional skilled nursing home operator, which expires in June 2016. The lease currently generates $270,180 in gross annual rent for fiscal year 2015. 

The purchase price for the 65% interest in the facility was 61,930 shares of common stock of Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. The facility is subject to an aggregate of $1,686,506 in senior debt and $1,050,000 in subordinated debt. 

Effective December 3, 2014, the Company acquired a 44.4% membership interest in Providence HR Investors, LLC, which owns a 30% membership interest in Providence HR, LLC. The purchase price for the 44.4% interest in Providence HR Investors, LLC was 45,145 shares of common stock of the Company. 

During 2015, the Company acquired an additional 48.09% of Providence HR Investors, LLC bringing its interest to 92.46%. The purchase price for the additional shares was 17,333 shares of common stock in Global Healthcare REIT, Inc.

The subordinated debt in the amount of $1,050,000 matured on August 1, 2015. Providence HR Investors, LLC is entitled to an additional 5% equity in Providence HR, LLC every six months if the debt is not paid when due.

As a result of these transactions, the Company now holds a 97.36% interest in Providence HR, LLC. The investors in Providence HR Investors, LLC still retain $1,050,000 in subordinated debt. 

Acquisition of Greene Point Health Care Center 

Effective September 16, 2014, the Company acquired from Mr. Brogdon a 62.145% membership interest in Wash/Greene, LLC, which owns the real property and improvements known as the Greene Point Healthcare Center, located at 1321 Washington Highway in Union Point, Georgia. The facility has 71 licensed beds and is located on approximately 9 acres.

Greene Point Healthcare Center is operated under a triple-net operating lease to a regional professional skilled nursing home operator, which expires in June 2016. The lease currently generates $287,052 in gross annual rent for fiscal year 2015. 

The purchase price for the 62.145% interest in the facility was 73,253 shares of common stock of Global Healthcare REIT, Inc. The facility is subject to an aggregate of $1,692,000 in senior debt and $1,125,000 in subordinated debt. 

Effective December 3, 2014, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding membership interests in 1321 Investors, LLC, which owns a 30% membership interest in Wash/Greene, LLC. The purchase price for the 30% membership interest in 1321 Investors, LLC was 115,000 shares of common stock of the Company. 

The subordinated debt in the amount of $1,150,000 matured on October 1, 2015. Investors in the subordinated debt are entitled to an additional 5% equity in Providence HR, LLC every six months if the debt is not paid when due. Effective December 31, 2015, the investors holding all of the outstanding interests in the subordinated debt executed an Agreement Among Lenders pursuant to which they (i) waived any and all equity ratchets and (ii) agreed to extend the maturity date of the subordinated debt to June 30, 2017.

As a result of these transactions, the Company owns 100% of the outstanding membership interests of Wash/Greene, LLC. The investors in 1321 Investors, LLC still retain approximately $1,125,000 in subordinated debt. 

Meadowview Healthcare Center 

Effective September 30, 2014, the Company purchased the Meadowview Healthcare Center located in Seville, Ohio (&#147;Meadowview&#148;) and owns 100% of this facility. The facility is licensed for 100 skilled nursing beds, is 27,500 square feet and located on five acres of land. Seville, Ohio is located approximately 25 miles west of Akron, Ohio and 40 miles south of Cleveland, Ohio in an area with attractive population growth in the 65 to 74 year age bracket. The total purchase price for Meadowview was $3.0 million, which was paid in cash using the proceeds of the Note Offering described below. Meadowview was acquired through High Street Nursing, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company formed for the sole purpose of completing the purchase.

&#160;

Meadowview is operated under a triple-net operating lease to a regional professional skilled nursing home operator, which expires in August 2024. The lease currently generated $361,000 in gross annual rent for fiscal year 2015.

Financings 

2013 Private Offering of Common Stock 

We commenced a private offering of our common stock, $0.05 par value (&#147;Common Stock&#148;) on December 4, 2013 (the &#147;Offering&#148;). The Offering consisted of up to 7.5 million shares of Common Stock being offered on a 2,250,000 share, all-or-none, minimum (&#147;Minimum Offering&#148;), 7,500,000 share maximum, best efforts, basis (&#147;Maximum Offering&#148;) at a private offering price of $0.75 per share. We also granted the Placement Agent an over-allotment option to sell an additional 1.5 million shares on the same terms.

On March 14, 2014, we completed the Final Closing of our Private Offering, having sold in the Offering an aggregate of 8,966,688 shares of common stock, including exercise of the Placement Agent&#146;s over-allotment option, for gross consideration of $6,724,998 consisting of (i) $5,988,653 in cash, (ii) $623,793 in Notes exchanged for common stock and (iii) a 32.5% membership interest in Scottsburg Investors, LLC exchanged for 150,000 shares. We used a portion of the proceeds from the Private Offering to repay notes payable and to acquire Warrenton. 

2014 Note Offering 

The Company completed a private offering of its 6.5% Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Notes (the &#147;Notes&#148;) on September 26, 2014 (the &#147;Note Offering&#148;). The Notes accrue interest at the rate of 6.5% per annum, payable quarterly, and mature on the third anniversary of the date of issue. The Notes can be called for redemption at the option of the Company at any time (i) after September 15, 2015 but prior to September 15, 2016 at an early redemption price equal to 103% of the face amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, or (ii) any time after September 15, 2016 but prior to September 15, 2017 at an early redemption price equal to 102% of the face amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.. Each Note is convertible at the option of the holder into shares of common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $1.37 per share. The Notes will automatically convert into common stock at the conversion price in the event (i) there exists a public market for the Company&#146;s common stock, (ii) the closing price of the common stock in the principal trading market has been $2.00 per share or higher for the preceding ten (10) trading days, and (iii) either (A) there is an effective registration statement registering for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the conversion shares or (B) the conversion shares are eligible to be resold by non-affiliates of the Company without restriction under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 

The Notes are secured by a senior mortgage on the Meadowview Healthcare Center located in Seville, Ohio.

2015 Debt Refinancing 

During 2015, the Company paid off existing debt of $880,000, with an interest rate of 12.0% maturing on October 1, 2016, and $1,361,728, with an interest rate of 4.25% maturing on December 20, 2017, related to our Edwards Redeemer property. The debt was refinanced with a financial institution in the amount of $2,303,815 at a fixed interest rate of 5.50% maturing on January 16, 2020.

Our Business 

Healthcare Industry 

Healthcare is the single largest industry in the U.S. based on Gross Domestic Product (&#34;GDP&#34;). According to the National Health Expenditures report by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#34;CMS&#34;): (i) national health expenditures are expected to remain just under 4.0% of GDP in 2015; (ii) the average compounded annual growth rate for national health expenditures, over the projection period of 2014 through 2024, is anticipated to be 5.8%; and (iii) health spending is projected to represent 19.6% of US GDP by 2024, up from 17.4% in 2013.

Senior citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. According to CMS, on a per capita basis, the 85-year and older segment of the population spends 99% more on healthcare than the 65 to 84-year-old segment and over 160% more than the population average.

Business Strategy 

Our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification and (iii) conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing 

We will make investment decisions that are expected to drive profitable growth and create shareholder value. We will attempt to position ourselves to create and take advantage of situations to meet our goals and investment criteria.

Portfolio Diversification 

We believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare investments diversified by segment, geography, operator, tenant and investment product. Diversification reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business and allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of diversification, we will monitor, but will not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment product, geographic location, the number of properties which we may lease to a single operator or tenant, or mortgage loans we may make to a single borrower. With investments in multiple segments and investment products, we can focus on opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole. We may structure transactions as master leases, require operator or tenant insurance and indemnifications, obtain credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk.

Financing 

We will strive to manage our debt-to-equity levels and maintain multiple sources of liquidity, access to capital markets and secured debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective institutional joint venture partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt obligations will be primarily fixed rate with staggered maturities, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.

We plan to finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may arrange for short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We may also arrange for longer-term financing through offerings of equity and debt securities, placement of mortgage debt and capital from other institutional lenders and equity investors.

Competition 

Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We will face competition from REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete may also be impacted by national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation and population trends.

Income from our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with other companies on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private, federal and state payment programs as well as the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. 

Healthcare Segments 

Senior housing . Senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities (&#34;ALFs&#34;), independent living facilities (&#34;ILFs&#34;) and continuing care retirement communities (&#34;CCRCs&#34;), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Senior housing property types are further described below.

Assisted Living Facilities . ALFs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living (&#34;ADL&#34;) yet require limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations.

Independent Living Facilities . ILFs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with ADL, such as bathing, eating and dressing. However, residents have the option to contract for these services.

Continuing Care Retirement Communities. CCRCs provide housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to &#34;age in place.&#34; Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry.

Post-acute/skilled nursing . Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNF) offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain SNFs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. Post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities will be primarily paid for either by private sources or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Life science . These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (&#34;HVAC&#34;) systems. The facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives.

Medical office . Medical office buildings (&#34;MOBs&#34;) typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain &#34;vaults&#34; or other specialized construction. We expect our MOBs will be typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices).

Hospital. Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or &#34;HMOs&#34;), or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, and specialty and rehabilitation hospitals.

Investment Products 

Properties under lease . We plan to primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. Most of our rents and other earned income from leases will be received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. However, some of our MOBs and life science facility rents will be structured under gross or modified gross 

leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we may incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance.

Our ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases will include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index.

Debt investments. Our mezzanine loans will generally be secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. Our interest in mortgages and construction financing will typically be issued by healthcare providers and will generally be secured by healthcare real estate. 

Developments and redevelopments . We will generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. We will work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development and redevelopment investments will likely be in the life science and medical office segments. Redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to achieve property stabilization or to change the primary use of the properties.

Investment management . We may co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. We may target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. Predominantly, we plan to retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture.

Operating properties (&#34;RIDEA&#34;) . We may enter into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a structure permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (commonly referred to as &#34;RIDEA&#34;). Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease &#34;qualified health care properties&#34; on an arm's length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary (&#34;TRS&#34;) if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an &#34;eligible independent contractor.&#34; We view RIDEA as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points, where repositioning with a new operator that is aligned with health care providers can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services to drive growth.

Government Regulations, Licensing and Enforcement 

Overview 

Our tenants and operators will typically be subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. These regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties will be subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us.

We will seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not largely dependent on Medicaid reimbursement for their revenues. In addition, we ensure in each instance that our operators have obtained all necessary licenses and permits before beginning operations, and require that those operators covenant that they will comply with all applicable laws and regulations in connection with the facility operations.

The following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us. 

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement 

There are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. These laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the &#34;Stark Law&#34;), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. Violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial 

of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. These laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or &#34;whistleblower&#34; actions. Many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.

Reimbursement 

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators will include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and HMOs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need 

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio will be subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Americans with Disabilities Act (the &#34;ADA&#34;) 

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are &#34;public accommodations&#34; as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters 

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner 

of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues.

Taxation 

Federal Income Tax Considerations 

The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States).

This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities. 

General 

We will elect to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a &#147;REIT&#148;) at such time as the Board of Directors, with the consultation of our professional advisors, determines that we qualify as a REIT under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. We cannot predict for which tax year that election will be made; however, we do not intend to make such an election for 2015. Therefore, applicable taxes have been recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Once we make the election to be treated as a REIT, we intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership. There can be no assurance 

that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified. 

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include their proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gain in income, but they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain. 

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income and excise tax as follows: 

&#183;

To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our &#147;REIT taxable income,&#148; as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates; 

&#183;

If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of &#147;foreclosure property&#148; that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate rate; 

&#183;

Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax; 

&#183;

If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests, but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability; 

&#183;

If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually distributed; 

&#183;

We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by any of our &#147;taxable REIT subsidiaries&#148; that would be reduced through reallocation under certain federal income tax principles in order to more clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary; 

&#183;

We may be subject to the corporate &#147;alternative minimum tax&#148; on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net operating losses; and 

&#183;

For any investments which may qualify as prohibited transactions or restricted assets, we may elect to form a taxable REIT subsidiary to hold such investments or operations. Income from the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to taxes at the usual federal and state tax rates. 

On March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which requires U.S. stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts to pay an additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stock for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this legislation on their ownership and disposition of shares of our stock. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had one full time employee. The Company also engages the services of consultants from time to time, some of which may be provided by affiliates of the Company at no cost.

