 ITEM 1. Business 

Overview 

Green Dot Corporation, along with its wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a pro-consumer financial technology innovator with a mission to provide a full range of affordable and accessible financial services to the masses. We are the largest provider of reloadable prepaid debit cards and cash reload processing services in the United States. We are also a leader in mobile technology and mobile banking with our award-winning GoBank mobile checking account and a top 20 debit card issuer among all banks and credit unions in the country. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SBBT Holdings, LLC (&#8220;TPG&#8221;), we are also the largest processor of tax refund disbursements in the U.S. Our products and services are available to consumers through a large-scale "branchless bank" distribution network of more than 100,000 &#32;U.S. retail locations, thousands of neighborhood financial service center locations, online, in the leading app stores, and through approximately 25,000 tax preparation offices and leading online tax preparation providers. 

The combination of our innovative products and services, broad retail distribution and proprietary technology creates powerful network effects, which we believe enhance the value we deliver to our customers, our retail distributors and other participants in our network. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in October 1999 as Next Estate Communications, Inc. and changed our name to Green Dot Corporation in October 2005. We completed our initial public offering of Class A common stock in July 2010. In December 2011, we became a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), as a result of our acquisition of Bonneville Bancorp, the holding company of Bonneville Bank, a state-chartered Utah bank. The bank was subsequently renamed Green Dot Bank and we became a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. In 2014 and 2015, we made four acquisitions, including TPG, adding tax refund processing services to the range of products and services we provide. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 3465 East Foothill Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91107, and our telephone number is (626) 765-2000. We maintain a website at www.greendot.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website via the Investor Relations section at ir.greendot.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. References to website addresses in this report are intended to be inactive textual references only, and none of the information contained on our website is part of this report or incorporated in this report by reference. 

Segments 

As of December 31, 2014 &#32;and prior, our operations were organized within one reportable segment. As a result of acquisitions occurring in late 2014 and early 2015, we have realigned our operations into two reportable segments: 1) Account Services and 2) Processing and Settlement Services. We identify our reportable segments based on factors such as how we manage our operations and how our chief operating decision maker allocates resources amongst the business. Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings and uses operating income to assess profitability. Financial information regarding our segments and the products and services they provide are included in the information set forth in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and &#32;Note 23&#8212;Segment Information of the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Our Business Model 

Our business model focuses on three major elements: our consumers; our products and services; and our distribution channels. 

Our Consumers 

We have designed our products and services to appeal primarily to consumers living in U.S. households that earn less than $75,000 annually across the following five consumer segments: 

&#8226; 

Unbanked &#8212; individuals who do not have a bank account; 

&#8226; 

Underbanked &#8212; individuals who may hold a bank account of one type or another, but do not maintain sufficient balances or hold a sufficient enough credit standing to allow that individual to engage fully in the bank's offerings; 

&#8226; 

Unhappily banked &#8212; individuals who hold a bank account, but are seeking alternative solutions to that account; 

&#8226; 

New to banking &#8212; individuals who are coming of age or otherwise want or need a bank account, but have not acquired one; 

&#8226; 

Millennials &#32;&#8212; characterized as younger Americans who have grown up in a mobile-based, technology-driven world and who have distinct expectations and attitudes related to how they choose and consume various products and services, including financial services. 

Based on data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, the Federal Reserve Bank, the U.S. Census, the Center for Financial Services Innovation and our proprietary data, we believe the addressable portions of these five consumer segments collectively represent a market opportunity of approximately 160 million people in the United States for our products and services. 

Our Products and Services 

Our principal products and services consist of branded and private label deposit account programs (collectively "Account Services"), and processing and settlement services. 

Account Services 

Our branded deposit account programs include Green Dot-branded and affinity-branded general purpose reloadable ("GPR") card accounts, checking accounts and open-loop gift cards. We also have the ability to provide private label GPR card accounts on behalf of a retailer or other third party entity. Private label cards generally bear the trademarks or logos of the retail distributor or business entity, and our trademark on the packaging and back of the card. These cards have the same features and characteristics as our Green Dot-branded GPR cards, and are accepted at the same locations. We typically are responsible for managing all aspects of these programs, including strategy, product design, marketing, customer service, operations and compliance with our subsidiary bank serving as the card's issuer. Currently, our only private label program is the Walmart MoneyCard. 

Our GPR card accounts are prepaid debit accounts issued by Green Dot Bank (or other partner banks) with deposits on those cards insured by the FDIC. GPR cards are designed for general spending purposes and are reloadable for ongoing long-term use. 

To purchase a GPR card in a retail store location, consumers typically select the temporary GPR card from an in-store display and pay the cashier a one-time purchase fee plus the initial amount they would like to load onto their card. Our GPR cards can also be obtained online and in the mail through our direct marketing efforts. Consumers then go online, use a mobile device, or call a toll-free number to register their personal information with us so that we can activate their card. As explained below, consumers can then reload their GPR cards using our processing and settlement services. Funds can also be loaded on the card via direct deposit of various disbursements, such as a customer&#8217;s payroll check. 

Our GPR cards are issued as Visa- or MasterCard-branded cards and can be used by consumers at merchants that accept these brands. Our cardholders can also conduct cash withdrawal transactions at ATMs that accept our cards, which includes the substantial majority of ATMs located in the United States. 

For regulatory compliance, risk management, operational and other reasons, our GPR cards are not anonymous and require the customer to provide us with their personal information necessary to ensure to the satisfaction of Green Dot Bank that it has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of its customers. 

Checking Accounts . We offer innovative checking account products, such as GoBank, that allow customers to acquire and manage their checking account entirely through a mobile application available on smartphone devices. Our GoBank product is available nationwide via GoBank.com and through a downloadable app on leading app stores, as well as off the rack at Walmart stores nationwide. 

Open Loop Gift Cards . We offer general purpose, non-reloadable gift cards. These Visa- or MasterCard-branded gift cards can be used by consumers to make purchases wherever Visa or MasterCard is accepted. Funds loaded onto gift cards are not insured by the FDIC, nor is it required that the customer provide personal identifiable information in order to use the product. 

Processing and Settlement Services 

Our processing and settlement services include both our reload services and tax refund processing services. 

Reload Services . We generate cash transfer revenues when consumers use our reload services through the Green Dot Network. We offer consumers affordable and convenient ways to reload any of our GPR cards and cards from more than 120 third-party prepaid card programs (our network acceptance members), and conduct other cash loading transactions through the Green Dot Network using retailers&#8217; specially-enabled point of sale ("POS") devices. Consumers 

can add funds directly to accounts we issue and accounts issued by our network acceptance members, to the extent those accounts are eligible to receive recurring deposits, through an automated POS swipe reload transaction. To complete transactions, consumers pay the cashier the desired amount to be reloaded, plus a service fee, and funds are reloaded onto the GPR card at the point of sale without further action required on the part of the consumer. Historically, consumers were also able to conduct cash loading transactions using our MoneyPak PIN product, which prior to 2014 was offered in all of the retail locations where our GPR cards were sold. We began phasing out the MoneyPak PIN product in 2014 and discontinued offering that product by the end of the first quarter of 2015. We plan to introduce a next-generation MoneyPak product in the first half of 2016 across the store locations of our retail distributors. 

Tax Refund Processing Services . We provide the processing technology that facilitates the receipt of a taxpayer's refund proceeds. We generate tax refund processing service revenues when a customer of a third party tax preparation company chooses to pay their tax preparation fee using our tax refund processing services, whereby we deduct the costs of the tax preparation service and our processing service from the taxpayer's refund, and remit the remaining net balance to the taxpayer per their instructions. 

Our Distribution Channels 

We achieve broad distribution of our products and services through distribution arrangements with more than 100,000 "brick and mortar" retail locations, digital and direct mail customer acquisition sources , and the leading app stores. Accounts issued by us or our network acceptance members can be reloaded at these brick and mortar retail locations. 

Most of our arrangements for brick and mortar retail locations have been in effect with our distributors for several years. These retail distributors have contracts with us, subject to termination rights, which expire at various dates through 2020. In general, our agreements with our retail distributors give us the right to offer GPR deposit account programs and reload services in their retail locations and require us to share with them by way of commissions the revenues generated through sales of these cards and reload services. We and the retail distributors generally also agree to certain marketing arrangements, such as promotions and advertising. 

&#32; Our Relationship with Walmart. &#32;Walmart is our largest retail distributor. Green Dot Corporation has been the provider of Walmart-branded GPR cards sold at Walmart since the initiation of the Walmart MoneyCard program in 2007, and Green Dot Bank has been the issuer of those cards since early 2014. Pursuant to our agreement with Walmart, Green Dot designs and delivers the Walmart MoneyCard product and provides all ongoing program support, including network IT, regulatory and legal compliance, website functionality, customer service and loss management. Walmart displays and sells the cards and Green Dot Bank serves as the issuer of the cards and holds the associated FDIC-insured deposits. All Walmart MoneyCard products are reloadable exclusively on the Green Dot Network. In 2013, we began offering our Green Dot-branded cards at Walmart, providing consumers the choice to purchase either Green Dot-branded cards or any of the Walmart MoneyCard products, and during the fourth quarter of 2014, our GoBank checking account product was launched and made available in a retail setting at Walmart. Our operating revenues derived from products and services sold at the store locations of Walmart represented approximately 46% , 54% , and 64% &#32;of our total operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

The term of our Walmart MoneyCard agreement expires on May 1, 2020, with an automatic renewal clause for an additional period of two years, subject to certain terms as discussed in the agreement. This agreement can in limited circumstances, such as our failure to meet agreed-upon service levels and certain changes in control, be terminated by Walmart on relatively short notice. 

Direct Channels . An increasing portion of our account sales are generated from digital and direct mail customer acquisition sources and we expect this trend to accelerate over time. Customers who acquire our accounts through these channels and pass identity verification typically receive an unfunded card in the mail and then can reload the card either through a cash reload or an ACH deposit transaction. 

Network Acceptance Members. A large number of program managers that offer their own prepaid cards accept funds through the Green Dot Network. We provide reload services to more than 120 third-party prepaid card programs, including programs offered by UniRush and H&#38;R Block. MasterCard&#8217;s RePower Reload Network also uses the Green Dot Network to facilitate cash reloads for its own member programs. In addition, we provide reload services to other kinds of financial services firms and their customers. 

Tax Preparation Businesses . Our tax refund processing services are available to consumers through tax preparers in three core distribution channels: franchise tax preparers, independent tax preparers utilizing professional tax software, and taxpayers utilizing online tax preparation services. In general, our distribution agreements consist of revenue-sharing arrangements under which we allow our channel partners to access and utilize our processing and settlement 

technology as part of the tax preparation process. When our processing technology is utilized, a fee is paid by the consumer that is shared, subject to various terms of each particular distribution agreement, between the distribution partners and us. 

Sales and Marketing 

The primary objectives of our sales and marketing efforts are to educate consumers on the utility of our products and services in order to generate demand, and to instruct consumers on where they may purchase our products and services. We also seek to educate existing customers on the use of our products and services to encourage increased usage and retention of our products. We accomplish these objectives through various types of consumer-oriented marketing and advertising and by expanding our group of retail and other distributors to gain access to additional customers. 

Marketing to Consumers 

We market our products to a broad group of consumers, ranging from never-banked to fully-banked consumers. We are focusing our current sales and marketing efforts on acquisition of long-term users of our products, enhancing our brands and image, building market adoption and awareness of our products, improving customer retention, and increasing card usage. To achieve these objectives, we highlight to consumers the core benefits of our products and services and how the use of our products can solve their fundamental money management needs. 

Marketing to Business Partners 

We use a variety of marketing strategies to engage with our business partners, including retail distributors, tax preparation partners, and network acceptance members. 

When marketing our prepaid financial services to potential new retail distributors, we highlight several key benefits, including our leading national brand, our in-store presence and merchandising expertise, our cash reload network, the profitability of our products to them and our commitment to support our brand through national marketing efforts. In addition, we communicate the peripheral benefits of our products, such as their ability to generate additional foot traffic and sales in their stores and higher average purchase amounts per transaction. We engage in similar strategies when marketing to our tax preparation partners. 

We market our reload network to a broad range of banks, third-party processors, program managers and others that have uses for our reload network&#8217;s cash transfer technology. When marketing to potential network acceptance members, we highlight the key benefits of our cash loading network, including the breadth of our distribution capabilities, our leadership position in the industry, the profitability of our products to them, consumer satisfaction owing to the consistency in the user experience and our ongoing support of our network's offerings through national marketing to consumers and retail partners. 

Customer Service 

We provide customer service through numerous technologies and channels for all of the products provided by our company to consumers. We utilize both in-house and third-party call centers, as well as Interactive Voice Response systems, web-based support and email support in our customer service efforts. 

Seasonality 

In the industries for prepaid financial services and tax refund processing, companies commonly experience seasonal fluctuations in revenue. For example, in recent years, our results of operations for the first half of each year have been favorably affected by large numbers of taxpayers electing to receive their tax refunds via direct deposit on our cards, which caused our operating revenues to be typically higher in the first halves of those years than they were in the corresponding second halves of those years. Additionally, our tax refund processing services business is highly seasonal as it generates the substantial majority of its revenue in the first quarter, and substantially all of its revenue in the first half of each calendar year. We expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the prepaid financial services and tax refund processing industries as a whole. 

Competition 

Our core businesses include the offering of prepaid cards, checking accounts and financial transaction processing services to a wide range of consumers through broad, national distribution channels. Consequently, we compete against companies across the retail banking, financial services, and transaction processing services industries. In addition to the direct competitors described below, we compete for access to retail distribution channels, allocation of shelf space within those retail distributors, and for the attention of consumers at the retail level and online. Furthermore, many of our competitors are entities substantially larger in size, more highly diversified in revenue and substantially more established in age with significantly more broadly known brand awareness than ours. As such, many of our 

competitors can leverage their size, financial wherewithal, brand awareness, pricing power and technological assets to compete with us. 

Prepaid Card Issuance and Program Management 

We offer branded and private label deposit account card programs that directly compete with other banks that issue prepaid cards and other program managers that provide turn-key services for prepaid card programs. Primary competitors in this business include traditional credit, debit and prepaid card account issuers and prepaid card program managers like Chase, USBank, American Express, First Data, NetSpend/TSYS, UniRush, InComm, Western Union, MoneyGram, and Blackhawk Network Inc. In addition, from time to time, new entrants introduce prepaid card products or other products that seek to target that similar customer that could increase competition in this market. 

Reload Networks 

We offer our POS swipe reload proprietary products, which enable cash loading and transfer services through our Green Dot Network. While we believe our Green Dot Network is the leading reload network for prepaid cards in the United States, a growing number of companies are attempting to establish and grow their own reload networks. In this market, new companies, or alliances among existing companies, may be formed that rapidly achieve a significant market position. Many of these companies are substantially larger than we are and have greater resources, larger and more diversified customer bases and greater name recognition than we do. Our primary competitors in the reload network services market are: Visa, Western Union, MoneyGram, Blackhawk Network, Inc., and InComm. Visa has broad brand recognition and a large base of merchant acquiring and card issuing banks. Western Union, MoneyGram, Blackhawk Network, Inc., and InComm each have a national network of retail and/or agent locations. In addition, we compete for consumers and billers with financial institutions that provide their retail customers with billing, payment and funds transfer services. Many of these institutions are substantially larger and have greater resources, larger and more diversified customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do. 

Tax Refund Processing 

Our tax refund processing services compete directly with similar processing technologies and settlement capabilities offered by companies such as Refundo, Refund Advantage, Republic Bank and others. Furthermore, other entities, like Jackson Hewitt and H&#38;R Block, have either fully or partially internally-developed processing and settlement capabilities to self-provide services similar to ours. It is possible that our current or potentially new distribution partners may seek to develop their own internal capabilities that compete with our tax refund processing services. 

Consumer Banking Services 

With our GoBank product, we have expanded into the market for consumer checking accounts. In this market we compete against a wide range of both traditional and non-traditional banks, including the largest banks. Many of these banks have greater resources, larger and more diversified customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do. Many of these banks also have other assets that could give them an advantage, including broader ranges of product offerings and/or retail branch networks. We believe that our consumer checking account products are differentiated by their innovative technological features, innovative distribution model, consumer-friendly pricing, and branding. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws and trade secret protections in the United States, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. 

We own several trademarks, including Green Dot and GoBank. Through agreements with our network acceptance members, retail distributors and customers, we authorize and monitor the use of our trademarks in connection with their activities with us. 

Our patent portfolio currently consists of eight &#32;patents and ten &#32;patent applications. The term of the patents we hold is, on average, twenty years. We feel our patents and applications are important to our business and help to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. 

The industries in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors,&#8221; including the risk factors entitled &#8220; We must adequately protect our brand and the intellectual 

property rights related to our products and services and avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others ,&#8221; and &#8220; We must be able to operate and scale our technology effectively to manage any future growth.&#8221; 

Regulation 

Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is a highly complex and integral part of our day-to-day operations. Our products and services are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: 

&#8226; 

anti-money laundering laws; 

&#8226; 

money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations; 

&#8226; 

escheatment laws; 

&#8226; 

privacy and information safeguard laws; 

&#8226; 

banking regulations; and 

&#8226; 

consumer protection laws. 

These laws are often evolving and sometimes ambiguous or inconsistent, and the extent to which they apply to us, our subsidiary bank or the banks that issue our cards, our retail distributors, our tax preparation partners, our network acceptance members or our third-party processors is at times unclear. Any failure to comply with applicable law - either by us or by the card issuing banks, retail distributors, tax preparation partners, network acceptance members or third-party processors, over which we have limited legal and practical control - could result in restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties and the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to sell our products and services. 

We continually monitor and enhance our compliance program to stay current with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. We also continue to implement policies and programs and to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current legal standards, as well as with new and changing legal requirements affecting particular services or the conduct of our business generally. These programs include dedicated compliance personnel and training and monitoring programs, as well as support and guidance to our business partners on matters of regulatory compliance programs and best practices. 

Anti-Money Laundering Laws 

Our products and services are generally subject to federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar state laws. On an ongoing basis, these laws require us, among other things, to: 

&#8226; 

report large cash transactions and suspicious activity; 

&#8226; 

screen transactions against the U.S. government&#8217;s watch-lists, such as the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; 

&#8226; 

prevent the processing of transactions to or from certain countries, individuals, nationals and entities; 

&#8226; 

identify the dollar amounts loaded or transferred at any one time or over specified periods of time, which requires the aggregation of information over multiple transactions; 

&#8226; 

gather and, in certain circumstances, report customer information; 

&#8226; 

comply with consumer disclosure requirements; and 

&#8226; 

register or obtain licenses with state and federal agencies in the United States and seek registration of our retail distributors and network acceptance members when necessary. 

Anti-money laundering regulations are constantly evolving. We continuously monitor our compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and implement policies and procedures in order to comply with the most current legal requirements. We cannot predict how these future regulations might affect us. Complying with future regulation could be expensive or require us to change the way we operate our business. 

We are registered with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, as a money services business. As a result of being so registered, we have established anti-money laundering compliance programs that include: (i) internal policies and controls; (ii) designation of a compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training and (iv) an independent review function. We have developed and implemented compliance programs comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and address various legal requirements and developments. To assist in managing and monitoring money laundering risks, we continue to enhance our anti-money laundering 

compliance program. We offer our services largely through our retail distributor and network acceptance member relationships. We have developed an anti-money laundering training manual and a program to assist in educating our retail distributors on applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations. 

Money Transmitter Licensing Regulations 

We are subject to money transmitter licensing regulations. We have obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 40 states, Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C. and have applied for licensure in one additional state after a change in their statute. The remaining U.S. jurisdictions either do not currently regulate money transmitters or have rendered a regulatory determination or a legal interpretation that the money services laws of that jurisdiction do not require us to obtain a license in connection with the conduct of our business. As a licensee, we are subject to certain restrictions and requirements, including reporting, net worth and surety bonding requirements and requirements for regulatory approval of controlling stockholders, agent locations and consumer forms and disclosures. Many states require that we must at all times maintain cash and highly rated investment securities in an amount equivalent to all outstanding settlement obligations. We are also subject to inspection by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed, many of which conduct regular examinations. 

Escheatment Laws 

Unclaimed property laws of every U.S. jurisdiction require that we track certain information on our card products and services and that, if customer funds are unclaimed at the end of an applicable statutory abandonment period, the proceeds of the unclaimed property be remitted to the appropriate jurisdiction. We manage escheatment law compliance with respect to our card products and services and have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. Statutory abandonment periods applicable to our card products and services typically range from three to seven years. 

Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws 

In the ordinary course of our business, we collect certain types of data, which subjects us to certain privacy and information security laws in the United States, including, for example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, or the GLB Act, and other laws or rules designed to regulate consumer information and mitigate identity theft. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. These state and federal laws impose obligations with respect to the collection, processing, storage, disposal, use and disclosure of personal information, and require that financial institutions have in place policies regarding information privacy and security. In addition, under federal and certain state financial privacy laws, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies and practices for sharing nonpublic information with third parties, provide advance notice of any changes to our policies and, with limited exceptions, give consumers the right to prevent use of their nonpublic personal information and disclosure of it to unaffiliated third parties. Certain state laws may, in some circumstances, require us to notify affected individuals of security breaches of computer databases that contain their personal information. These laws may also require us to notify state law enforcement, regulators or consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach, as well as businesses and governmental agencies that own data. In order to comply with the privacy and information safeguard laws, we have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with network acceptance members and our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws evolve regularly, requiring us to adjust our compliance program on an ongoing basis and presenting compliance challenges. 

Banking Regulations 

We became a bank holding company in December 2011, as a result of our acquisition of Bonneville Bancorp, the holding company of Bonneville Bank, a state-chartered Utah bank, which was renamed Green Dot Bank after the acquisition. We and our subsidiary bank are extensively regulated under federal and state laws, which, in general, results in increased compliance costs and other expenses, as we and our subsidiary bank are required to undergo regular on-site examinations and to comply with additional reporting requirements. As a bank holding company, we are subject to the supervision of, and inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board and the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and are subject to certain regulations which, among other things, restrict our business and the activities in which we may engage. Our existing business activities and currently proposed business activities are not materially restricted by these regulations. 

Activities. Federal laws restrict the types of activities in which bank holding companies may engage, and subject them to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and policies. Bank holding companies may engage in the business of banking and managing and controlling banks, as well as closely related activities. In addition, financial holding companies may engage in a wider set of activities, including with respect to securities activities and investments in companies engaged in nonbanking activities. The business activities that we currently conduct are permissible activities for bank holding companies under U.S. law, and we do not expect the limitations described above will adversely affect our current operations or materially restrict us from engaging in 

activities that are currently contemplated by our business strategies. It is possible, however, that these restrictions could limit our ability to enter other businesses in which we may wish to engage at some time in the future. It is also possible that in the future these laws may be amended in ways, or new laws or regulations may be adopted, that adversely affect our ability to engage in our current or additional businesses. 

Even if our activities are permissible for a bank holding company, as discussed under &#8220;&#8212; Capital Adequacy&#8221; below, the Federal Reserve Board has the authority to order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to require divestiture of ownership or control of a subsidiary in the event that it has reasonable cause to believe that the activity or continued ownership or control poses a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of the bank holding company or any of its bank subsidiaries. 

Dividend Restrictions. Bank holding companies are subject to various restrictions that may affect their ability to pay dividends. Federal and state banking regulations applicable to bank holding companies and banks generally require that dividends be paid from earnings and, as described under &#8220;&#8212; Capital Adequacy&#8221; below, require minimum levels of capital, which limits the funds available for payment of dividends. Other restrictions include the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s general policy that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available to stockholders for the preceding year or four quarters and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s expected future needs and financial condition, including the needs of each of its bank subsidiaries. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policies and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% level unless both their asset quality and capital are very strong. A bank holding company also should not maintain a dividend level that places undue pressure on the capital of its bank subsidiaries, or that may undermine the bank holding company&#8217;s ability to serve as a source of strength for its bank subsidiaries. See &#8220;&#8212; Source of Strength&#8221; below. 

Capital Adequacy. Bank holding companies and banks are subject to various requirements relating to capital adequacy, including limitations on leverage. As a bank holding company that is a financial holding company, we are required to be &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; meaning we must maintain certain capital and leverage requirements. Our subsidiary bank is also subject to separate capital and leverage requirements that we have committed to with the Federal Reserve Board and Utah Department of Financial Institutions. As of December 31, 2015 , we and our subsidiary bank are each &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; under the above standards and presently exceed our respective capital and leverage commitments. 

Under the regulatory framework that Congress has established and bank regulators have implemented, banks are either &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Banks are generally subject to greater restrictions and supervision than bank holding companies, and these restrictions increase as the financial condition of the bank worsens. For instance, a bank that is not well-capitalized may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without the consent of the FDIC. If our subsidiary bank were to become less than adequately capitalized, the bank would need to submit to bank regulators a capital restoration plan that was guaranteed by us, as its bank holding company. The bank would also likely become subject to further restrictions on activities, such as entering into new lines of business, or would be required to conduct activities that have the effect of limiting asset growth or preventing acquisitions. A bank that is undercapitalized would also be prohibited from making capital distributions, including dividends, and from paying management fees to its bank holding company if the institution would be undercapitalized after any such distribution or payment. A significantly undercapitalized institution would be subject to mandatory capital raising activities, restrictions on interest rates paid and transactions with affiliates, removal of management and other restrictions. The FDIC has only very limited discretion in dealing with a critically undercapitalized institution and is virtually required to appoint a receiver or conservator. As &#32; of December 31, 2015 , Green Dot Bank remained well-capitalized. The Bank also met the definition of well-capitalized at its most recent examination date. 

For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Capital Management" below and Note 21 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 

Source of Strength. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may theoretically be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when the bank holding company might otherwise determine not to provide it. As noted above, if a bank becomes less than adequately capitalized, it would need to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan that, in order to be acceptable, would need to be guaranteed by the parent holding company. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee 

and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board is required to adopt new regulations formally requiring bank holding companies to serve as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions. The Federal Reserve Board has not yet proposed rules to implement this requirement. 

Acquisitions of Bank Holding Companies. Under the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, and their respective implementing regulations, Federal Reserve Board approval is necessary prior to any person or company acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company, subject to certain exceptions. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities, and may be presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or more of any class of voting securities. These restrictions could affect the willingness or ability of a third party to acquire control of us for so long as we are a bank holding company particularly if the third party was not also a bank holding company. 

Deposit Insurance and Deposit Insurance Assessments. Deposits accepted by banks, such as our subsidiary bank, have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, the level of which depends on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. These rates currently range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on deposits. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule semi-annually, and has in the past required and may in the future require banks to prepay their estimated assessments for future periods. The Dodd-Frank Act changes the method of calculating deposit assessments, requiring the FDIC to assess premiums on the basis of assets less tangible stockholders&#8217; equity. The FDIC has indicated that this change will likely result in a lower assessment rate because of the larger assessment base. Because of the current stress on the FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund resulting from the banking crisis, those fees have increased and are likely to stay at a relatively high level. 

Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, or CRA, and the regulations promulgated by the FDIC to implement the CRA are intended to ensure that banks meet the credit needs of their respective service areas, including low and moderate income communities and individuals, consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The CRA regulations also require the banking regulatory authorities to evaluate a bank&#8217;s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish new offices or consummate any merger or acquisition transaction. The federal banking agencies are required to rate each insured institution&#8217;s performance under the CRA and to make that information publicly available. Our subsidiary bank currently complies with the CRA through investments and other activities that are designed to benefit the needs of low and moderate income communities. 

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders. Transactions between a bank and its nonbanking affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. These regulations limit the types and amount of these transactions, require certain levels of collateral for loans to affiliated parties and generally require those transactions to be on an arm&#8217;s-length basis. As a bank holding company, transactions between Green Dot Bank and us, including our nonbanking subsidiaries, are limited by these regulations, although we do not anticipate that these restrictions will adversely affect our ability to conduct our current operations or materially prohibit us from engaging in activities that are currently contemplated by our business strategies. 

Issuing Banks . All of the GPR cards that we provide and the Walmart gift cards we service are issued by Green Dot Bank or either a federally- or state-chartered third-party bank. Thus, we are subject to the oversight of the regulators for, and certain laws applicable to, these card issuing banks. These banking laws require us, as a servicer to the banks that issue our cards, to among other things, undertake compliance actions similar to those described under &#8220;Anti-Money Laundering Laws&#8221; above and comply with the privacy regulations promulgated under the GLB Act as discussed under &#8220;Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws&#8221; above. Our subsidiary bank is subject to the additional regulatory oversight and legal obligations described above, in its capacity as issuing bank of our GPR cards. 

Other. The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board, have a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Moreover, additional changes to banking laws and regulations are possible in the near future. The Dodd-Frank Act made numerous changes to the regulatory framework governing banking organizations. Our costs and revenues could be negatively impacted as additional final rules of the Dodd-Frank Act are adopted. 

Consumer Protection Laws 

We are subject to state and federal consumer protection laws, including laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices, regulating electronic fund transfers and protecting consumer nonpublic information. We believe that we have appropriate procedures in place for compliance with these consumer protection laws, but many issues regarding our service have not yet been addressed by the federal and state agencies charged with interpreting the applicable laws. 

In order to permit the direct deposit of Federal benefits and other Federal funds to our products, we comply with the requirements of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act of the Federal Reserve Board, or Regulation E, as they relate to payroll cards, including disclosure of the terms of our electronic fund transfer services to consumers prior to their use of the service, 21 days ' &#32;advance notice of material changes, specific error resolution procedures and timetables, and limits on customer liability for transactions that are not authorized by the consumer. 

In December 2014, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, issued a notice of proposed rulemaking requesting comment on proposed amendments to Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act. The proposed rules seek to, among other things, create comprehensive consumer protections for prepaid financial products, create a new disclosure regime regarding fees charged for acquiring and using prepaid cards, and impose new requirements on any credit features associated with prepaid accounts. If the CFPB's rulemaking or other new regulations or laws result in changes in the way we are regulated, these regulations could expose us to increased regulatory oversight, more burdensome regulation of our business, and increased litigation risk, each of which could increase our costs and decrease our operating revenues. 

Payment Networks 

In order to provide our products and services, we, as well as our subsidiary bank, Green Dot Bank, are contracted members with Visa and MasterCard and, as a result, are subject to payment network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the payment networks for certain acts or omissions. Visa and MasterCard set the standards with which we and the card issuing banks must comply. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,012 employees, including 703 in general and administrative, 51 in sales and marketing, and 258 in research and product development. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and consider relations with our employees to be good. 

