 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General 

Gencor Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;Gencor&#148;, &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148; or &#147;our&#148;) is a leading manufacturer of heavy machinery used in the production of highway construction materials, synthetic fuels, and environmental control equipment. The Company&#146;s products are manufactured in two facilities in the United States. The Company&#146;s products are sold through a combination of Company sales representatives and independent dealers and agents located throughout the world. 

The Company designs, manufactures and sells machinery and related equipment used primarily for the production of asphalt and highway construction materials. The Company&#146;s principal core products include asphalt plants, combustion systems and fluid heat transfer systems. The Company believes that its technical and design capabilities, environmentally friendly process technology, and wide range of products have enabled it to become a leading producer of highway construction materials, synthetic fuels and environmental control equipment worldwide. The Company believes it has the largest installed base of asphalt production plants in the United States. 

Because the Company&#146;s products are sold primarily to the highway construction industry, the business is seasonal in nature. Traditionally, the Company&#146;s customers do not purchase new equipment for shipment during the summer and fall months to avoid disrupting their peak season for highway construction and repair work. The majority of orders for the Company&#146;s products are typically received between October and February, with a significant volume of shipments occurring prior to June. The principal factors driving demand for the Company&#146;s products are the level of government funding for domestic highway construction and repair, replacement of existing plants, the need for spare parts, and a continuing trend towards larger plants. 

In 1968, the Company was formed by the merger of Mechtron Corporation with General Combustion, Inc. and Genco Manufacturing, Inc. The new entity reincorporated in Delaware in 1969 and adopted the name Mechtron International Corporation in 1970. In 1985, the Company began a series of acquisitions into related fields starting with the Beverley Group Ltd. in the United Kingdom (the &#147;UK&#148;). Hy-Way Heat Company, Inc. and the Bituma Group were acquired in 1986. In 1987, the Company changed its name to Gencor Industries, Inc. and acquired Davis Line Inc. and its subsidiaries in 1988. 

&#160;

In 1998, the Company entered into agreements with Carbontronics, LLC (&#147;CLLC&#148;) pursuant to which the Company designed, manufactured, sold and installed four synthetic fuel production plants. In addition to payment for the plants, the Company received membership interests in two synthetic fuel entities. These derived significant cash flow from the sale of synthetic fuel and tax credits (Internal Revenue Code, Section 29) and consequently distributed significant cash to the Company beginning in 2001 and through 2010. 

The tax credit legislation expired at the end of calendar year 2007. Consequently, the four synthetic fuel plants were decommissioned. The plants were sold or transferred to site owners in exchange for a release of all contracted liabilities related to the removal of plants from the sites. Gencor no longer has any ownership in the two synthetic fuel entities. 

Products 

Asphalt Plants . The Company manufactures and produces hot-mix asphalt plants used in the production of asphalt paving materials. The Company also manufactures related asphalt plant equipment, including hot mix storage silos, fabric filtration systems, cold feed bins and other plant components. The Company&#146;s H&#38;B (Hetherington and Berner) product line is the world&#146;s oldest asphalt plant line, first manufactured in 1894. The Company&#146;s subsidiary, Bituma Corporation, formerly known as Boeing Construction Company, developed the first continuous process for asphalt production. Gencor developed and patented the first counter flow drum mix technology, several adaptations of which have become the industry standard, which recaptures and burns emissions and vapors, resulting in a cleaner and more efficient process. The Company also manufactures a very comprehensive range of fully mobile batch plants. 

Combustion Systems and Industrial Incinerators . The Company manufactures combustion systems, which are large burners that can transform most solid, liquid or gaseous fuels into usable energy, or burn multiple fuels, alternately or simultaneously. Through its subsidiary General Combustion, the Company has been a significant source of combustion systems for the asphalt and aggregate drying industries since the 1950&#146;s. The Company also manufactures soil remediation machinery, as well as combustion systems for rotary dryers, kilns, fume and liquid incinerators and fuel heaters. The Company believes maintenance and fuel costs are lower for its burners because of their superior design. 

Fluid Heat Transfer Systems . The Company&#146;s General Combustion subsidiary also manufactures the Hy-Way heat and Beverley lines of thermal fluid heat transfer systems and specialty storage tanks for a wide array of industry uses. Thermal fluid heat transfer systems are similar to boilers, but use high temperature oil instead of water. Thermal fluid heaters have been replacing steam pressure boilers as the best method of heat transfer for storage, heating and pumping viscous materials (i.e., asphalt, chemicals, heavy oils, etc.) in many industrial and petrochemical applications worldwide. The Company believes the high efficiency design of its thermal fluid heaters can outperform competitive units in many types of process applications. 

Product Engineering and Development 

The Company is engaged in product engineering and development efforts to expand its product lines and to further develop more energy-efficient and environmentally compatible systems. 

Product engineering and development activities are directed toward more efficient methods of producing asphalt and lower cost fluid heat transfer systems. In addition, efforts are also focused on developing combustion systems that operate at higher efficiency and offer a higher level of environmental compatibility. 

Sources of Supply and Manufacturing 

Substantially all products and components sold by the Company and its subsidiaries are manufactured and assembled by the Company, except for procured raw materials and hardware. The Company purchases a large quantity of steel, raw materials and hardware used to manufacture its products from hundreds of suppliers and is not dependent on any single supplier. Periodically, the Company reviews the cost effectiveness of internal 

&#160;

manufacturing versus outsourcing to independent third parties. The Company believes it has the internal capability to produce the highest quality products at the lowest cost. The Company may augment internal production by outsourcing some of its production when demand for its products exceeds its manufacturing capacity. 

Seasonality 

The Company is concentrated in the manufacturing of asphalt plants and related components which is typically subject to a seasonal slow-down during the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. 

Competition 

The markets for the Company&#146;s products are highly competitive. The industry remains fairly concentrated, with a small number of companies competing for the majority of the Company&#146;s product lines&#146; sales. The principal competitive factors include quality and technology. The Company believes it manufactures the highest quality and heaviest equipment in the industry. Its products&#146; performance reliability, brand recognition, pricing and after-the-sale technical support are other important factors.

Sales and Marketing 

The Company&#146;s products and services are marketed through a combination of Company-employed sales representatives and independent dealers and agents. 

Sales Backlog 

The size of the Company&#146;s backlog should not be viewed as an indicator of the Company&#146;s quarterly or annualized revenues due to the timing of order fulfillment of asphalt plants. The Company&#146;s backlog, which includes orders received through the date of this filing, was $32.1 million and $20.3 million as of December 1, 2016 and December 1, 2015, respectively. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas Reporting Segments 

For a geographic breakdown of revenues and long-term assets see the table captioned Reporting Segments in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Licenses, Patents and Trademarks 

The Company holds numerous patents covering technology and applications related to various products, equipment and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in various foreign countries. In general, the Company depends upon technological capabilities, manufacturing quality control and application know-how, rather than patents or other proprietary rights in the conduct of its business. The Company believes the expiration of any one of these patents, or a group of related patents, would not have a material adverse effect on the overall operations of the Company. 

Government Regulations 

The Company believes its design and manufacturing processes meet all industry and governmental agency standards that may apply to its entire line of products, including all domestic and foreign environmental, structural, electrical and safety codes. The Company&#146;s products are designed and manufactured to comply with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations. Certain state and local regulatory authorities have strong environmental impact regulations. While the Company believes that such regulations have helped, rather than restricted its marketing efforts and sales results, there is no assurance that changes to federal, state, local, or foreign laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company&#146;s products and earnings in the future. 

Environmental Matters 

The Company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The Company believes it is in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company does not expect any material impact on future operating costs as a result of compliance with currently enacted environmental regulations. 

&#160;

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, the Company had a total of 273 full-time employees. The Company has a collective bargaining agreement covering production and maintenance employees at its Marquette, Iowa facility. No other employees are represented by a labor union or collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

For further discussion concerning the Company&#146;s business, see the information included in Item 7 (Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Item 8 (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) of this Report. 

The Company makes available free of charge through its website at www.gencor.com the Company&#146;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, if applicable, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The information posted on the website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

