 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BUSINESS

We are an established global gaming company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and acquisition of proprietary casino table games and associated technology, platforms and systems for the casino gaming industry. We are a leading supplier of gaming entertainment products worldwide and provide a diverse offering of quality products and services at competitive prices, designed to enhance the player&#8217;s experience.

History and Development of Galaxy Gaming

In 1997, Galaxy Gaming&#8217;s founder and President, Robert Saucier, was an investor in a small casino in Washington State. The casino had ten tables, primarily blackjack. During his tenure at this casino, Mr. Saucier invented a side bet for the casino game of blackjack known as Horseshoe Blackjack . The side bet became very popular and the casino&#8217;s winnings from the games increased significantly. On October 7, 1997, Galaxy Gaming Corporation (&#8220;GGCORP&#8221;) was formed and Mr. Saucier exchanged all of his rights, title and interest in his invention for stock in the corporation. Other Washington casinos recognized the popularity and profitability of this side bet and requested intellectual property licenses to offer the Horseshoe Blackjack side bet at their casinos. GGCORP modified the invention, changed its name to Lucky Ladies and filed for a method patent, which was later granted.

In 2002, the business and assets of GGCORP was acquired by Galaxy Gaming, LLC (&#8220;GGLLC&#8221;). Lucky Ladies remained GGLLC&#8217;s only product until late 2002, when it debuted a new casino poker game called Texas Shootout . This game quickly became popular with casinos and their customers. GGLLC increased its sales force and expanded distribution into new jurisdictions. Subsequently, GGLLC grew methodically and intentionally by reinvesting earnings and introducing new products at a regular pace. Galaxy Gaming, Inc. (&#8220;GGINC&#8221;) was formed in 2006 and in 2007, the assets and business operations of GGLLC were acquired by GGINC. In February 2009, GGINC executed a share exchange and reverse merger with Secured Diversified Investment, Ltd. (&#8220;SDI&#8221;). On September 1, 2009, the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors approved a merger with the SDI&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiary, GGINC, pursuant to Nev. Rev. Stat 92A.180 (&#8220;Short Form Merger&#8221;). As part of the Short Form Merger, the Board authorized a change in the name of the company formerly known as SDI to &#8220;Galaxy Gaming, Inc.,&#8221; which remains the operating company as of the date of this Report. 

Casinos use our proprietary products to enhance their gaming floor operations and improve their profitability, productivity and security, as well as to offer popular cutting-edge gaming entertainment content and technology to their players. We market our products to land-based, riverboat, cruise ship and internet gaming companies. The game concepts and the intellectual property associated with these games are typically protected by patents, trademarks and/or copyrights. We market our products primarily via our internal sales force to casinos throughout North America, the Caribbean, the British Isles, Europe, Australia and Africa and to cruise ships and internet gaming sites worldwide. We currently have an installed base of our products on over 5,000 gaming tables located in about 600 casinos, which positions us as the second largest provider of proprietary table games in the world.

We group our products into four product categories we classify as &#8220;Proprietary Table Games,&#8221; &#8220;Enhanced Table Systems,&#8221; &#8220;e-Tables&#8221; and &#8220;Ancillary Equipment.&#8221; Our product categories are summarized below. Additional information regarding our products may be found on our website, www.galaxygaming.com. Information found on the website should not be considered part of this report.

Proprietary Table Games. We design, develop and deliver our Proprietary Table Games to enhance our casino clients&#8217; table game operations. Casinos use our Proprietary Table Games in lieu of those games in the public domain (e.g. Blackjack, Craps, Roulette, etc.) because of their popularity with players and to increase profitability. Our Proprietary Table Games are grouped into two product types we call &#8220;Side Bets&#8221; and &#8220;Premium Games.&#8221; Side Bets are proprietary features and wagering schemes typically added to public domain games such as poker, baccarat, pai gow poker, craps and blackjack table games. Examples of our Side Bet games include Lucky Ladies , 21+3 and Bonus Craps . Premium Games are unique stand-alone Proprietary Table Games with their own unique set of rules and strategies. Examples of our Premium Games include High Card Flush , Three Card Poker and Texas Shootout . Generally, Premium Games generate higher revenue per table placement than the Side Bet games. Internally, we track revenue by each of our Proprietary Table Games. We do not internally track direct costs associated with the revenue of each of our proprietary casino games since it would require subjective allocations of common costs. 

Enhanced Table Systems. Enhanced Table Systems are electronic enhancements used on casino table games to add to player appeal and to enhance game security. We include three products in this category: our Bonus Jackpot System, our Inter-Casino Jackpot System and MEGA-Share. 

Enhanced Table Systems: Bonus Jackpot System. The Bonus Jackpot System facilitates a jackpot that players can win by making a qualified wager. The jackpot is awarded to a player (or players) upon obtaining a specific triggering event. Our Bonus Jackpot System can facilitate either a stagnant, adjustable or progressive style jackpot. 

The Bonus Jackpot System is an advanced electronic system installed on gaming tables that is used to detect players&#8217; wagers, evaluate game play, determine dealer efficiency and to assist in calculating jackpots and bonusing offerings. The Bonus Jack pot System also includes an electronic display system used on gaming tables to display game information to the players known as TableVision. Casinos use TableVision as an enhanced display to generate additional player interest and to promote various aspect s of the game offered such as jackpots and bonusing programs. The Bonus Jackpot System allows the casino to seamlessly collect and process data and in turn, offer jackpots and other bonusing schemes to their players as determined by them using the data col lected and processed. 

The most current version of the Bonus Jackpot System as of the date of this Report is the Andromeda 4, which allows for sensors for up to 16 player positions and up to 6 sensors per player position (maximum total of 96 data gathering points). Sensors can be placed discreetly under the felt or be an enhanced sensor with a multi-colored LED light. The enhanced sensors increase security and reliability while providing the player with a positive indication a wager has been recorded. Another feature of our Bonus Jackpot system is the ability to keep track of and display more than one jackpot. This ability, combined with the expansion of multiple sensors, permits us to offer a unique bonusing system called &#8220;MEGA-Share&#8221; to our casino clients.

Enhanced Table Systems: Inter-Casino Jackpot System. We leverage the abilities of our Bonus Jackpot System to connect and/or aggregate bonus or progressive jackpots from multiple casinos into a common network. This methodology has long been practiced in the slot machine industry beginning with the introduction of IGT&#8217;s Megabucks in the 1990&#8217;s. These systems are referred to as &#8220;wide area progressives&#8221; and nearly every major slot machine manufacturer has a wide area progressive system. We developed our version of a wide area progressive jackpot system for table games that we call the Inter-Casino Jackpot System. We receive compensation by collecting a transaction fee from our casino clients either based upon their players&#8217; participation in the Inter-Casino Jackpot System or a flat monthly fee. 

Enhanced Table Systems: MEGA-Share. MEGA-Share is a game-play methodology invented by us that allows a player of one of our table games to share in the winnings of a jackpot together with other players. An example of this concept would be when multiple table game players are playing in a casino. When one player obtains a winning hand entitling him or her to a jackpot, the event also triggers a second MEGA-Share jackpot that is divided among all players who made a MEGA-Share qualified wager. MEGA-Share rewards the other players playing on other tables, other games, or even other casinos with a share of the MEGA-Share jackpot, provided that they placed a qualifying MEGA-Share wager. We believe the Bonus Jackpot System and MEGA-Share may offer casinos an opportunity to significantly increase player interest, thereby increasing casino revenues and generating increased recurring revenue for us. 

e-Tables. In 2011, we licensed the worldwide rights (excluding Oklahoma, Kentucky and the Caribbean) to the TableMAX e-Table system. Simultaneously we obtained e-Table rights to the casino table games Caribbean Stud , Caribbean Draw , Progressive Blackjack , Texas Hold&#8217;em Bonus and Blackjack Bullets . A description of this agreement is contained in Note 17 of our audited financial statements included in Item 8. The TableMAX e-Table system is a fully automated, dealer-less, multi-player electronic table game platform. These platforms allow us to offer our table game content in markets where live table games are not permitted. Our e-Table product enables the automation of certain components of traditional table games such as data collection, placement of bets, collection of losing bets and payment of winning bets. This automation provides benefits to both casino operators and players, including greater security and faster speed of play, reduced labor and other game related costs and increased profitability. 

Ancillary Equipment. &#160; In 2014, we licensed the worldwide rights to a patented technology that detects invisible card markings. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of businesses that offer tools that allow individuals to cheat casinos and card rooms. These businesses, typically located in China or Eastern Europe, are booming due to the significant revenues they are deriving from sales of cheating products all around the world. These products typically include daubs or inks that can be used by players to mark cards. The markings can only be seen by using discrete technology, special glasses or contact lenses. If a player is able to recognize any face down cards on the table or next card to be dealt, the player can obtain a significant edge resulting in an unfair game and potential significant loses to casinos or other players. Upon licensing, we further refined and developed the technology which has been branded as SpectrumVision. The SpectrumVision technology utilizes highly specialized and customized optics to see markings on playing cards that would otherwise be invisible or undetectable to the naked eye and surveillance cameras. SpectrumVision has the ability to see such marking using the entire spectrum of ultra-violet, infrared and natural light. Units of SpectrumVision began shipping in 2015. 

Our revenues consist primarily of recurring royalties received from our clients for the licensing of our game content and other products. Typically over 95% of our total revenues are recurring. In 2015, recurring revenues represented 99% of our total revenues. These recurring revenues generally have few direct costs thereby generating high gross profit margins in excess of 90%. In lieu of reporting as &#8220;gross profit,&#8221; this amount would be comparable to &#8220;revenues less cost of ancillary products and assembled components&#8221; on our financial statements. Additionally, we receive non-recurring revenue as reimbursement from the sale of associated products.

A significant portion of our business is conducted with four large clients who operate numerous casinos throughout North American and the United Kingdom. Aggregated revenues from these significant clients accounted for approximately 33.6% of revenues in 2015 and 2014.

For more information about our revenues, operating income and assets, see &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; included in this Form 10-K. 

STRATEGY

We believe that entertaining casino games will enhance players&#8217; experiences and generate brand loyalty, resulting in increased profits for our casino clients. We continue to expand our product offering by focusing on innovative products and services. As we continue to develop and enhance our brand names and reputation, we anticipate expanding to new product lines that complement our overall strategy and enhance our market presence.

Our long-term business strategy is designed to enhance client value by producing products that players enjoy playing. We believe that we will enhance shareholder value by capitalizing on existing and emerging markets and the worldwide proliferation of gaming and continuing to build our recurring revenues. To achieve both of these objectives, we employ the following strategies:

&#160;

1. 

Expand our inventory of products and technologies to attain a fully comprehensive portfolio;

&#160;

2. 

Increase our per unit price point by leveraging our Enhanced Table Systems;

&#160;

3. 

Grow our e-Table and ancillary product business; and

&#160;

4. 

Expand our revenues from ancillary products.

Expand our inventory of products and technologies to attain a fully comprehensive portfolio. Historically, only one company in the table game industry, Scientific Games, Inc. (formerly SHFL Entertainment, Inc.) (&#8220;Scientific Games&#8221;), has had the ability to offer casinos nearly all of the table game products they require. Scientific Game&#8217;ss unique ability to offer numerous products both in terms of game content and what they term as &#8220;utility&#8221; products (e.g. card shufflers, smart dealing shoes, baccarat displays, etc.), has stifled competition from other companies, including us, who are disadvantaged without a complete product line offering. Our strategy is to be an alternative for casino operators by offering a complete and comprehensive portfolio of games, products, systems, technologies and methodologies for casino table games. If we achieve this objective, we intend to offer complete turn-key systems rather than compete solely as a purveyor of individual products. We continuously develop and/or seek to acquire new proprietary table games to complement our existing offerings and to extend our penetration of proprietary table games on the casino floor. We expect to accomplish this strategic shift through internal development of products as well as continued acquisitions from others. 

Our first preference is to develop internally our products and intellectual property. Our engineering team works to develop new cutting-edge table game content and ancillary products. Together they have been responsible for the continued development of our Proprietary Table Games and Enhanced Table Systems. We intend to further expand our product line including so-called &#8220;utility&#8221; products now offered by our competitors through our continued research, design, development and engineering efforts.

In addition, we are constantly seeking to acquire marketable products developed by others. Since 2010, we have made a number of successful asset acquisitions. In October 2011, we acquired over 20 different table games, including 21+3 , Two-way Hold&#8217;em and Three Card Poker from Prime Table Games. The Prime Table Games intellectual property portfolio included 47 patents and patents pending, 96 worldwide trademark and design registrations and 47 domain name registrations. Since 2011, we have developed the intellectual property into products such as World Poker Tour&#174; Heads Up Hold&#8217;em , Four Card Frenzy , Three Card Prime , Cajun Stud and Commission Free Emperor&#8217;s Challenge . Those games are currently played on approximately 2,200 tables in over 250 casinos in the world. In November 2011, we acquired the table games Bonus Craps , Four The Money , Rainbow Poker and Roulette Craps together with nine patents, various trademarks and an assignment of existing licensing agreements with various casinos throughout the United States from Lakes Entertainment, Inc. In March 2012, we acquired Double Action Blackjack as a result of a settlement with Unax Service, LLC. In September 2012, we acquired High Card Flush from Red Card Gaming, Inc., which had earned two gaming industry awards: the 2012 Casino Journal&#8217;s &#8220;Best New Table Game,&#8221; as voted on by casino table game managers and &#8220;Best Traditional Table Game&#8221; as awarded by Casino Enterprise Management Magazine. Please also see &#8220;Item 3 Legal Proceedings&#8221; with respect to enforcement of our Rights against Red Card Gaming, Inc. and AGS, LLC. In 2014, we acquired Lucky Win Baccarat to enhance our Baccarat game portfolio, and exclusive rights to proprietary technology used to develop SpectrumVision, our card marking detection system. In March 2015, we licensed exclusive rights to a side-bet for roulette which we have branded as TRIO-lette.

We anticipate the continued acquisition and/or development of additional new proprietary table games and associated intellectual property. When combined with our existing portfolio, new proprietary games will give us the comprehensive spectrum of products to offer casinos a complete solution, thereby increasing our competitiveness in the marketplace.

Increase our per unit price point by leveraging our Enhanced Table Systems. Our Enhanced Table Systems permit us the opportunity to significantly increase the amount of recurring revenue we receive from each table game placement. Accordingly, our goal is to concentrate on installing new game placements using one or more of our Enhanced Table Systems and to convert our existing Proprietary Table Game placements that currently do not incorporate our Enhanced Table Systems. We have modified most of our Premium Table Games and many of our Side Bets to benefit from the economics this new system affords us. In the future, we intend to be able to offer this platform for all games. 

Additionally, we expect that most or all of our new Proprietary Table Games will facilit ate the Bonus Jackpot System component. The technology developed with the Bonus Jackpot System has allowed us to offer not only bonus jackpots and progressive jackpots, but also provides us the infrastructure to offer our Inter-Casino Jackpot System and ME GA-Share. 

MEGA-Share and our Inter-Casino Jackpot System are unrelated but can be combined if so desired by our clients. A casino could operate either or both simultaneously.

Grow our e-Table business. Our TableMAX product line is developed for us by TableMAX Corporation. Having installed the majority of TableMAX e-Tables we received from TableMax Corporation, we are awaiting the next major release of the TableMAX e-Table, referred to as the &#8220;Model E.&#8221; In 2013, we were informed by TableMAX Corporation that the Model E&#8217;s development was completed. We have acquired the requisite approvals for the Model E in 2013 and began offering this product to gaming operators in late 2014. 

Expand our ancillary product revenues. The new SpectrumVision product is the result of an exclusive license we obtained in 2014. A prototype of SpectrumVision was showcased in our booth at G2E in September 2014 and the World Game Protection Conference in March 2015, where it received significant interest from table game operators and surveillance managers around the world. We expect SpectrumVision will be a product that every casino &#38; card room operator will need as a deterrent and surveillance tool. In addition to industry utilizing the product, we expect gaming regulators to use the device to assist in suspected cheating investigations. Since obtaining the exclusive license, we have employed an outsourcing strategy to design and manufacture a final SpectrumVision product, which we began shipping in 2015. 

COMPETITION

We compete with other gaming products and supply companies for space on the casino floor, as well as for our client&#8217;s capital spending. Our competition for casino placement and the attention of players comes from a variety of sources, including companies that design and market proprietary table games, electronic table game platforms, e-Tables and other gaming products.

With respect to our Proprietary Table Games, we compete with several companies which primarily develop and license proprietary table games. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Scientific Games, AGS, DEQ Systems, TCS/John Huxley, and Masque Publishing. Competition in this product group is particularly based on price, brand recognition, player appeal and the strength of underlying intellectual property. Smaller developers and vendors are more able to participate in developing and marketing table games, compared to other gaming products, because of the lower cost and complexity associated with the development of these products and a generally less stringent regulatory environment. Larger competitors typically have superior capital resources, distribution and product inventory than we do. We compete on these bases, as well as on the strength of our extensive sales, service and distribution channels. We have been able to increase our placements of table games not only because of the general growth of casino gaming, but also by displacing other proprietary and public domain table game products.

With respect to our Enhanced Table Systems, we compete primarily with Scientific Games, DEQ Systems and TCS/John Huxley. Scientific Games has a progressive jackpot system it uses with its proprietary table games. DEQ Systems, which has limited game content, often uses its platform with other companies&#8217; games including ours and those of Scientific Games. TCS/John Huxley has introduced a bonusing platform available for public domain games, and has limited game content.

With respect to our e-Table system, there are numerous other companies that manufacture and/or sell e-Tables that are similar. These companies include, but are not limited to, TCS/John Huxley, Aristocrat, Interblock, Aruze Gaming Corporation, Novomatic Industries, Multimedia Games and Scientific Games. Our e-Tables, as well as those of other companies, also compete for casino floor space with live table games and slots. One of our competitive strengths in this segment is the ability to offer our proprietary table game titles on e-Table platforms.

Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand recognition and more firmly established supply relationships. Moreover, we expect additional competitors to emerge in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include products that appeal to casinos and players, jurisdictional approvals and a well-developed sales and distribution network. Although we plan to compete effectively in this market, we recognize that this market is relatively new and is evolving rapidly, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. We believe that our success will depend upon our ability to remain competitive in our field. We compete with others in efforts to obtain or create innovative products, obtain financing, acquire other gaming companies, and license and distribute products. The failure to compete successfully in the market for proprietary table games, electronic table game platforms and multi-casino jackpots could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We believe we have competitive advantages resulting from broad alliances and lengthy business relationships with our clients and an extensive intellectual property portfolio. Our historically high levels of customer service and support, worldwide name and brand recognition and geographic diversity are also competitive assets. We believe our reputation for consistently delivering and supporting quality products will encourage operators to select our products and enable us to maintain and create a substantial market position.

MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS 

We obtain most of the parts for our products from third party suppliers, including both off-the-shelf items as well as components manufactured to our specifications. We also manufacture a small number of parts in-house that are used both for product assembly and for servicing existing products. We generally perform warehousing, quality control, final assembly and shipping ourselves from our facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada, although small inventories are maintained and repairs are performed by our field service employees. We believe that our sources of supply for components and raw materials are adequate and that alternative sources of materials are available.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

While we are committed to growing the sales of our marketed products, we strive to maintain a robust pipeline of products under development to bring to market. We employ a staff of electrical, mechanical and software engineers, graphic artists and game developers to support, improve and upgrade our products and to develop and explore other potential table game products. We perform our research and development ourselves at our corporate offices. We also expect to use contracted third party developers to conduct research and development for certain product offerings.

We believe that one of our strengths is identifying new product opportunities and developing new products. Therefore we expect to continue to spend a significant portion of our annual revenues on research and development, including the acquisition of intellectual property and technology from third parties. We have incurred approximately $455,000 and $473,000 in research and development expenditures during 2015 and 2014, respectively. Consistent with our increased focus on development of new products, we anticipate significant increased research and development expenditures in 2016 and future years.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our products and the intellectual property associated with them are typically protected by patents, trademarks and copyrights. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could increase the likelihood of infringement. Furthermore, other companies could develop similar or superior products without violating our intellectual property rights. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, and distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail.

We have been and are subject to litigation claiming that we have infringed the rights of others and/or that certain of our patents and other intellectual property are invalid or unenforceable. We have also brought actions against others to protect our rights. A description of certain of these matters is contained in Note 12 of our audited financial statements, included in Item 8 and incorporated herein by this reference.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

We are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in most jurisdictions in which we offer our products. The manufacturing and distribution of casino games, gaming equipment, systems technology, and related services, as well as the operation of casinos, are all subject to regulation by a variety of federal, state, international, tribal, and local agencies with the majority of oversight provided by individual state gaming control boards. While the regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction, most require:

&#160;

&#183; 

Findings of suitability for the company, individual officers, directors, key employees and major shareholders; 

&#160;

&#183; 

Documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability; 

&#160;

&#183; 

Specific product approvals for gaming equipment manufacturers; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

Licenses, registrations and/or permits. 

Gaming regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and obtaining licenses, registrations, findings of suitability for our officers, directors, and principal stockholders and other required approvals with respect to us, our personnel and our products are time consuming and expensive. Generally, gaming regulatory authorities have broad discretionary powers and may deny applications for or revoke approvals on any basis they deem reasonable. We have approvals that enable us to conduct our business in numerous jurisdictions, subject in each case to the conditions of the particular approvals. These conditions may include limitations as to the type of game or product we may sell or lease, as well as limitations on the type of facility, such as riverboats, and the territory within which we may operate, such as tribal nations. We have authorizations with certain Native American tribes throughout the United States which have compacts with the states in which their tribal dominions are located or operate or propose to operate casinos. These tribes generally require suppliers of gaming and gaming-related equipment to obtain authorizations.

The nature of the industry and our worldwide operations make this process very time consuming and require extensive resources. We engage legal resources familiar with local customs in certain jurisdictions to assist in keeping us compliant with applicable regulations 

worldwide. Through this process, we seek to assure both regulators and investors that all our operations maintain the highest levels of integrity and avoid any appearance of impropriety. 

Gaming laws and regulations serve to protect the public interest and ensure gambling related activity is conducted honestly, competitively, and free of corruption. Regulatory oversight additionally ensures that the local authorities receive the appropriate amount of gaming tax revenues. As such, our financial systems and reporting functions must demonstrate high levels of detail and integrity.

We have obtained or applied for all required government licenses, permits, registrations, findings of suitability, and approvals necessary to manufacture and distribute gaming products in all jurisdictions where we directly operate. Although many regulations at each level are similar or overlapping, we must satisfy all conditions individually for each jurisdiction. We have never been denied a gaming related license, nor have our licenses ever been suspended or revoked.

Gaming jurisdictions. Gaming jurisdictions that have legalized gaming typically require various licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits, and approvals of manufacturers and distributors of gaming devices and equipment as well as licensure provisions related to changes in control. In general, such requirements involve restrictions and approvals. Additionally, we license and/or lease our products through licensed distributors. We offer our products throughout most of the United States, Canada, Caribbean, South Africa, United Kingdom and selected parts of Europe. 

Native American gaming regulation. Gaming on Native American lands within the United States is governed by the Federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (&#8220;IGRA&#8221;) and specific tribal ordinances and regulations. Class III gaming (table games and slot machines, for example), as defined under IGRA, also requires a Tribal-State Compact, which is a written agreement between a specific tribe and the respective state. This compact authorizes the type of Class III gaming activity and the standards, procedures and controls under which the Class III gaming activity must be conducted. The National Indian Gaming Commission (&#8220;NIGC&#8221;) has oversight authority over gaming on Native American lands and generally monitors tribal gaming, including the establishment and enforcement of required minimum internal control standards. Each tribe is sovereign and must have a tribal gaming commission or office established to regulate tribal gaming activity to ensure compliance with IGRA, NIGC, and its Tribal-State Compact. We have complied with each of the numerous vendors licensing and specific product approval and shipping notification requirements imposed by Tribal-State Compacts and enforced by tribal and/or state gaming agencies under IGRA in the Native American lands in which we do business. 

Application of future or additional regulatory requirements. In the future we intend to seek the necessary registrations, licenses, approvals, and findings of suitability for us, our products, and our personnel in other jurisdictions throughout the world. However, we may be unable to obtain such necessary items, or if such items are obtained, may be revoked, suspended, or conditioned. In addition, we may be unable to obtain on a timely basis, or to obtain at all, the necessary approvals of our future products as they are developed, even in those jurisdictions in which we already have existing products licensed or approved. If the necessary regulations are not sought after or the required approvals not received, we may be prohibited from selling our products in that jurisdiction or may be required to sell our products through other licensed entities at a reduced profit. 

EMPLOYEES 

We have seventeen full-time employees, including executive officers, management personnel, accounting personnel, office staff, sales staff, service technicians and research and development personnel. We employ four part-time employees. Our employees are co-employed by Advanstaff, Inc. a professional employer organization engaged by us to provide payroll and human resource services. As needed from time to time, we also pay for the services of independent contractors.

&#160;

&#160;

