 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

VGambling Inc., ("VGambling", "the Company", &#147;our&#148; or "we") was incorporated in Nevada on July 22, 2008. VGambling is a development-stage online gambling company and plans to offer wagering on eSports events and the ability to participate in video game tournaments for real-money in a licensed and secure environment.

The online gambling market represents one of the fastest growing segments of the gambling industry. H2 Gambling Capital, a leading supplier of data and market intelligence on the global gambling industry, estimates the current size of the global online gambling market is in excess of US$40 billion, with forecasts to exceed US$50 billion by 2017. Source: H2 Gambling Capital, Global Online Gambling Report, July 2014.

The eSports market represents the fastest growing sports market in the world. Approximately 205 million people watched or played eSports in 2014, according to market research firm Newzoo. Total eSports cash prizes surpassed $USD 40 million in 2015. According to Fortune Magazine, the eSports fan base will surpass the NFL by 2017, while Forbes magazine projects fans of eSports will wager $USD 23 Billion by 2020. 

eSports is the professionalization of video games. Contrary to its name, eSports does not involve video games of traditional sports such as football and basketball. Rather, eSports typically takes the form of organized, multiplayer video games that include real-time strategy, fighting, first-person shooter, and multiplayer online battle arena games. The best-known example of an eSports game among non-eSports enthusiasts is Call of Duty . Currently, however, the two most successful eSports games are Dota 2League of Legends ( a multiplayer online battle arena game) and Counter Strike: Global Offensive (a first person shooter game) . Other popular games include Smite , Starcraft II , Call of Duty &#184; Heroes of the Storm , and Hearthstone . eSports also includes games which can be played, primarily by amateurs, in multiplayer competitions such as WII (Nintendo), and Halo (343 Industries). 

Although official competitions have long been a part of video game culture, participation and spectatorship of such events have seen a massive global surge in popularity with the rapid growth of online streaming over the last few years. The advent of online streaming technology has turned eSports into a global industry that includes professional players and teams competing in major events that are simultaneously watched in person in stadiums (which are often sold out), as well as of online viewers (which regularly exceed 1,000,000 for major tournaments. The impact has been so significant, that many video game developers now build features into their games designed to facilitate competition.

VGambling intends to offer eSports enthusiasts from around the world, excluding the United States, the ability to wager on a wide variety of e-Sports events. VGambling intends to offer users the opportunity to wager against other users utilizing a peer-to-peer wagering system with no risk to the Company. VGambling plans to generate revenue from fees charged to players based on a percentage of the amount wagered on an event. VGambling intends to offer spectators the ability to wager on all major professional eSports events and a wide range of amateur eSports events.

VGambling also intends to offer users from around the world, excluding 13 States within the United States, the ability to participate in online video game tournaments and win cash prizes. Participants will be able to enter and play against each other with prize money distributed to the last remaining competitors. We will collect a percentage of tournament entry fees and will not have any of our own capital at risk. VGambling 

intends to offer users a wide selection of video games of skill to be played online for real money in both small groups and major tournaments.

VGambling will not offer online users traditional casino style games such as poker, craps or slots, nor will it offer online wagering on traditional sporting events like football or soccer. VGambling will be focused solely on offering online wagering on the widest range of eSports events broadcast from around the world, as well as, hosting online video game tournaments for enthusiasts.

Given the global demand for live eSports events, VGambling also intends to acquire the 62,000 square foot Grand Princess Casino in Antigua, for the purposes of converting it into an eSports Coliseum that will hold a variety of eSports events such as: hosting spectators as they watch live eSports events on the main floor; hosting video game tournaments that provide visitors with the opportunity to participate in tournaments on the second floor,

Our initial plan to launch and operate our business involves two phases.

In the first phase, we intend to complete the development, testing and launching of our eSports focused online gambling website. We estimate that the costs involved in completing the first phase will be approximately $2,000,000. We expect our sales and marketing efforts to begin not less than 90 days prior to the commencement of wagering operations. We intend to develop and launch our online eSports focused wagering website within six months of raising the necessary funds.

In the second phase, we intend to acquire, renovate, equip and operate our land based eSports Coliseum. We estimate the cost of acquiring and refurbishing the Grand Princess Casino in Antigua at approximately $14,000,000. We further estimate the cost of equipping and operating the eSports focused multi-purpose facility at approximately $6,000,000 to $8,000,000. We intend to acquire, renovate, equip and launch our eSports focused multi-purpose facility in Antigua within six months of raising the necessary funds. We expect our sales and marketing efforts to begin within 180 days of the commencement of operations. 

We currently have one full time and four part time employees. If we are able to raise sufficient capital, we plan to hire additional employees by December 31, 2017.

To date, our operations have been limited to technical and market research and organizational activities. We have not begun to design, develop or operate our wagering systems. As of September 30, 2016, we have not generated any revenue from our operations.

Our executive office is located at 1394 Pineway Court, Oakville, ON, Canada. Our business office is located at 155 Jolly Harbour, St. Mary&#146;s, Antigua and Barbuda. Our telephone number is (905) 580-2978.

Online Operations 

VGambling intends to offer users from around the world, excluding the United States, the ability to wager on a wide variety of e-Sports events. eSports event gambling involves spectators wagering online on the outcome of professional and amateur eSporting events. VGambling intends to offer users the opportunity to wager against other users utilizing a peer-to-peer wagering system with minimal risk to the Company. VGambling intends to offer spectators the ability to wager on all major professional eSports events and a wide range of amateur eSports events that will be broadcast live via streaming services including, twitch.tv, azubu.tv, ustream.tv and youtube.com. VGambling currently expects to launch online and mobile versions of eSports event betting under the Coliseum brand beginning in the second half of 2016. 

VGambling also intends to offer users from around the world, excluding 13 States within the United States, the ability to enter and participate in online video game tournaments and win cash prizes. Participants will be able to enter and play against each other for tournament chips with prize money distributed to the last remaining competitors. We will collect a tournament entry fee for scheduled tournaments and will not have any of our own capital at risk. VGambling intends to offer users a wide selection of video games of skill to be played online for real money in small groups to major tournaments. Users will be able to enter and participate in tournaments utilizing their PC, game console or mobile device. In video game tournaments, players play against each other in either ring games (i.e., games for cash on a hand-by-hand basis) or in tournaments (i.e., players play against each other for tournament chips with prize money distributed to the last remaining competitors) or variations thereof. VGambling collects a percentage of each pot (the &#147;rake&#148;) in ring games and a tournament entry fee for scheduled tournaments and sit and go tournaments, which do not put any of the Company&#146;s own 

capital at risk. VGambling expects to launch online and mobile versions of tournament play, initially utilizing simple video games and later more complex video games, under the Coliseum brand beginning in the first half of 2017, globally. 

VGambling has been issued a Client Provider Authorization Permit from the Kahnawake Gaming Commission in Canada. The computer servers and related equipment required for our eSports gambling business will be located in the data center facilities on the Mohawk of Kahnawake Indian Reservation in Canada. Although this Permit allows VGambling&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary to conduct real-money online gambling and wagering activities on a global basis, VGambling believes that also operating from Antigua, in addition to from the Mohawk Indian Reservation in Canada, is more beneficial for the following reasons:

&#183;

access to experienced staff

&#183;

access to premium office space

&#183;

lower operating costs

&#183;

Antigua is a &#147;whitelisted&#148; gambling jurisdiction. White listed gambling jurisdictions are those gambling jurisdictions that are allowed to advertise gambling services on-line in the United Kingdom and have more credibility in the online gambling industry.

Accordingly, and depending on its ability to raise additional capital, VGambling intends to submit an Application for Interactive Wagering License to the Financial Services Regulatory Commission of Antigua and Barbuda in the 4 th quarter of 2016. If the license is granted, VGambling&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary would also be able to conduct real-money online gambling and wagering activities on a global basis from Antigua.

We have a Betting Gaming Platform Software Agreement with Swiss Interactive Software GmbH, a company controlled by Yan Rozum, one of our directors. Under the Agreement, Swiss Interactive has agreed to grant VGambling an exclusive license to offer certain Swiss Interactive developed eSports event wagering platforms for real money play and wagering. Although the Agreement has been signed, no payment is due until we want to begin the development and customization of the wagering system. 

In 2014, we entered into an agreement with CAMS, LLC which provides us with the ability to identify the location of persons wanting to use our system for eSports wagering, and block system for use for persons in the United States and other jurisdictions where online gambling is illegal. The CAMS system also allows us to detect fraud in certain instances. 

We have agreements with a number of entities, including Skrill Limited, PaypalPte Ltd, and Entropay, that allows us to process money transfers through the internet.

The Company will control the payments, customer service, marketing and other aspects of its business.

Land Based Operations 

In June 2016, the Company made an offer to purchase the Grand Princess Casino, located in Jolly Harbor, Antigua, for $8,000,000 (US$). As of October 3, 2016 the Company&#146;s offer had not been accepted. The offer was contingent, among other things, upon the Company being approved for the Citizenship by Investment Program (&#147;CIP&#148;) of Antigua and Barbuda.

If the offer is accepted, the Company plans to use the CIP program to finance the purchase price and the cost of refurbishing and renovating (estimated to be $4,750,000) the facility.

The Company will also need approximately $6,000,000 to $8,000,000 to purchase equipment and provide working capital during the start-up phase following its opening. The Company estimates the facility, if and when it begins operations, will have approximately 12 employees and will cost approximately $50,000 per month to operate. If the Company&#146;s offer is accepted, and needed capital is raised, the Company estimates the casino will not begin operations until six months after the needed capital is raised.

The CIP program was established following parliamentary assent to the Antigua and Barbuda Citizenship by Investment Regulations (2014). These regulations allow the government to operate a program under which citizenship is granted to those who qualify under criteria set by parliamentary decision. Through 

this program investors, along with their families, have the opportunity to apply for citizenship in Antigua and obtain a second passport.

Obtaining a passport through the CIP program allows an investor and his family to enjoy a number of benefits conferred by their citizenship. A holder of an Antigua passport can enjoy visa-free travel to over 100 countries including the United Kingdom, Canada and all European Union Schengen countries. In addition to the ability to travel freely, an investor can reside in Antigua for as long as he or she would like.

The CIP program requires a person to make a significant economic contribution to Antigua. In exchange, and subject to application procedures, the applicants and their families are granted citizenship. To qualify for citizenship, the primary applicant must be over 18 years of age, meet the application requirements and select one of the following three investment options:

&#183;

A contribution to the National Development Fund of a minimum non-refundable amount of US$200,000;

&#183;

An investment of at least US$400,000 into an approved real estate project to be held for at least 5 years;

&#183;

An investment of a minimum of US$1,500,000 directly into an eligible business as sole investor or a joint investment involving at least two persons in an eligible business totaling at least US$5,000,000 and each of those persons individually invests at least US$400,000.

The Company has applied to have the Grand Princess Casino designated as an &#147;approved real estate project&#148;. If approved, a person that invests at least $400,000 in an Antigua subsidiary of the Company will qualify the investor and his family for citizenship in Antigua and Barbuda. The amounts invested in the Company&#146;s subsidiary will be used to purchase and refurbish the Grand Princess Casino.

For each $1.00 invested, the investor will receive one share of the subsidiary&#146;s preferred stock. Each preferred share will pay an annual dividend of $0.08. Dividends not paid will cumulate. 

Beginning five years and one month after the issuance of the preferred shares, at the option of the holder, each preferred share will be convertible into shares of our common stock. If converted, the number of shares of common stock to be issued will determined by dividing 1 by 80% of the average closing price of our common stock for the 30 trading days immediately preceding the date of the conversion. 

Beginning five years after the issuance of the preferred shares, each preferred share is redeemable, at our option, in whole or in part, and on one or more occasions, at a price of $1.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.

The Grand Princess Casino will not be operated as a traditional casino. Rather, it will host spectators as they watch live eSports events on the main floor, as well as, provide visitors with the opportunity to participate in video game tournaments on the second floor, all under the eSports Coliseum brand.

A live eSports event normally involves two or more professional teams which are contracted to participate. The sponsor of the event is typically required to pay the transportation and lodging expenses of the participating teams. The quality of teams participating is based on the cash prize offered to the winner. As a sponsor of the event, we will be a major contributor to the cash prize pool with the goal of making the prize pool as large as possible so as attract the highest quality teams.

The Grand Princess Casino consists of 62,000 square feet over three floors and will be rebranded as the eSports Coliseum, 

Initially, the first floor of the eSports Coliseum will be used to host events arranged by existing and established eSports tournament organizers. We intend to work with multiple eSports tournament organizers and arrange for them to host one or a series of events at the eSports Coliseum. As a permanent eSports event hosting facility, tournament organizers will benefit from the cost efficiency of not having to ship, assemble and then remove the equipment and services needed to host an eSports event involving multiple teams, 1,500 spectators and broadcasting in a temporary facility. The eSports Coliseum will generate revenue from facilities rental to tournament organizers in the form of a flat fee or as a percentage of ticket sales.

Ultimately, we also intend to organize and host our own eSports events on the first floor of the eSports Coliseum. We intend to negotiate with multiple video game publishers to secure the rights to their game software to enable us to host one or more eSports events at the eSports Coliseum. The cost of the game software licenses are negotiated individually and can be based on a flat fee, as a percentage of the prize pool, as a percentage of ticket sales, or at no cost. We intend to attract eSports spectator demographic focused sponsors and advertisers to make financial contributes to the event prize pool. We intend to enter into agreements with the eSports teams from around the world to have them participate in our events. The teams will have the opportunity to compete for the prize pool offered. We intend to broadcast globally all eSports events live on multiple video streaming platforms, such as twitch.tv and youtube.com. We intend to market the events primarily through online advertising on eSports focused websites and the websites and social media of professional eSports players and teams. We generate revenue in the form of ticket sales, third party sponsorship and advertising fees, both at the Coliseum and on online broadcasts of tournaments.

The second floor of the eSports Coliseum will provide a tournament play area with space for up to 200 participants who will play video games among themselves. The tournament play area will be equipped with 200 gaming stations, each of which will include the latest in gaming hardware and accessories, a computer with large monitor, desk and ergonomic chair. Participants will be able to enter and play against each other for tournament chips with prize money distributed to the last remaining competitors. We will collect a tournament entry fee for scheduled tournaments and will not have any of our own capital at risk. No spectator seating will be available on the second floor and the tournaments played on the second floor will not be broadcast.

The second floor will also host a full service restaurant and lounge. A portion of the third floor is planned for a roof top patio bar area. The remainder of the third floor will be utilized for offices.

Sales and Marketing 

We plan to: 

&#183; 

implement an affiliate marketing program. Affiliate marketing is a type of performance-based marketing by which a business, such as ours, rewards affiliates for each customer brought by the affiliate's marketing efforts. Affiliate marketing is a very successful form of online marketing and is utilized by global leaders such as Amazon, Apple and all leading online gambling sites. 

&#183;

advertise and sponsor major professional eSports events held in stadiums around the world that are broadcast online to a global audience.

&#183;

utilize professional eSports players and other celebrities, who have an interest in video games and eSports, to generate new customers.

&#183;

use a multimedia approach focusing on acquiring and retaining customers.

&#183;

use online advertisements, paid search optimization, and various social media campaigns to increase our online presence and drive traffic to our website. 

If we are able to acquire the Grand Princess Casino in Antigua, the VGambling brand will be featured prominently as a major sponsor of professional eSports events heldat the facility and broadcast globally.

Play-money gaming, which is permitted in most jurisdictions, involves players receiving virtual currency for free, or paying a fee to receive additional virtual currency, which can be used to play certain gaming offerings. Some play-money games may require an additional fee to download software upgrades or to buy-in to certain advanced play. Our proposed play-money games will initially consist of simple video games, and later more complex video games. There will no cash prizes or other prizes for monetary value. The primary purpose of the play-money games will be to direct users to our real-money wagering portal www.vgambling.bet. We currently have eight play-money websites, available in local languages, under development.

Competition 

The online gambling and wagering industry is increasingly competitive. With relatively low barriers to entry, new competitors are entering the eSports wagering and video game tournament segments. In both of these segments, there currently exist several major competitors. Because many of these competitors focus on 

delivering one product, as opposed to a full suite of eSports and video gambling products and services that VGambling intends to offer, the competitors may offer an equivalent or superior product to that of the Company. VGambling expects the number of companies offering products and services in each market segment to increase. Many of VGambling&#146;s current and potential competitors, including but not limited to Unikorn, Skilz, bet365, William Hill, and Pinnacle Sports, have far greater resources than VGambling.

Regulations Affecting our Business 

The offering and operation of online real-money gambling platforms and related software and solutions is subject to extensive regulation and approval by various federal, state, provincial, tribal and foreign agencies (collectively, &#147;gaming authorities&#148;). Gambling laws require us to obtain licenses or findings of suitability from gaming authorities for VGambling, including each of our subsidiaries engaged in these activities, and certain of our directors, officers, employees and in some instances, significant shareholders (typically beneficial owners of more than 5% of a company&#146;s outstanding equity). The criteria used by gambling authorities to make determinations as to qualification and suitability of an applicant varies among jurisdictions, but generally require the submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. Gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether an applicant qualifies for licensing or should be found suitable. Gambling authorities generally look to the following criteria when determining to grant a license or finding of suitability, including (i) the financial stability, integrity and responsibility of the applicant, (ii) the quality and security of the applicant&#146;s online real-money platform and gaming equipment and related software, as applicable, (iii) and, the past history of the applicant. Gambling authorities may, subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, (i) deny an application, or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, and (ii) fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, some jurisdictions explicitly prohibit gaming in all or certain forms and we will not market our gambling services in these jurisdictions. If any director, officer or employee of ours fails to qualify for a license or is found unsuitable (including due to the failure to submit the required documentation) by a gaming authority, we may deem it necessary, or be required to, sever our relationship with such person, which may include terminating the employment of any such person. Gambling authorities have the right to investigate any individual or entity having a material relationship with us, to determine whether such individual or entity is suitable or should be licensed to do business as a business associate of ours. In addition, certain gambling authorities monitor the activities of the entities they regulate both in their respective jurisdiction and in other jurisdictions to ensure that these entities are in compliance with local standards on a worldwide basis. As a regulated entity, we will be required to maintain strong corporate governance standards and will be required to, among other things, maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, maintain systems for accurate record keeping, file periodic reports with gaming authorities and maintain strict compliance with various laws and regulations applicable to our business. 

We will work to obtain all permits, authorizations, registrations and/or licenses required in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We will have a zero tolerance approach to money laundering, fraud and collusion and we will work with regulators and law enforcement globally in this area. We plan to have a dedicated compliance team that will work to ensure that we comply with all regulatory requirements under our licenses, as well as all applicable anti-money laundering, anti-fraud and anti-collusion rules and laws.

We will be dedicated to responsible gambling practices and will seek to provide our customers with the resources and services they need to play responsibly. These practices, resources and services are expected to include deposit limits, table and game play limits, voluntary restrictions on access and use of certain games, self-exclusion and cooling off periods, and voluntary permanent exclusions from our services, sites and applications.

