 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Globus Medical, Inc. (&#8220;Globus,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a medical device company focused on developing products that promote healing in patients with musculoskeletal disorders. We are currently focused on products to treat patients with spine disorders. We have also recently begun to develop a robotic surgical navigation device and products to treat patients who have experienced orthopedic traumas, although those development efforts are still ongoing and we currently have no robotic or orthopedic trauma products that are cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) for sale. We are an engineering-driven company with a history of rapidly developing and commercializing advanced and innovative products and procedures that assist surgeons in effectively treating their patients. Since our inception in 2003, we have launched over 150 &#32;products and offer a comprehensive portfolio of innovative and differentiated products addressing a broad array of spinal pathologies, anatomies and surgical approaches. We continue to devote significant efforts to the development of new and innovative technologies for the treatment of patients with spine disorders. In 2015 , those efforts resulted in the launch of fourteen &#32;new products. 

All of our current products fall into one of two categories: Innovative Fusion or Disruptive Technologies. Our Innovative Fusion products comprise fusion products to treat a wide variety of spinal disorders for the entire spine and can be used in a variety of surgical approaches. We believe our Innovative Fusion products have features and characteristics that may provide advantages for surgeons and potentially contribute to better outcomes for patients as compared to competing traditional fusion products. 

We define Disruptive Technologies as those that represent a significant shift in the treatment of spinal disorders by allowing for novel surgical procedures, improvements to existing surgical procedures and the treatment of spinal disorders earlier in the continuum of care. We believe the use of Disruptive Technologies may improve patient outcomes and reduce costs given the expected lower morbidity rates, shorter patient recovery times and shorter hospital stays associated with these procedures. Additionally, Disruptive Technologies may help a patient avoid progression of spinal disc disease sometimes caused by traditional surgical options such as spinal fusion. Our current portfolio of approved and pipeline Disruptive Technology products includes products that allow for minimally invasive surgical (&#8220;MIS&#8221;) techniques, as well as new treatment alternatives, including motion preservation technologies, such as dynamic stabilization, total disc replacement and interspinous process spacer products, and regenerative biologics technologies, as well as interventional pain management solutions, including treatments for vertebral compression fractures. 

While we group our products into two categories, we do not limit our products to a particular technology, platform or surgical approach. Our goal, instead, is to offer spine surgeons a complete suite of products they can use to most effectively treat their patients, based on the patient&#8217;s particular anatomy and condition and the surgeon&#8217;s particular training and surgical preference. 

Strategy 

Our goal is to become the leader in providing innovative solutions across the continuum of care in the spine market. To achieve this goal, we are employing the following business strategies: 

&#8226; 

Leverage our integrated product development engine . We plan to continue developing both Innovative Fusion products and Disruptive Technology products using our product development engine. We believe our team-oriented approach, active surgeon input and demonstrated product development capabilities position us to maintain a rapid rate of new product launches. We launched fourteen &#32;new products in 2015 , have over 30 &#32;potential new products in various stages of development, and expect to launch approximately five to ten new products in each of the next three years. 

&#8226; 

Increase the size, scope and productivity of our exclusive U.S. sales force . We believe there is significant opportunity for us to further penetrate existing markets and to enter new markets by increasing the size and geographic scope of our exclusive U.S. sales force. We expect to continue to increase the number of our direct and distributor sales representatives in the United States to expand into new geographic territories and to deepen our penetration in existing territories. We will also continue to provide our sales representatives with specialized development programs designed to improve their productivity. 

&#8226; 

Continue to expand into international markets . As of &#32; December 31, 2015 , we had an existing direct or distributor sales presence in &#32; 34 &#32; countries outside the United States. We expect to continue to increase our international presence through the commercialization of additional products and through the expansion of our international sales force. 

&#8226; 

Pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances . We intend to selectively pursue acquisitions and alliances in the future that will provide us with new or complementary technologies, personnel with significant relevant experience, or increased market penetration. We are currently evaluating a number of possible acquisitions or strategic relationships and believe that our resources and experience make us an attractive acquirer or partner. 

The Spine Market 

Spine disorders are a leading driver of healthcare costs worldwide. Spine disorders range in severity from mild pain and loss of feeling to extreme pain and paralysis. These disorders are primarily caused by degenerative conditions in the spine, deformity, tumors and trauma. 

Treatment alternatives for spine disorders range from non-operative conservative therapies to surgical interventions. Conservative therapies include bed rest, medication and physical therapy. When conservative therapies fail to provide adequate quality of life improvements, surgical interventions may be used to address pain. Surgical treatments for spine disorders can be instrumented, which include the use of implants, or non-instrumented, which forego the use of any such implants. 

We believe the spine market will continue to experience growth as a result of the following market influences: 

&#8226; 

Favorable patient demographics. &#32;&#32;The number of people between 40 to 80 years old is large and growing. Improvements in healthcare have led to increasing life expectancies worldwide and the opportunity to lead more active lifestyles at advanced ages. These trends are expected to generate increased demand for spine surgeries. 

&#8226; 

Improving technologies leading to increased use in fusion procedures. &#32;&#32;Due to the longevity of its practice and acceptable clinical outcomes, fusion has become a standard treatment option for patients presenting more advanced stages of spine disease. We expect that the development of improved fusion products will continue to contribute to spinal fusion as a leading treatment for advanced stages of spine disease. 

&#8226; 

Disruptive Technologies driving earlier interventions and creating an expanded patient base. &#32;&#32;Newer technology products and procedures are gaining increasing acceptance among patients and surgeons because they allow for novel surgical procedures, improvements to existing surgical procedures, the treatment of spine disorders by new physician specialties, and surgical intervention earlier in the continuum of care, all of which can result in better outcomes for patients. As a result, we expect Disruptive Technologies to drive accelerated growth and increase the size of the addressable patient population for spine surgery. 

&#8226; 

Continued growth of spine procedures worldwide. &#32;&#32;While the United States comprises approximately 4% &#32;of the worldwide population, we believe that approximately one-half of all spine surgeries occur in the United States. We believe that improvements to the standard of care outside of the United States will increase the international demand for spine products. 

The Globus Solution 

We currently offer over 150 &#32;products for the treatment of spine disorders. 

Innovative Fusion Products 

The depth of our Innovative Fusion portfolio encompasses treatment modalities from the occiput to the sacrum, with novel designs and features that provide key improvements to the standards of care. We also build on proven technologies to continuously upgrade our offerings, including a range of interbody implant and surgical approach options. 

Our Innovative Fusion products address the entire spine to treat degenerative, deformity, tumor, and trauma conditions. We believe that our products offer features and characteristics that provide advantages over traditional fusion products that may help improve surgical techniques and may contribute to better outcomes for patients. For example, in 2013 we introduced a new pedicle screw platform, CREO &#174; . This new system is optionally modular and offers lower profile constructs along with a variety of options to meet surgical and patient needs. CREO &#174; &#32;includes a convenient non-threaded locking cap design that eases building of thoracolumbar fixation constructs to readily adapt to the patient&#8217;s anatomy and condition, for a range of clinical applications. In 2014 and 2015, among several other new products, we launched several additions to the CREO &#174; &#32;platform including streamlined and intuitive instruments that offer surgeons options for almost any situation or preference. 

Disruptive Technologies Products 

We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on this higher-growth segment of the spine market given our multiple existing commercialized products and several products in various stages of development. We have a broad, comprehensive product portfolio and pipeline of Disruptive Technologies, including MIS, motion preservation, and regenerative biologics technologies, as well as interventional pain management solutions. 

Our MIS products enable a surgeon to perform a procedure less invasively to minimize tissue disruption and maximize native anatomy, which may lead to better patient recovery and fewer approach-related complications. For example, the latest addition to our retractor platform, MARS &#8482; &#32;3VL, offers unparalleled adjustability to the positioning of radiolucent blades. This slim and rigid retractor allows surgeons to easily modify the anterior or posterior location without having to move the table mounted frame. MAGNIFY &#8482; &#32;S is the first and only stand alone anterior lumbar interbody fusion (&#8220;ALIF&#8221;) device that was designed to adjust to the patient&#8217;s anatomy, potentially sparing endplate damage. We also offer a variety of innovative fixation options including plates and pedicle screw systems designed for minimally invasive insertion. 

Similarly, other Disruptive Technology products include our motion preservation offerings, such as SECURE &#174; -C and SECURE &#174; -CR, which are next-generation cervical arthroplasty devices that allow segmental motion, are semi-constrained, and provide alternatives to fusion in the treatment of degenerative conditions. In 2014, we launched MONUMENT &#174; , an ALIF implant intended to aid in the reduction of a grade 1 spondylolisthesis using its built-in, self-locking mechanical reduction feature. 

Regenerative biologics products, including bioactive glass-based KINEX &#174; &#32;and SIGNIFY &#8482; &#32;bone void fillers and CONDUCT &#174; &#32;ceramic-collagen, are well suited for pelvic/extremity and posterolateral spinal fusion procedures. The SHIELD &#174; &#32;and AFFIRM &#174; &#32;products allow for the treatment of painful vertebral compression fractures. 

Product Development and Research 

Globus was founded with a goal of leveraging our team&#8217;s extensive experience in the spine industry to use a distinctive product development process that significantly reduces the length of time between a product&#8217;s conception and commercialization. Our product development engine is the name we give to our particular approach to product development, which we believe is unique and highly efficient. We employ an integrated team approach to product development that involves collaboration among surgeons, our engineers, our dedicated researchers, our highly-skilled machinists, and our regulatory personnel. We believe that utilizing these integrated teams, as well as our extensive in-house facilities, allows us to design, test, and obtain timely regulatory clearance and approvals of our products. We also believe that our product development engine enables us to develop products that provide advantages for surgeons and contribute to better outcome for patients. 

Our product development efforts are supported by our in-house research capabilities. We believe that centralizing and consolidating the critical elements of the product development and commercialization process in one facility allows us to bring products from the concept stage to the market rapidly in order to respond to surgeon and patient needs. Research resources include a clinical research group, a mechanical testing laboratory, a spinal kinematics laboratory, a tribology laboratory, a cadaveric laboratory, a materials characterization laboratory, and a computational laboratory. 

The markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological advancements. We must constantly improve existing products and introduce new products in order to continue to succeed. Accordingly, we have made significant investments in our product development and research capabilities. For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , we spent &#32; $37.0 million , $31.7 million &#32;and $26.9 million , respectively, on research and development. 

Sales and Marketing 

We market and sell our products through our exclusive global sales force. As of December 31, 2015 , we had a direct or distributor sales presence in the United States and in 34 &#32;countries outside the United States. We expect to continue to increase the number of our direct and distributor sales representatives, both in the U.S. and internationally, to expand into new geographic territories and to deepen our penetration in existing territories. We believe the expansion of our U.S. and international sales forces provides us with significant opportunities for future growth as we continue to penetrate existing geographic markets and enter new ones. 

Our sales representatives are present in the operating room during most surgeries in the United States and in many, but not all, of the other countries in which our products are sold. These representatives have the responsibility to confirm that all of the items needed in the surgery are sterile when provided or are capable of being sterilized at the hospital and are available to the surgeon and surgical staff. Various sizes and quantities of implants are made available to be able to satisfy varying surgical requirements and patient anatomy, along with numerous surgical instruments and cases needed to safely perform the surgery and implantation. As products are used in surgeries, replacement items are shipped to our sales representatives and hospitals to replenish their supply. 

All of our independent distributors are compensated solely on commission. Most of our new direct sales representatives start with a compensation arrangement that is largely based on salary. Our goal is to have members of our direct sales force move toward a compensation model based solely on commission as they become familiar with our products and drive higher sales. 

Advancement of Spine Care 

We are committed to the advancement of spine care through our support of numerous educational and research programs geared towards spine surgeons, such as: 

&#8226; 

national and regional educational courses; 

&#8226; 

intensive hands-on cadaveric training on new products and new techniques; 

&#8226; 

research collaboration and support; 

&#8226; 

educational support; and 

&#8226; 

fellowship support. 

We devote significant resources to training and educating surgeons in the safe and effective use of our products and techniques. To that end, we have made significant investments in the creation, staffing and program offerings of our Musculoskeletal Education and Research Center (&#8220;MERC&#8221;). Through MERC, we offer educational and training programs both internally in our modern bioskills laboratory and 100 person lecture facility and externally through regionally-based didactic education and cadaveric bioskills training programs. 

We are highly focused on training through programs such as our Skin-to-Skin &#174; &#32;Series programs that feature intensive two day MIS training programs on thoracolumbar interbody fusion procedures and our lateral lumbar interbody fusion labs. To complement these intensive cadaveric bioskills training programs, we also conduct product-based programs providing surgeons with informative didactic sessions coupled with hands-on-lab segments to allow surgeons to learn and experience new instrumentation and techniques. For more complex procedures and techniques, surgeon preceptorships are offered which provide surgeons with one-on-one intraoperative training followed in some instances by focused bioskills labs. 

We have a strong commitment to research performed in conjunction with surgeons from around the world. Many surgeons, particularly in non-academic settings, lack the resources to pursue academic investigation of areas of interest, and we actively support these research opportunities as well as opportunities in collaboration with leading academic institutions. Supported by a large, focused research team, these efforts range from basic biomechanical testing conducted internally with our six degrees of freedom machine to support of major clinical outcomes studies. We are committed to providing the spine surgeon community with high quality research to support the new surgical techniques and novel product designs that we develop. 

Competition 

We believe that our significant competitors are Medtronic, the DePuy Synthes Companies (a division of Johnson &#38; Johnson), Stryker and NuVasive. Alphatec Spine, Orthofix International, Zimmer Biomet, LDR Holding, K2M and other smaller public and private companies are also competitors of ours. At any time, these or other market participants may develop alternative treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of spine disorders that compete directly or indirectly with our products. They may also develop and patent processes or products earlier than we can, or obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for competing products more rapidly than we can. 

We compete in the marketplace to recruit and retain qualified scientific, management and sales personnel, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business. 

Our currently marketed products are, and any future products we commercialize will be, subject to intense competition. Many of our current and potential competitors are major medical device companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, and they may succeed in developing products that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly longer operating history and more established reputations than we do. The spine market is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and highly sensitive to the introduction of new products or other market activities of industry participants. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner, receive adequate coverage and reimbursement, and are safer, less invasive and more effective than alternatives available for similar purposes. Because of the size of the potential market, we anticipate that companies will dedicate significant resources to developing competing products. 

Manufacturing and Supply 

We have greatly expanded our dedicated in-house implant manufacturing capabilities. A significant portion of our implant products is manufactured in our facilities in Eagleville, Pennsylvania. Most of our regenerative biologics products are processed in our facilities in San Antonio, Texas, and in Audubon, Pennsylvania. 

However, most of our products are generally manufactured through a network of over 100 international and domestic third-party suppliers. Our suppliers utilize state-of-the-art, high precision, computer-aided manufacturing equipment to manufacture our products. We have focused on developing a strong supplier base as part of our manufacturing strategy. Our relationship with our suppliers enables significant interaction between our design engineers and project managers and the suppliers&#8217; engineers and schedulers to work through issues arising during the entire product development cycle. Many of our suppliers, including our largest suppliers, are located within a 100-mile radius of the Philadelphia area, which affords our engineers and other members of our product development team the opportunity to work closely with them to commercialize our products. 

We select our suppliers carefully and generally use a small number of suppliers for each of our key products for added reliability. Our internal quality assurance group evaluates the potential vendor through a formal vendor approval process before we enter into a relationship with the vendor. Suppliers that meet our internal quality assurance standards are added to our approved supplier list. All of our suppliers that provide us with implants or human tissue are ISO-13485 certified, meaning they meet the International Organization for Standardization (&#8220;ISO&#8221;) requirements for the manufacture of medical devices, and/or are accredited by the American Association of Tissue Banks. Our quality assurance group conducts periodic audits to ensure continued compliance with our standards. With every shipment of inventory that we receive, our suppliers provide a certificate of compliance with our quality control standards. Our receiving group also performs inspections, packaging and labeling onsite at our headquarters facility. 

We work closely with our suppliers to ensure that our inventory needs are met while maintaining high quality and reliability. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production requirements, and we have not experienced a meaningful backlog of sales orders. We believe our supplier relationships and facilities will support our potential capacity needs for the foreseeable future. 

A majority of our product inventory is held primarily with our sales representatives and at hospitals throughout the United States. We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory which is maintained with our field representatives and hospitals in sufficient quantities so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a 

number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels. 

Intellectual Property 

We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods. In particular, we rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and also utilize nondisclosure agreements and other measures to protect our rights. 

As of &#32; December 31, 2015 , &#32;we owned 378 issued U.S. patents (363 utility patents; 15 design patents) and had applications pending for 397 U.S. patents (all utility patent applications), and we owned 130 issued foreign patents and had applications pending for 199 foreign patents. Our issued patents expire between November 2019 and September 2034. 

Our trademark portfolio contains 172 registered trademarks and 61 pending trademarks. Our portfolio includes domestic and foreign trademarks with associated logos and tag lines. 

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement 

We expect that, in the future, sales volumes and prices of our products may grow to be more dependent on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, such as state and federal programs including Medicare, Medicaid and Worker&#8217;s Compensation as well as private insurance plans including Blue Cross Blue Shield plans and commercial insurers. Reimbursement is dynamic and is contingent on coding for given services or procedures, coverage by third-party payors, and adequate payment for the services or procedures. 

Physicians use Current Procedural Terminology (&#8220;CPT &#174; &#8221;) codes to bill for services and procedures, which are established by the American Medical Association (&#8220;AMA&#8221;), and Health Care Common Procedure Coding Systems (&#8220;HCPCS&#8221;) codes, which are controlled by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;), the agency responsible for administering Medicare and Medicaid. Specialty societies such as the North American Spine Society, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, and the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons provide advice to the AMA CPT &#174; &#32;Editorial Panel for developing codes and to some extent provide input to CMS in developing HCPCS codes. The availability of existing codes to bill for services and procedures may impact the adoption of technology. 

The CMS and the National Center for Health Statistics are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to International Classification of Diseases, Clinical Modification/Procedure Coding System (&#8220;ICD-10-CM/PCS&#8221;) procedure codes used by physicians for reporting diagnosis(es) and hospitals for reporting inpatient procedures. ICD-10-CM/PCS was implemented in the U.S. on October 1, 2015. This represents the first major coding change for ICD coding in over 30 years. The granularity and specificity of the new ICD-10-CM/PCS coding system may impact reimbursement in the future, particularly hospital inpatient reimbursement. Physician and hospital coding is subject to change, which could impact coverage and reimbursement and thus potentially impact physician practice behavior. 

Independent of coding status, third-party payors may deny coverage based on their own criteria. Payor medical policies continue to become more restrictive. Payors may deem the clinical efficacy of a device or procedure to be experimental or investigational, not the most cost-effective treatment available, or used for an unapproved indication. For example, Aetna changed its medical policy for invasive back pain procedures to include an Appendix which lists covered and non-covered spine devices by brand name and manufacturer. As a result of this policy change, Aetna considers &#8220;expandable&#8221; cages to be experimental/ 

investigational and therefore not covered. Additionally, many private payors use coverage decisions and payment amounts established by CMS for the Medicare program as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. As the portion of the U.S. population over the age of 65 and eligible for Medicare continues to grow, we may be more vulnerable to coverage and reimbursement limitations imposed by CMS. National and local coverage policy decisions are subject to unforeseeable change and have the potential to impact physician behavior. We will continue to provide the appropriate resources to patients, physicians, hospitals, and insurers in order to promote the best patient care, provide clarity regarding coverage and reimbursement policies, and work to reverse any non-coverage policies. 

For federal/state programs, such as Medicaid, coverage and reimbursement differ from state to state. Some state Medicaid programs may not reimburse an adequate amount for the procedures performed with our products, if any payment is made at all. In addition, state-level worker&#8217;s compensation coverage and reimbursement vary from state to state. Payment by Medicare and other third-party payors may not be adequate to cover the cost of medical devices used in spine procedures. Additionally, some spine procedures are now being performed in the hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgery center settings, in part due to innovation. Reimbursement levels in these settings are typically lower than for the hospital inpatient setting and may not be adequate to cover the cost of innovative and novel medical devices. 

In international markets, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and some countries have instituted price ceilings on specific product lines. There can be no assurance that our products will be accepted by third-party payors, that coverage and reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the third-party payors&#8217; coverage and reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. 

We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry to reduce the costs of products and services. There can be no assurance that third-party coverage and reimbursement will be available or adequate, or that future legislation, regulation, or coverage and reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell these products on a profitable basis. 

Government Regulation 

Our business is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of subjective interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. 

Both federal and state governmental agencies continue to subject the healthcare industry to intense regulatory scrutiny, including heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. We believe that we have structured our business operations and relationships with our customers to comply with all applicable legal requirements. However, it is possible that governmental entities or other third parties could interpret these laws differently and assert otherwise. We discuss below the statutes and regulations that are most relevant to our business. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration Regulation 

Our products are medical devices and human tissue products subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities that we or our partners perform and will continue to perform: 

&#8226; 

product design and development; 

&#8226; 

product testing, manufacturing and safety; 

&#8226; 

post-market surveillance and reporting; 

&#8226; 

product labeling; 

&#8226; 

complaint handling; 

&#8226; 

post-market approval studies; and 

&#8226; 

product advertising, marketing and promotion. 

FDA&#8217;s Pre-market Clearance and Approval Requirements 

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States requires either 510(k) clearance or a pre-market approval (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) from the FDA. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices deemed to pose lower risk are placed in either Class I or II. Unless classified as exempt from pre-market notification, Class I and II devices generally require the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a pre-market notification requesting permission for commercial distribution. This process is known as 510(k) clearance. Some low risk devices are exempt from this requirement. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device are placed in Class III, which typically requires approval of a PMA application. Both 510(k) pre-market notification and PMAs are subject to the payment of user fees, paid at the time of submission for FDA review. The FDA can also impose restrictions on the sale, distribution or use of devices at the time of their clearance or approval, or subsequent to marketing. 

Human Cell, Tissue and Cellular and Tissue Based Products 

We currently distribute a number of products processed from human tissue, some of which are manufactured by third-party suppliers. FDA regulates human tissue products as Human Cells and Cellular and Tissue Based Products (&#8220;HCT/Ps&#8221;). Certain HCT/Ps are regulated solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and are referred to as &#8220;Section 361 HCT/Ps,&#8221; while other HCT/Ps are subject to FDA&#8217;s regulatory requirements for medical devices or biologics. Section 361 HCT/Ps do not require 510(k) clearance, PMA approval, or other premarket approvals from FDA before marketing. Tissue banks that handle HCT/Ps must register their establishments with FDA, list their HCT/P products with FDA, and comply with FDA donor eligibility and screening, current Good Tissue Practice (&#8220;CGTP&#8221;), product labeling, and postmarket reporting requirements for HCT/Ps. 

The FDA periodically inspects tissue processors to determine compliance with these requirements. Entities that provide us with allograft bone tissue are responsible for performing donor recovery, donor screening and donor testing and our compliance with those aspects of the CGTP regulations that regulate those functions are dependent upon the actions of these independent entities. 

The procurement and transplantation of allograft bone tissue is subject to U.S. federal law pursuant to the National Organ Transplant Act (&#8220;NOTA&#8221;), a criminal statute which prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs used in human transplantation, including bone and related tissue, for &#8220;valuable consideration.&#8221; NOTA permits reasonable payments associated with the removal, transportation, processing, preservation, 

quality control, implantation and storage of human bone tissue. With the exception of removal and implantation, we provide services in all of these areas. 

The procurement of human tissue is also subject to state anatomical gift acts and some states have statutes similar to NOTA. In addition, some states require that tissue processors be licensed by that state. 

FDA Enforcement 

The FDA enforces these requirements by inspection and market surveillance. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: 

&#8226; 

untitled letters or warning letters; 

&#8226; 

fines, injunctions and civil penalties; 

&#8226; 

recall or seizure of our products; 

&#8226; 

operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 

&#8226; 

refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products; 

&#8226; 

withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMAs that are already granted; and 

&#8226; 

criminal prosecution. 

We are subject to unannounced device inspections by the FDA, the Office of Compliance, the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, and the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, as well as other regulatory agencies overseeing the implementation and adherence of applicable state and federal tissue licensing regulations. These inspections may include our suppliers&#8217; facilities. 

International 

International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. In order to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive safety and quality regulations in other countries. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ. The European Union/European Economic Area (&#8220;EEA&#8221;) requires a European Conformity mark (&#8220;CE mark&#8221;) in order to market medical devices. Many other countries, such as Australia, India, New Zealand, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, accept CE or FDA clearance or approval although others, such as Brazil, Canada and Japan, require separate regulatory filings. 

In the EEA, our devices are required to comply with the essential requirements of the EU Medical Device Directive (Council Directive 93/42/EEC). Compliance with these requirements entitles us to affix the CE conformity mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be commercialized in the EEA. To demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE conformity mark we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. 

Additionally in the EEA, the procurement, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells is subject to the requirements of the laws of individual EEA Member States implementing Directive 2004/23/EC, Directive 2006/17/EC and Directive 2006/86/EC. 

Further, the advertising and promotion of our products in the EEA is subject to the laws of individual EEA Member States implementing the EU Medical Device Directive, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EEA Member State laws governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. These laws may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals. 

We are subject to unannounced device inspections by the Notified Body (an organization accredited by a Member State of the EEA to conduct conformity assessments), as well as other regulatory agencies overseeing the implementation and adherence of applicable regulations. These inspections may include our suppliers&#8217; facilities. 

Sales and Marketing Commercial Compliance 

Federal anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for, or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service paid for under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 

In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Off-label promotion has been pursued as a violation of the federal false claims laws. Pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Although surgeons are permitted to use medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA based on their medical judgment, we are prohibited from promoting products for such off-label uses. Additionally, the majority of states in which we market our products have similar anti-kickback, false claims, anti-fee splitting and self-referral laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and violations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties. 

The United States and foreign government regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, including under the United Kingdom&#8217;s Bribery Act and increased U.S. government oversight and enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (&#8220;FCPA&#8221;). 

Additionally, the commercial compliance environment is continually evolving in the healthcare industry as some states, including California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively &#8220;PPACA&#8221;) also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any &#8220;transfer of value&#8221; made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. 

Environmental Matters 

The manufacture of certain of our products, including our allograft implants and products, and the handling of materials used in the product testing process, including in our cadaveric laboratory, involve the controlled use of biological, hazardous and/or radioactive materials and wastes. Our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and exposure to, such materials and wastes. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us. 

We are not currently aware of any material costs or liabilities relating to environmental matters, including any claims or actions under environmental laws or obligations to perform any cleanups at any of our facilities or any third-party waste disposal sites, that we expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. However, it is possible that material environmental costs or liabilities may arise in the future. 

Seasonality and Backlog 

Our sales may be influenced by summer vacation and winter holiday periods during which we have experienced fewer spine surgeries taking place. In addition, we have recently experienced increased sales of our products in the last quarter of each year. Our sales generally consist of products that are in stock in our warehouse facilities or maintained at hospitals or with our sales representatives. Accordingly, we do not have a backlog of sales orders. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had over 1,200 &#32;employees, including sales and marketing, product development, general administrative and accounting, both domestically and internationally. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Properties 

Our corporate headquarters are located in Audubon, Pennsylvania and owned by us. We own research and manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas, lease additional research and manufacturing facilities in Texas and also own a distribution center in Heerlen, Netherlands to support our international operations. We maintain sales and administrative offices in twelve &#32;countries, all of which are leased. 

Financial Information 

For financial information about our business segment and the geographic areas in which we derive revenues, see &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; Note 17. Segment and Geographic Information&#8221; &#32;below. 

Corporate and Available Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in March 2003. Our principal executive offices are located at 2560 General Armistead Avenue, Audubon, Pennsylvania 19403, and our telephone number at that location is (610) 930-1800. Our corporate website address is http://www.globusmedical.com . The information 

contained in or accessible through our website or contained on other websites is not deemed to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We are subject to the filing requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file annual reports, periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the Securities and Exchange Commission at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge through a link on the Investors section of our website located at http://www.globusmedical.com &#32;(under &#8220;SEC Filings&#8221;) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

