 Item 1. Business 

History and Company Overview 

Founded in 1971, we are the leading North American distributor of wallboard and suspended ceilings systems, or ceilings. Our core customer is the interior contractor, who typically installs wallboard, ceilings and our other interior construction products in commercial and residential buildings. As a leading specialty distributor, we serve as a critical link between our suppliers and a highly fragmented customer base of over 20,000 contractors. Our operating model combines a national platform with a local go-to-market strategy through over 185 branches across the country. We believe this combination enables us to generate economies of scale while maintaining the high service levels, entrepreneurial culture and customer intimacy of a local business. 

On April 1, 2014, GMS Inc., or the Successor, acquired, through its wholly-owned entities, GYP Holdings II Corp. and GYP Holdings III Corp., all of the capital stock of Gypsum Management and Supply, Inc., or the Predecessor. We refer to this acquisition as the "Acquisition." Successor is a controlled company, within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, by certain affiliates of AEA Investors LP, which we refer to as "AEA" or our "Sponsor," and certain of our other stockholders through a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. 

Initial Public Offering 

On June 1, 2016, we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, of 8,050,000 shares of common stock at a price of $21.00 per share, including 1,050,000 shares of common stock that were issued as a result of the exercise in full by the underwriters of an option to purchase additional shares to cover over-allotments. Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, on May 26, 2016 under the ticker symbol "GMS". After underwriting discounts and commissions but before expenses, we received net proceeds from the IPO of approximately $157.2 million. We used these proceeds together with cash on hand to repay $160.0 million principal amount, of our term loan debt outstanding under our senior secured second lien term loan facility, or the Second Lien Facility, which was a payment in full of the entire loan balance due under the Second Lien Facility. 

Products 

We provide a comprehensive product offering of over 20,000 stock-keeping-units, or SKUs, of wallboard, ceilings and complementary interior construction products for interior contractors. By carrying a full line of wallboard and ceilings along with steel framing and ancillary products, we are able to serve as a one-stop-shop for our customers. 

Wallboard 

Wallboard is one of the most widely used building products for interior and exterior walls and ceilings in residential and commercial structures due to its low cost, ease of installation and superior performance in providing comfort, fire resistance, thermal insulation, sound insulation, mold and moisture resistance, impact resistance, aesthetics and design elements. Wallboard is sold in panels of various dimensions, suited to various applications. In commercial and institutional construction projects, architectural specifications and building codes provide requirements related to the thickness of the panels and, in some cases, other characteristics, including fire resistance. In addition, there are wallboard products that provide some additional value in use. These include lighter weight panels, panels with additional sound insulation, and panels coated to provide mold and moisture resistance. In addition to the interior wallboard products described above, exterior sheathing is a water-resistant wallboard product designed for attachment to exterior side-wall framing as an underlayment for various exterior siding materials. These panels are manufactured with a treated, water-resistant core faced with water-repellent paper on both face and back surfaces and long edges. 

While highly visible and essential, wallboard typically comprises only 3% to 5% of a new home's total cost. Given its low price point relative to other materials, we believe that there is no economical substitute for wallboard in either residential or commercial applications. We believe wallboard demand is driven by a balanced mix of both residential and commercial new construction as well as R&#38;R activity. 

Ceilings 

Our ceilings product line consists of suspended mineral fiber, soft fiber and metal ceiling systems primarily used in offices, hotels, hospitals, retail facilities, schools and a variety of other commercial and institutional buildings. The principal components of our ceiling systems are typically square mineral fiber tiles and the metal grid that holds the tile in place. The systems vary by acoustical performance characteristics, reflectivity, color, fire protection and aesthetic appeal. In addition to these systems, we have expanded our ceilings product offering to include architectural specialty ceilings. This product line consists of a variety of specialty shapes that provide a room with a unique visual effect as well as enhanced acoustical performance. As a result of the specified, often customized nature of these products, architectural specialty ceilings are a growing, high margin component of our product offering. 

Our ceilings product line is almost exclusively sold into commercial and institutional applications. Because interior contractors who purchase ceilings frequently buy wallboard from the same distributor, carrying our ceilings product line helps increase our sales of wallboard and other complementary products, which are often delivered together with ceilings to the same worksite as part of a commercial package. 

In the ceilings market, brand is highly valued and often specified by the architect of a commercial building. Because of our strong market position, we have exclusive access to the leading ceilings brand in many of our local markets. Where we have exclusivity, these specifications help us drive sales of ceilings products as well as all of the complementary products we sell as part of our commercial package. In effect, our exclusivity on the leading ceiling tile brand creates a virtuous cycle which helps reinforce our market position in our other products. In addition, because ceiling tile systems differ in size, shape and aesthetic appeal between manufacturers, they are often replaced with the same brand for R&#38;R projects. As a result, the leading brand's installed base of product generates built in demand for replacement product over time. Because we have exclusive access to that brand in certain markets, we benefit from these recurring sales. 

Steel Framing 

Our steel framing product line consists of steel track, studs and the various other steel products used to frame the interior walls of a commercial or institutional building. Typically the contractor who installs the steel framing also installs the wallboard, and the two products along with ceilings, insulation and other products are sold together as part of a commercial package. Nearly all of our steel framing products are sold for use in commercial buildings. 

Other Products 

In addition to our three main product lines, we supply our customers with complementary products, including insulation, ready-mix-joint compound and various other interior construction products. We also supply our customers with the ancillary products they need to complete the job including tools and safety products. We partner with leading branded vendors for many of these products and allow them to merchandise their products in our show rooms that are adjacent to many of our warehouses. 

Our Industry 

As the U.S. construction market evolved during the second half of the 20 th century, contractors began to specialize in specific trades within the construction process, and specialty distributors emerged to supply them. One of these trades was wallboard and ceilings installation, and we, along with other specialty distributors, tailored our product offerings and service capabilities to meet the unique needs of that trade. Today, specialty distributors comprise the preferred distribution channel for wallboard and ceilings in both the commercial and residential construction markets. 

We believe the success of the specialty distribution model in wallboard and ceilings is driven by the strong value proposition provided to our customers. Given the logistical complexity of the distribution services we provide, the expertise needed to execute effectively, and the special equipment required, we believe specialty distributors focused on wallboard and ceilings are best suited to meet contractors' needs. The main drivers for our products are commercial new construction, commercial R&#38;R, residential new construction and residential R&#38;R. 

Commercial 

Our addressable commercial construction market is composed of a variety of commercial and institutional sub-segments with varying demand drivers. Our commercial markets include offices, hotels, retail stores and other commercial buildings, while our institutional markets include educational facilities, healthcare facilities, government buildings and other institutional facilities. The principal demand drivers across these markets include the overall economic outlook, the general business cycle, government spending, vacancy rates, employment trends, interest rates, availability of credit and demographic trends. 

We believe commercial R&#38;R spending is typically more stable than new commercial construction activity. Commercial R&#38;R spending is driven by a number of factors, including commercial real estate prices and rental rates, office vacancy rates, government spending and interest rates. Commercial R&#38;R spending is also driven by commercial lease expirations and renewals, as well as tenant turnover. Such events often result in repair, reconfiguration and/or upgrading of existing commercial space. 

Residential 

Residential construction activity is driven by a number of factors, including the overall economic outlook, employment, income growth, home prices, availability of mortgage financing, interest rates and consumer confidence, among others. 

While residential R&#38;R activity is typically more stable than new construction activity, we believe the prolonged period of under-investment during the recent downturn will result in above-average growth for the next several years. The primary drivers of residential R&#38;R spending include changes in existing home prices, existing home sales, the average age of the housing stock, consumer confidence and interest rates. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Our growth strategy entails taking market share within our existing footprint, expanding into new markets by opening new branches and strategic acquisitions. We expect to continue to capture profitable market share in our existing footprint by delivering industry-leading customer service. Our strategy for opening new branches is to further penetrate markets that are adjacent to our existing operations. Typically, we have pre-existing customer 

relationships in these markets but need a new location to fully capitalize on those relationships. Since the beginning of full year 2014, we have opened 21 new branches and we currently expect to open several new branches each year depending on market conditions. In addition, we will continue to selectively pursue tuck-in acquisitions and have a dedicated team of professionals to manage the process. Due to the large, highly fragmented nature of our market and our reputation throughout the industry, we believe we have the potential to access a robust acquisition pipeline that will continue to supplement our organic growth. We use a rigorous targeting process to identify acquisition candidates that will fit our culture and business model. As a result of our scale, purchasing power and ability to improve operations through implementing best practices, we believe we can achieve substantial synergies and drive earnings accretion from our acquisition strategy. 

Customers 

Our diverse customer base consists of more than 20,000 contractors as well as home builders. We maintain local relationships with our contractors through our network of branches and our extensive salesforce. We also serve our large homebuilder customers through our local branches, but are able to coordinate the relationship on a national basis through our Yard Support Center in Tucker, Georgia. Our ability to serve multi-regional homebuilders across their footprint provides value to them and differentiates us from most of our competitors. During fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, our single largest customer accounted for 2% and 3%, respectively, of our net sales and our top ten customers accounted for 9% and 11%, respectively. 

Suppliers 

Our leading market position, national footprint and superior service capabilities have allowed us to develop strong relationships with our suppliers. We maintain exceptional, long-term relationships with all seven major North American wallboard manufacturers, as well as the three major ceilings manufacturers: Armstrong, CertainTeed and USG. Because we account for a meaningful portion of their volumes and provide them with an extensive salesforce to market their products, we are viewed by our suppliers as a key channel partner. We believe this position provides us with advantaged procurement. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing strategy is to provide a comprehensive set of high-quality products and superior services to contractors and builders reliably, safely, accurately and on-time. We have a highly experienced sales force of approximately 600 people who manage our customer relationships and grow our customer base. We have strategies to increase our customer base at both the corporate and local branch levels, which focus on building and growing strong relationships with our customers, whether they serve a small local market, or a national footprint. We believe that the experience and expertise of our salesforce differentiates us from our competition particularly in the commercial market, which requires a highly technical and specialized product knowledge and a sophisticated delivery plan. 

Competition 

We compete against other specialty distributors as well as big box retailers and lumberyards. Among specialty distributors, we compete against a small number of large distributors and many small, local, privately-owned distributors. Our largest competitors include: Allied Building Products (a subsidiary of CRH plc), Foundation Building Materials, L&#38;W Supply (a subsidiary of USG) and Winroc (a subsidiary of Superior Plus). However, we believe smaller, regional or local competitors still comprise approximately more than half of the North American specialty distribution market. The principal competitive factors in our business include, but are not limited to, availability of materials and supplies; technical product knowledge and expertise; advisory or other service capabilities; delivery capabilities; pricing of products; and availability of credit. 

Seasonality 

In a typical year, our operating results are impacted by seasonality. Historically, sales of our products have been slightly higher in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year due to favorable weather and longer daylight conditions during these periods. Seasonal variations in operating results may be impacted by inclement weather conditions, such as cold or wet weather, which can delay construction projects. 

Intellectual Property 

We own United States trademark registrations for approximately 20 trademarks that we use in our business. Generally, registered trademarks have a perpetual life, provided that they are renewed on a timely basis and continue to be used properly as trademarks. We intend to maintain these trademark registrations as long as they remain valuable to our business. Other than certain of our local brands, the retention of which we believe helps maintain customer loyalty, we do not believe our business is dependent to a material degree on trademarks, patents, copyrights or trade secrets. In addition, other than commercially available software licenses, we do not believe that any of our licenses for third-party intellectual property are material to our business, taken as a whole. 

Employees 

As of April 30, 2016, we had over 3,900 employees, of which less than 3% were affiliated with labor unions. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. Additionally, we believe that the training provided through our employee development programs and our entrepreneurial, performance-based culture provides significant benefits to our employees. 

Government Regulation 

While we are not engaged in a "regulated industry," we are subject to various federal, state and local government regulations applicable to the business generally in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to our relationships with our employees, public health and safety, work place safety, transportation, zoning and fire codes. We strive to operate each of our branches in accordance with applicable laws, codes and regulations. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing applicable environmental laws and regulations and our employment, workplace health and workplace safety practices. 

Our operations in domestic interstate commerce are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the DOT, which has broad administrative powers with respect to our transportation operations. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimension and driver hours of service also are subject to both federal and state regulation. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry&#151;Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income." Our operations are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of OSHA, which has broad administrative powers with respect to workplace and jobsite safety. 

Environmental, Health and Safety 

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal, product safety and workplace health and safety. These laws and regulations impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on our operations and the products we distribute. The failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third party claims, damage to property or natural resources and personal injury, requirements to investigate or cleanup property or to pay for the costs of investigation or cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions and could negatively impact our reputation with customers. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business, the products we distribute and the business of our customers, and the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations, are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the 

effect that changes in these laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Should environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, become more stringent, our costs, or the costs of our customers, could increase, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Under certain laws and regulations, such as the U.S. federal Superfund law or its state equivalents, the obligation to investigate, remediate, monitor and clean up contamination at a facility may be imposed on current and former owners, lessees or operators or on persons who may have sent waste to that facility for disposal. Liability under these laws and regulations may be imposed without regard to fault or to the legality of the activities giving rise to the contamination. Moreover, we may incur liabilities in connection with environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our prior, existing or future owned or leased sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, and in accordance therewith, we file reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available through the investor relations section of our website at www.gms.com. Reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In addition to our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

