 Item 1. Business Overview 

Genworth Holdings, Inc. (&#147;Genworth Holdings&#148;) (formerly known as Genworth Financial, Inc.) was incorporated in Delaware in 2003 in preparation for an initial public offering (&#147;IPO&#148;) of Genworth common stock, which was completed on May 28, 2004. On April 1, 2013, Genworth Holdings completed a holding company reorganization pursuant to which Genworth Holdings became a direct, 100% owned subsidiary of a new public holding company that it had formed. The new public holding company was incorporated in Delaware on December 5, 2012, in connection with the reorganization, and was renamed Genworth Financial, Inc. (&#147;Genworth Financial&#148;) upon the completion of the reorganization. 

References to &#147;Genworth,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;we&#148; or &#147;our&#148; have the following meanings, unless the context otherwise requires: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; For periods prior to April 1, 2013: Genworth Holdings and its subsidiaries &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; For periods from and after April 1, 2013: Genworth Financial and its subsidiaries We are dedicated to helping meet the homeownership and long-term care needs of our customers. We are headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. We facilitate homeownership in the United States and internationally by providing mortgage insurance products that allow people to purchase homes with low down payments while protecting lenders against the risk of default. Through our homeownership education and assistance programs, we also help people keep their homes when they experience financial difficulties. We offer individual and group long-term care insurance products to meet consumer needs for long-term care. On February 4, 2016, we announced our decision to suspend sales of our traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products. 

We operate our business through five operating segments: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; U.S. Mortgage Insurance. In the United States, we offer mortgage insurance products predominantly insuring prime-based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans (&#147;flow mortgage insurance&#148;). We selectively provide mortgage insurance on a bulk basis (&#147;bulk mortgage insurance&#148;) with essentially all of our bulk writings being prime-based. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment&#146;s income from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders and net operating income was $179 million for each measure. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Canada Mortgage Insurance. We offer flow mortgage insurance and also provide bulk mortgage insurance that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risk in Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our Canada Mortgage Insurance segment&#146;s income from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders and net operating income were $140 million and $152 million, respectively. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Australia Mortgage Insurance. In Australia, we offer flow mortgage insurance and selectively provide bulk mortgage insurance that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risk. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our Australia Mortgage Insurance segment&#146;s income from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders and net operating income were $103 million and $102 million, respectively. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; U.S. Life Insurance. We offer long-term care insurance products as well as service traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our U.S. Life Insurance segment had a loss from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders of $253 million and net operating income of $43 million. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Runoff. The Runoff segment includes the results of non-strategic products which are no longer actively sold. Our non-strategic products primarily include our variable annuity, variable life insurance, 

&#160;

&#160; institutional, corporate-owned life insurance and other accident and health insurance products. Institutional products consist of: funding agreements, funding agreements backing notes (&#147;FABNs&#148;) and guaranteed investment contracts (&#147;GICs&#148;). We no longer offer retail and group variable annuities but continue to service our existing blocks of business. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our Runoff segment had a loss from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders of $5 million and net operating income of $27 million. 

In addition to our five operating business segments, we also have Corporate and Other activities which include debt financing expenses that are incurred at the Genworth Holdings level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter-segment transactions and the results of other businesses that are managed outside of our operating segments, including certain smaller international mortgage insurance businesses and discontinued operations. See note 24 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for information related to discontinued operations. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Corporate and Other activities had a loss from continuing operations available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders and a net operating loss of $372 million and $248 million, respectively. 

We had $12.8 billion of total Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s stockholders&#146; equity and $106.4 billion of total assets as of December 31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our revenues were $8.5 billion and we had a net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.&#146;s common stockholders of $0.6 billion. 

Strategic Update 

Our focus remains on improving business performance and increasing financial and strategic flexibility across the organization. Our strategy includes maximizing our opportunities in our mortgage insurance businesses and restructuring our U.S. life insurance businesses. 

We expect to continue to grow and strengthen our mortgage insurance businesses by taking advantage of accretive market opportunities balanced with capital optimization. This includes focusing on earnings growth and writing profitable new business while maintaining regulatory capital standards, with prudent buffers. In our U.S. mortgage insurance business, this includes maintaining compliance with the private mortgage insurer eligibility requirements (&#147;PMIERs&#148;) that became effective on December 31, 2015.

We are also focused on restructuring our U.S. life insurance businesses. On February 4, 2016, we announced an initiative to: (i) suspend sales of our traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products after the first quarter of 2016; (ii) further reduce expense levels in 2016; (iii) repatriate existing business from Brookfield Life and Annuity Insurance Company Limited (&#147;BLAIC&#148;), our primary Bermuda domiciled reinsurance subsidiary, to our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries in 2016; and (iv) separate and potentially isolate our long-term care insurance business. 

Our decision to suspend sales of our traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products was a result of the continued impact of adverse ratings actions and recent sales levels of these products. We will, however, continue to service our existing in-force block of business. Our decision to suspend sales of these products is expected to reduce cash expenses by approximately $50 million pre-tax annually. In addition, we previously announced a multi-step restructuring plan targeting annual cash savings in excess of $100 million. Actions taken in 2015 as part of that plan are expected to reduce cash expenses on an annualized run rate by approximately $90 million to $100 million pre-tax or more. We plan to repatriate all of the existing business, including the long-term care insurance business, held in BLAIC. In connection with these actions, BLAIC would be dissolved, which would facilitate future cash movements from our international subsidiaries to the holding company. 

Once all business is repatriated from BLAIC, we intend through a series of reinsurance and restructuring transactions to separate, then potentially isolate, our long-term care insurance business from our other U.S. life 

&#160;

insurance businesses. These actions will be part of a multi-phased process that is intended to align substantially all of our in-force life insurance and annuity business under Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Company (&#147;GLAIC&#148;), our Virginia domiciled life insurance company, and all long-term care insurance business under Genworth Life Insurance Company (&#147;GLIC&#148;), our Delaware domiciled life insurance company. Once these actions take place, we plan to separate GLAIC and GLIC ownership so that both subsidiaries are wholly-owned by an intermediate holding company. Genworth Life Insurance Company of New York (&#147;GLICNY&#148;), our New York domiciled life insurance company, which is currently partially owned by GLAIC, would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of GLIC. To further isolate our long-term care insurance business from our other businesses and cause it to be excluded from our public debt covenants, GLIC and GLICNY may ultimately be direct subsidiaries of Genworth Financial and no longer subsidiaries of Genworth Holdings. We would aim to complete these actions over the next 12 to 18 months. However, these proposed actions will require regulatory approval from several different regulatory jurisdictions, and may require other third-party approvals. We have committed to contribute $200 million of holding company cash (from the anticipated tax benefit related to a life block transaction that closed in January 2016 and is expected to be paid to the holding company in the third quarter of 2016) to GLIC as part of executing this restructuring plan. 

In conjunction with our U.S. life insurance restructuring plan, we continue to remain open to alternatives and actively assess other strategic options. In assessing our strategic options, we are considering, among other factors, the level of, and restrictions contained in, our existing indebtedness, tax considerations, the views of regulators and rating agencies, and the performance and prospects of our businesses. 

We are continuing to execute our long-term care insurance strategy, which includes: obtaining significant premium rate increases and benefit reductions on certain of our in-force blocks of long-term care insurance to improve profitability and reduce the strain on capital; requesting smaller rate increases more proactively on newer in-force blocks of long-term care insurance as needed; and introducing new products with appropriately priced benefits. 

We also seek to maintain appropriate levels of capital in the event of unforeseen events and potential in-force block volatility. We generate statutory capital from earnings on our in-force business, as well as from ongoing capital management and efficiency strategies such as use of reinsurance, management of new business mix and levels and cost reductions. We also continue to evaluate and pursue opportunities to redeploy capital from lower returning blocks of business. 

At Genworth Holdings, we have targeted maintaining cash and highly liquid securities of at least one and one-half times debt service plus a $350 million buffer in the near term and focus on reducing debt levels over time. We also seek to increase financial flexibility by improving elements of our credit profile, including by reducing our debt levels, which impact our financial strength ratings. In light of market influences and the impact of recent ratings downgrades on the valuation of our senior debt, we may evaluate the level of cash buffer we maintain at the holding company as we consider opportunities to repurchase our debt over time. In January 2016, Genworth Holdings redeemed its senior notes due in 2016 using proceeds from the sale of our lifestyle protection insurance business. 

U.S. Mortgage Insurance 

Through our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment, we provide private mortgage insurance. Private mortgage insurance enables borrowers to buy homes with a down payment of less than 20% of the home&#146;s value (&#147;low down-payment mortgages&#148; or &#147;high loan-to-value mortgages&#148;). Mortgage insurance protects lenders against loss in the event of a borrower&#146;s default. It also generally aids financial institutions in managing their capital efficiently by, in some cases, reducing the capital required for low-down-payment mortgages. If a borrower defaults on mortgage payments, private mortgage insurance reduces and may eliminate losses to the insured institution. Private mortgage insurance may also facilitate the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market because of the credit enhancement it provides. 

&#160;

We have been providing mortgage insurance products and services in the United States since 1981 and operate in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Our principal mortgage insurance customers are originators of residential mortgage loans who typically determine which mortgage insurer or insurers they will use for the placement of mortgage insurance written on loans they originate. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 18% of new insurance written in our U.S. mortgage insurance business was attributable to our largest five lender customers, with no customer representing more than 10% of new insurance written. 

The U.S. private mortgage insurance industry is affected in part by the requirements and practices of the Federal National Mortgage Association (&#147;Fannie Mae&#148;) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#147;Freddie Mac&#148;). Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are government-sponsored enterprises and we refer to them collectively as the &#147;GSEs.&#148; The GSEs purchase and provide guarantees on residential mortgages as part of their governmental mandate to provide liquidity through the secondary mortgage market. The GSEs may purchase mortgages with unpaid principal amounts up to a specified maximum, known as the &#147;conforming loan limit,&#148; which is currently $417,000 (up to $625,000 in certain high-cost geographical areas of the country) and subject to annual adjustment. 

Each GSE&#146;s Congressional charter generally prohibits it from purchasing a mortgage where the loan-to-value ratio exceeds 80% of home value unless the portion of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage in excess of 80% of the value of the property securing the mortgage is protected against default by lender recourse, participation or by a qualified insurer. Much of the demand for private mortgage insurance is a function of the requirements of the GSEs. The GSEs purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured as of December 31, 2015. The GSEs specify mortgage insurance coverage levels and also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained-participation mortgages, or mortgages with lender recourse, as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low-down-payment mortgages they purchase. In furtherance of their respective charter requirements, each GSE maintains eligibility criteria to establish when a mortgage insurer is qualified to issue coverage that will be acceptable to the GSEs for high loan-to-value mortgages they acquire. For more information about the financial and other requirements of the GSEs for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, see &#147;&#151;Regulation&#151;Mortgage Insurance Regulation&#151;Other regulation.&#148; 

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment.&#148; 

Products and services 

The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are predominantly flow mortgage insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also from time to time enter into bulk mortgage insurance transactions or lender-paid insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure individual loans on a flow basis or a portfolio of loans at or after origination for a negotiated price and terms. 

In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have in prior years written mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage contemporaneously with loan origination on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. 

&#160;

Flow mortgage insurance 

Flow mortgage insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan pursuant to the terms and conditions of a master policy. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one- to four-unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a &#147;claim amount&#148; consisting of unpaid loan principal, plus delinquent interest and certain other expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage specified in the primary master policy and certificate, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the total unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and other expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lender&#146;s disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. Our master policies require that loans be underwritten to approved guidelines and provide for cancellation of coverage and return of premium for material breach of obligations. Our master policies generally do not extend to or cover material breach of obligations and misrepresentations known to the insured or others involved in the origination of the loan. From time to time, based on various factors, we request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies and required procedures. Where our review and any related investigation establish material non-compliance or misrepresentation or there is a failure to deliver complete loan files as required, we may cancel or rescind coverage with a return of premiums. 

We also perform fee-based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and expedites the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. 

Our use of captive reinsurance with lender affiliates has been reduced substantially and amounts remaining in trust available to pay losses are now de minimis. We have agreed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#147;CFPB&#148;) and, separately, with the State of Minnesota Department of Commerce not to enter into any new captive reinsurance transactions for a period of 10 years, which expires in June 2025. 

Bulk mortgage insurance 

Under primary bulk mortgage insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk mortgage insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk mortgage insurance transactions with loan-to-value ratios above 80% typically are also covered by flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under the bulk mortgage insurance transactions. We base the premium on our bulk mortgage insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk mortgage insurance transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. 

Underwriting and pricing 

Loan applications for all flow loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrower&#146;s credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property as well as to establish the applicable premium. We set premiums at the time a certificate of insurance is issued based on our expectations regarding likely performance of a loan over the long term. In most states, where our U.S. mortgage 

&#160;

insurance subsidiaries are licensed, we are required to file rates before we are authorized to charge premium. In some states, these rates must be approved before their use. Changes in rates likewise must be filed and receive approval. In general, states may require actuarial justification on the basis of the insurer&#146;s loss experience, expenses and future projections. In addition, states may consider general default experience in the mortgage insurance industry in assessing the premium rates charged by mortgage insurers. Once a certificate of coverage is issued, we may not alter the premium charged or cancel coverage without cause. 

Fair Isaac Company (&#147;FICO&#148;) developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrower&#146;s credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrower&#146;s credit quality. Typically, a borrower with a higher credit score has a lower likelihood of defaulting on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a &#147;prime&#148; loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a &#147;sub-prime&#148; loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2015, on a risk in-force basis and at the time of loan closing, approximately 97% of our primary insurance loans were &#147;prime&#148; in credit quality with FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 2% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 1% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are either directly reviewed by us (or our contract underwriters), or as noted below, by lenders under delegated authority and either may utilize automated underwriting systems. A substantial number of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines, including credit scores, we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk mortgage insurance transactions, we evaluate characteristics of the loans in the portfolio, including credit scores, and examine all or a sample of loan files. 

We previously offered mortgage insurance for Alt-A loans, which were originated under programs in which there was a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrower&#146;s income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate at origination than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans, which allowed the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and payment option adjustable rate mortgages (&#147;ARMs&#148;), which typically provided four payment options that a borrower could select for the first five years of a loan. We have made numerous changes to our underwriting guidelines, including exiting certain products and types of coverages and imposing geographical and third-party loan origination guidelines, and have changed pricing. One result of these changes is that any risk in-force represented by above-described loan types is confined to our 2008 and prior book years. We continue to monitor current housing conditions and the performance of our books of business to determine if we need to make further changes in our pricing or underwriting guidelines and practices. 

Loss mitigation 

We work closely with lenders who identify and monitor delinquent borrowers. When a delinquency cannot be cured through basic collections, we have the right to approve loan modifications and seek the cooperation of servicers in modifying the terms and conditions of delinquent mortgage loans so as to enable borrowers to stay in their home and avoid foreclosure, thereby potentially reducing our claims. We have granted loss mitigation delegation to servicers whereby they perform loss mitigation efforts on our behalf. Moreover, the CFPB has promulgated a final rule obligating servicers to engage in loss mitigation efforts with a borrower prior to foreclosure. These efforts have traditionally involved loan modifications intended to enable qualified borrowers to make restructured loan payments or efforts to sell the property thereby potentially reducing claim amounts to us. 

After a delinquency is reported to us, we review, and where appropriate conduct further investigations. Under our master policies, we may request specified documentation concerning the origination, closing and servicing of an insured loan. Failure to deliver required documentation or our review of such documentation may result in rescission, cancellation or claims curtailment or denial. We will consider an insured&#146;s appeal of our decision and if we agree with the appeal we take the necessary steps to reinstate uninterrupted insurance coverage and reactivate the loan certificate or otherwise address the issues raised in the appeal. If the parties are unable to 

&#160;

agree on the outcome of the appeal, the insured may choose to pursue arbitration or litigation under the master policies and challenge the results. If arbitrated, ultimate resolution of the dispute would be pursuant to a panel&#146;s binding arbitration award. Subject to applicable limitations in the master policies, legal challenges to our actions may be brought several years later. For additional information regarding our master policies, see &#147;&#151;Regulation&#151;U.S. Insurance Regulation&#151;Policy forms.&#148; 

From time to time, we enter into agreements with policyholders to accelerate claims and negotiate an agreed upon payment amount for claims on an identified group of delinquent loans. In exchange for our accelerated claim payment, mortgage insurance is canceled and we are discharged from any further liability on the identified loans. 

Distribution 

We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force throughout the United States. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators which impose a requirement for mortgage insurance as part of the borrower&#146;s financing. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our &#147;Action Center&#148; which provides live phone support for all customer segments. 

Competition 

In recent years, our principal sources of competition comprised U.S. and state government agencies and other private mortgage insurers. Historically, we have also competed with mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs, structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk. 

U.S. and state government agencies . We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow mortgage insurance business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (&#147;FHA&#148;) and the Veteran&#146;s Administration (&#147;VA&#148;). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state-supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. 

Private mortgage insurers. The U.S. private mortgage insurance industry remains highly competitive, particularly with the entry of several new participants in the last several years. There are currently seven active mortgage insurers, including us. 

Mortgage lenders, the GSEs and other participants in the mortgage finance industry. We have experienced competition in recent years from various participants in the mortgage finance industry including loan originators, the GSEs, investment banks and other purchasers of interests in mortgages as well as reinsurers and other participants in the capital markets. Competition from lenders has been in the form of self-insurance or origination of simultaneous second mortgages used to bring the loan-to value ratio of a first mortgage below the level where mortgage insurance is required by the GSEs. The GSEs have recently entered into risk sharing transactions with financial institutions other than mortgage insurers designed to reduce the risk of their mortgage portfolios partly in response to concerns expressed by their conservator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (&#147;FHFA&#148;). Third-party reinsurers have entered into recent transactions with mortgage insurers, including one of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, pursuant to which the third-party reinsurer assumes mortgage insurance risk for a fee. We may also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes. 

Canada Mortgage Insurance 

We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 and operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. 

&#160;

In July 2009, Genworth MI Canada Inc. (&#147;Genworth Canada&#148;), our indirect subsidiary, completed an IPO of its common shares and we currently hold approximately 57.3% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada on a consolidated basis, with Genworth Financial International Holdings, LLC (&#147;GFIH&#148;) holding 40.6% and our U.S. mortgage insurance business holding 16.7%. See note 23 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information. 

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our Canada Mortgage Insurance segment are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Canada Mortgage Insurance segment.&#148; 

Products 

Our main products are primary flow and bulk mortgage insurance. In both primary flow and bulk mortgage insurance, our mortgage insurance in Canada provides insurance coverage for 100% of the unpaid loan balance, including interest, selling costs and expenses. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all high loan-to-value mortgage loans extended by federally incorporated banks, trust companies and insurers, where the loan-to-value ratio exceeds 80%. Most mortgage lenders in Canada offer both fixed rate and variable rate mortgages. High loan-to-value mortgages insured by our mortgage insurance business in Canada tend to be predominantly fixed rate mortgages of at least a five-year term, at the end of which the mortgages can be renewed. Most mortgage lenders in Canada offer a portability feature, which allows borrowers to transfer their original mortgage loan to a new property, subject to certain criteria. Our flow mortgage insurance policies contain a portability feature which allows borrowers to also transfer the mortgage default insurance associated with the mortgage loan. 

We also provide bulk mortgage insurance to lenders that have originated loans with loan-to-value ratios of less than or equal to 80%. These policies provide lenders with immediate capital relief from applicable bank regulatory capital requirements and facilitate the securitization of mortgages in the Canadian market. 

Government guarantee eligibility 

We are subject to regulation under the Protection of Residential Mortgage or Hypothecary Insurance Act (Canada) (&#147;PRMHIA&#148;). Under the terms of PRMHIA, the Canadian government guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk fee for this guarantee. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. Our primary government-sponsored competitor receives a 100% sovereign guarantee. The maximum outstanding insured exposure for private insured mortgages is CAD$300.0 billion, and the risk fee that we and other private mortgage insurers pay to the Canadian government is equal to 2.25% of premiums. 

Over the past several years, the Canadian government implemented a series of revisions to the rules for government guaranteed mortgages. We have incorporated these revisions into our underwriting guidelines. For more information about PRMHIA, see &#147;&#151;Regulation&#151;Mortgage Insurance Regulation&#151;International regulation&#151;Canada.&#148; 

Underwriting and pricing 

We review loan applications for all flow mortgage insurance loans we insure in Canada to evaluate each individual borrower&#146;s credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. We evaluate the credit strength of a borrower by reviewing his or her credit history and credit score. We employ internal mortgage scoring models in the underwriting processes, as well as automated valuation models to evaluate property risk and fraud application prevention and management tools. When underwriting bulk mortgage insurance transactions, we evaluate characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. 

&#160;

Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance in Canada are processed through a system that analyzes the data based on pre-established criteria and systematically determines the approval status. Our employees manually review loans that do not meet the criteria for automated decisioning. We have established an audit plan to review underwritten loans to ensure documentation supports the data provided by lenders. Our audit teams request and review samples (statistically valid and/or stratified) of performing loans. Once an audit review has been completed, our audit teams summarize and evaluate their findings against policy. If our audit teams detect non-compliance issues, we work with the lender to develop appropriate corrective actions. 

We regularly take actions to reduce our new business risk profile, which includes: tightening underwriting guidelines, product restrictions and reducing new business in geographic areas we believe are more economically sensitive. We believe these underwriting actions have improved our performance on new books of business. 

Loss mitigation 

In Canada, we work closely with lenders to identify and monitor delinquent borrowers. When a delinquency cannot be cured through basic collections, we work with the lender and, if permitted, with the borrower to identify an optimal loan workout solution. If it is determined that the borrower has the capacity to make a modified mortgage payment, we work with the lender to implement the most appropriate payment plan to address the borrower&#146;s hardship situation. If the borrower does not have the capacity to make payments on a modified loan, we work with the lender and borrower to sell the property at the best price to minimize the severity of our claim and provide the borrower with a reasonable resolution. In Canada, we continue to execute a strategy to accelerate and facilitate the conveyance of real estate properties to us in selected circumstances. This strategy allows for better control of the remediation and marketing processes, reduction in carrying costs during the sale process and potential realization of a higher sales price with the cumulative impact being lower losses. 

After a delinquency is reported to us, or after a claim is received, we review, and where appropriate conduct further investigations, to determine if there has been an event of underwriting non-compliance, non-disclosure of relevant information or any misrepresentation of information provided during the underwriting process. Our master policies provide that we may rescind coverage if there has been any failure to comply with agreed underwriting criteria or in the event of fraud or misrepresentation involving the lender or an agent of the lender. If such issues are identified, the claim or delinquent loan file is reviewed to determine the appropriate action, including potentially reducing the claim amount to be paid or rescinding the coverage. Generally, the issues we have initially identified are reviewed with the lender and the lender has an opportunity to provide further information or documentation to resolve the issue. Additionally, we may pursue recoveries from borrowers for paid claims within the time period permitted by law and may use third-party collection agencies to assist in these recoveries. 

Distribution and customers 

We maintain dedicated sales forces that market our mortgage insurance products in Canada to lenders. Our sales forces market to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. 

Residential mortgage financing in Canada is concentrated in the country&#146;s largest five banks and a limited number of other mortgage originators. The majority of our business in Canada comes from this group of residential mortgage originators. For example, one major lender customer (defined as a lender that individually accounts for more than 10% of gross written premiums in our mortgage insurance business in Canada) represented 16% of total gross written premiums in our mortgage insurance business in Canada for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Competition 

Our primary mortgage insurance competitor in Canada is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (&#147;CMHC&#148;) which is owned by the Canadian government, although we currently have one other private 

&#160;

competitor in the Canadian market. CMHC&#146;s mortgage insurance provides lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements. We compete with CMHC primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and provision of support services. 

Australia Mortgage Insurance 

We entered the Australian mortgage insurance market in 1997. In 2015, we were the leading provider of mortgage insurance in Australia based upon flow new insurance written. 

On May 15, 2014, Genworth Mortgage Insurance Australia Limited (&#147;Genworth Australia&#148;), a holding company for Genworth&#146;s Australian mortgage insurance business, completed an IPO of its common shares and we currently beneficially own 52.0% of the ordinary shares of Genworth Australia through subsidiaries. See note 23 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information. 

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our Australia Mortgage Insurance segment are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Australia Mortgage Insurance segment.&#148; 

Products 

In Australia, our main products are primary flow mortgage insurance, also known as lenders mortgage insurance (&#147;LMI&#148;), and bulk mortgage insurance. LMI is similar to the single premium primary flow mortgage insurance we offer in Canada with 100% coverage. Residential mortgage loans in Australia are predominantly variable rate loans with 25 to 30 year terms. Lenders remit the single premium to us as the mortgage insurer following settlement of the loan and, generally, either collect the equivalent amount from the borrower at the time the loan proceeds are advanced or capitalize it in the loan. 

Banks, building societies and credit unions generally acquire LMI only for residential mortgage loans with loan-to-value ratios above 80%. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (&#147;APRA&#148;) prudential standards for authorized deposit-taking institutions (&#147;ADIs&#148;) using the standard Basel II approach provide reduced capital requirements for high loan-to-value residential mortgage loans if they have been insured by a mortgage insurance company regulated by APRA. The capital levels for Australian internal ratings-based (&#147;IRB&#148;) ADIs are determined by their APRA-approved IRB models, which may or may not allocate capital credit for LMI. We believe that APRA and the IRB ADIs have not yet finalized internal models for residential mortgage risk, but we do not believe that the IRB ADIs currently benefit from an explicit reduction in their capital requirements for mortgage loans covered by mortgage insurance. APRA&#146;s insurance authorization conditions require Australian mortgage insurance companies, including ours, to be monoline insurers, which are insurance companies that offer just one type of insurance product. 

We also provide bulk mortgage insurance in Australia mainly to APRA-regulated lenders that intend to securitize Australian residential loans they have originated. Bulk mortgage insurance serves as an important source of credit enhancement for the Australian securitization market, and our bulk coverage is generally purchased for low loan-to-value, seasoned loans, and accounted for approximately 7% of new insurance written in our Australian mortgage insurance business for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Underwriting and pricing 

Loan applications for all flow loans we insure in Australia are reviewed either by us or approved lenders under delegated underwriting authority to evaluate each individual borrower&#146;s credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Unlike in the United States where FICO credit scores are broadly used in evaluating a borrower&#146;s credit strength, standardized credit scores are not widely 

&#160;

used in Australia. We employ internal scoring models in the underwriting process and use risk rules models to enhance the underwriter&#146;s ability to evaluate the loan risk and make consistent underwriting decisions. Additional tools used by our mortgage insurance business in Australia include automated valuation models to evaluate property risk and fraud application prevention and management tools. When underwriting bulk mortgage insurance transactions, we evaluate characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. 

Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees or by employees of qualified mortgage lender customers who underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program. This delegated underwriting program permits approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. We have established an audit plan to review delegated underwritten loans to ensure compliance with the approved underwriting guidelines, operational procedures and master policy requirements. Our audit teams request and review samples (statistically valid and/or stratified) of performing loans. Once an audit review has been completed, our audit teams summarize and evaluate their findings against policy. If our audit teams detect non-compliance issues, we work with the lender to develop appropriate corrective actions. 

We regularly take actions to reduce our new business risk profile, which includes: tightening underwriting guidelines, product restrictions, reducing new business in geographic areas we believe are more economically sensitive, and terminating commercial relationships as a result of weaker business performance. We have also increased prices for certain products based on periodic reviews of performance, with a focus on higher risk segments. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions have improved our performance on new books of business. 

Loss mitigation 

In Australia, we work closely with lenders to identify and monitor delinquent borrowers. When a delinquency cannot be cured through basic collections, we work with the lender to identify an optimal loan workout solution. If it is determined that the borrower has the capacity to make a modified mortgage loan payment, we work with the lender to implement the most appropriate payment plan to address the borrower&#146;s hardship situation. If the borrower does not have the capacity to make payments on a modified loan, we work with the lender and borrower to sell the property at the best price to minimize the severity of our claim and provide the borrower with a reasonable resolution. 

After a delinquency is reported to us, or after a claim is received, we review, and where appropriate conduct further investigations, to determine if there has been an event of underwriting non-compliance, non-disclosure of relevant information or any misrepresentation of information provided during the underwriting process. Our master policies provide that we may rescind coverage if there has been any failure to comply with agreed underwriting criteria or in the event of fraud or misrepresentation involving the lender or an agent of the lender. If such issues are identified, the claim or delinquent loan file is reviewed to determine the appropriate action, including potentially reducing the claim amount to be paid or rescinding the coverage. Generally, the issues we have initially identified are reviewed with the lender and the lender has an opportunity to provide further information or documentation to resolve the issue. 

We may also review a group or portfolio of insured loans if we believe there may be systemic misrepresentations or non-compliance issues. If such issues are detected, we generally will work with the lender to develop an agreed settlement in respect of the group of loans so identified. Additionally, we may pursue recoveries from borrowers for paid claims within the time period permitted by law and may use third-party collection agencies to assist in these recoveries. 

Distribution and customers 

We maintain dedicated sales forces that market our mortgage insurance products in Australia to lenders. Our sales forces market to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. 

&#160;

There is concentration among a small group of banks that write most of the residential mortgage loans in Australia. We maintain strong relationships within the major bank and regional bank channels, as well as building societies, credit unions and non-bank mortgage originators called mortgage managers. The four largest mortgage originators in Australia provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Our mortgage insurance business in Australia is concentrated in a small number of key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 72% and 66%, respectively, of our new insurance written and gross written premiums in our mortgage insurance business in Australia were attributable to our largest three customers, with the largest customer representing 34% and 44%, respectively, of new insurance written and gross written premiums during that year. The term of the current supply and service contract with our largest customer expires on December 31, 2016, unless it is terminated earlier in certain circumstances, including, among other things, a downgrade of the financial strength rating of our principal mortgage insurance subsidiary in Australia by Standard &#38; Poor&#146;s Financial Services, LLC (&#147;S&#38;P&#148;) to below &#147;A-&#148; (subject to certain exceptions). The contract with our second largest customer expires in February 2017 unless it is terminated earlier in certain customary circumstances. The contract with our third largest customer is set to expire in November 2017 with a 12-month extension option at the customer&#146;s discretion but can be terminated at any time by either party with a 90-day notification period. It is our current expectation that we would negotiate with our largest customers to renew or extend the above mentioned contracts beyond their current expiration dates on terms acceptable to all parties. 

These banks continue to evaluate the utilization of mortgage insurance in connection with the implementation of the bank capital standards in Australia based on the standards of the Basel Committee, and this could impact both the size of the private mortgage insurance market in Australia and our market share. The response of banks to the new capital standards will develop over time and this response could impact our Australian mortgage insurance business. 

Competition 

The Australian flow mortgage insurance market is primarily served by us and one other private mortgage insurance company, as well as certain lender-affiliated captive mortgage insurance companies. In addition, some lenders may self-insure certain high loan-to-value mortgage risks. We compete primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development and provision of support services. 

U.S. Life Insurance 

Through our U.S. Life Insurance segment, we offer long-term care insurance products as well as service traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products. On February 4, 2016, we announced our decision to suspend sales of our traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products. While we will no longer sell these products, we will continue to service our existing retained and reinsured blocks of business. Future long-term care solutions may include over time new life insurance and fixed annuity products with accelerated benefit or other features that address long-term care needs and expand access to broader consumer groups. 

In February 2016, we also launched IncomeAssurance SM , a medically underwritten single premium immediate annuity product. IncomeAssurance SM is designed for older Americans and provides a lifetime, guaranteed income solution to help fund care or other priorities. It provides access to a new consumer group who generally would not qualify for a traditional long-term care insurance products purchased in advance of needing care. We teamed with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited (&#147;Partnership&#148;), a leading U.K. insurer, to develop IncomeAssurance SM . The relationship combines our distribution and long-term care insurance leadership position with Partnership&#146;s intellectual property, underwriting and product expertise. IncomeAssurance SM will be substantially reinsured to Partnership. 

&#160;

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our U.S. Life Insurance segment are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;U.S. Life Insurance segment.&#148; 

Long-term care insurance 

We established ourselves as a pioneer in long-term care insurance 40 years ago and remain a leading provider in the industry. Our experience helps us plan for disciplined growth built on a foundation of risk management, product innovation, a diversified distribution strategy and claims processing expertise. We believe our hedging strategies and reinsurance reduce some of the risks associated with these products. 

Products 

Our individual and group long-term care insurance products provide defined levels of protection against the significant and escalating costs of long-term care services provided in the insured&#146;s home or in assisted living or nursing facilities. In contrast to health insurance, long-term care insurance provides coverage for skilled and custodial care provided outside of a hospital or health-related facility. 

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we introduced a product which increased premium rates but gave consumers the flexibility to choose the right fit for their long-term care needs, combined with the simplicity of prepackaged benefits. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we began filing for regulatory approval of an enhanced product to improve competitiveness, while meeting our targeted returns, by, among other things, reducing premium rates and adjusting coverage options. As of December 31, 2015, this enhanced product had been filed in 47 states, approved in 45 states and launched in 43 states, with an additional two states targeted to be launched in the first half of 2016. In support of this product, we are investing in targeted distribution and marketing initiatives to increase long-term care insurance sales. In addition, we are evaluating market trends and sales and investing in the development of products and distribution strategies that we believe will help expand the long-term care insurance market over time and meet broader consumer needs. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we suspended sales of our individual long-term care insurance products in Massachusetts and New Hampshire because we were unable to obtain satisfactory rates and rate increases on in-force policies. We had previously suspended sales of our individual long-term care insurance products in Vermont. Effective June 1, 2013, we also no longer offer AARP-branded long-term care insurance products. 

Underwriting 

We employ medical underwriting procedures to assess and quantify risks before we issue our individual long-term care insurance policies. In 2013, as part of our underwriting procedures, we require blood and lab screening of all applicants. Our group long-term care insurance product utilizes various underwriting processes, including modified guaranteed underwriting for actively at work employees, simplified underwriting for spouses of actively at work employees and full medical underwriting for employees outside their enrollment window, retirees or others. We periodically review our underwriting requirements and have made, and may make changes to processes as needed, including whether we continue to require blood and lab screening of all applicants.

Pricing 

We have accumulated extensive pricing and claims experience, and believe we have the largest claims database in the industry. The overall financial performance of our long-term care insurance business depends primarily on the accuracy of our pricing assumptions, including for morbidity and mortality experience, persistency and investment yields. Our claims database provides us with substantial data that has helped us develop pricing methodologies for our newer policies. We tailor pricing based on segmented risk categories, including couples, gender, medical history and other factors. Financial performance on older policies issued without the full benefit of this experience has been worse than initially assumed in pricing of those blocks. We continually monitor trends and developments and update assumptions that may affect the risk, pricing and profitability of our long-term care insurance products and adjust our new product pricing and other terms, as 

&#160;

appropriate. We also work with a medical advisory board comprised of independent experts from the medical field that provides insights on emerging morbidity and medical trends, enabling us to be more proactive in our risk segmentation, pricing and product development strategies. 

In-force rate actions 

As part of our strategy for our long-term care insurance business, we have been implementing, and expect to continue to pursue, significant premium rate increases on older generation blocks of business that were written before 2002 in order to bring those blocks closer to a break-even point over time and reduce the strain on our earnings and capital. We are also requesting premium rate increases on newer blocks of business, as needed, to help bring their loss ratios back towards their original pricing and introducing new products that are underwritten and priced to reflect our recent experience and updated assumptions. 

In the third quarter of 2012, we initiated a round of long-term care insurance in-force premium rate increases on three policy series of older generation policies and on one early series of new generation policies. In the third quarter of 2013, we began filing for regulatory approval for premium rate increases on a second series of our new generation products. We will continue to pursue these rate increases in all states as required to meet our objectives. The goal of our rate actions already implemented, as well as future rate actions, is to mitigate losses on our older generation policy series and help offset higher than priced-for loss ratios and lower returns on newer generation products. In addition to premium increases received, reserve levels, and thus our profitability, have been impacted, and we expect they will continue to be impacted, by policyholder behavior in response to premium rate increases which could include taking reduced benefits or non-forfeiture options. We received 35 filing approvals from 24 states in 2015, representing a weighted-average increase of 29% on $739 million in annualized in-force premiums. We also submitted 79 new filings in 28 states in 2015, representing $546 million in in-force premiums. 

The approval process for in-force rate increases and the amount and timing of the rate increases approved varies by state. In certain states, the decision to approve or disapprove a rate increase can take more than a year. Upon approval, insureds are provided with written notice of the increase and increases are generally applied on the insured&#146;s next policy anniversary date. Therefore, the benefits of any rate increase are not fully realized until the implementation cycle is complete. For certain risks related to our long-term care insurance premiums and rate increases, see &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;We may not be able to increase premiums or reduce benefits on our in-force long-term care insurance policies by enough or quickly enough and the rate actions or reduced benefits currently being implemented and any future rate actions may adversely affect demand for our long-term care insurance products, our reputation in the market, our results of operations and our financial condition.&#148; 

Distribution 

Currently, we distribute our products primarily through appointed independent producers, financial intermediaries and employer groups. As we develop our product portfolio, we plan to expand our distribution strategy to strengthen access to customers we serve today and those we intend to serve going forward. We expect to deepen existing relationships with select distribution partners whose priorities closely align with ours. Additionally, we intend to focus on forming new partnerships that may incrementally expand our customer reach, especially to those in the middle market. Across all channels, we expect to prioritize closer relationships with consumers. 

Following the adverse rating actions after the announcement of our results for the fourth quarter of 2015, distributors, representing in excess of 20% of our 2015 individual long-term care insurance sales, suspended distribution of our long-term care insurance products. We expect that our sales will continue to be adversely impacted by our current ratings. 

&#160;

Competition 

Competition in the long-term care insurance industry is primarily from a limited number of insurance companies. Our products compete by providing consumers with an array of long-term care coverage solutions, coupled with long-term care support services. A broad set of insurers compete in the combination product market whereby they offer life insurance products with riders that accelerate benefits based upon a long-term care need, and other combination products. We expect continued changes in the competitive landscape of the long-term care insurance market as well as our financial strength ratings will continue to impact our sales levels. 

Life insurance 

Life insurance products provide protection against financial hardship after the death of an insured. Some of these products also offer a savings element that can help accumulate funds to meet future financial needs. Our traditional life insurance product offerings previously included universal life insurance in the form of index universal life and linked-benefit products, combining a universal life insurance contract with a long-term care insurance rider, and term life insurance. We also have in-force blocks of term universal life and whole life insurance. 

Fixed annuities 

Fixed annuity products help individuals create dependable income streams for life or for a specified period of time and help them save and invest to achieve financial goals. Our traditional fixed annuity product offerings previously included single premium deferred annuities, single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements. 

Single premium deferred annuities 

Fixed single premium deferred annuities require a single premium payment at time of issue and provide an accumulation period and an annuity payout period. The annuity payout period in these products may be either a defined number of years, the annuitant&#146;s lifetime or the longer of a defined number of years and the annuitant&#146;s lifetime. During the accumulation period, we credit the account value of the annuity with interest earned at a crediting rate guaranteed for no less than one year at issue, but which may be guaranteed for up to seven years, and thereafter is subject to annual crediting rate resets at our discretion. The crediting rate is based upon many factors including prevailing market rates, spreads and targeted returns, subject to statutory and contractual minimums. The majority of our fixed single premium deferred annuity contractholders retain their contracts for five to ten years. 

Fixed indexed annuities have been part of our product suite of single premium deferred annuities. Fixed indexed annuities provide an annual crediting rate that is based on the performance of a defined external index rather than a rate that is declared by the insurance company. The external indices we use are the S&#38;P 500 &#174; and the Barclay&#146;s U.S. Low Volatility ER II Index. Our fixed indexed annuity product also may provide guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (&#147;GMWBs&#148;). 

Single premium immediate annuities 

Single premium immediate annuities provide a fixed amount of income for either a defined number of years, the annuitant&#146;s lifetime or the longer of a defined number of years and the annuitant&#146;s lifetime in exchange for a single premium. 

Structured settlements 

Structured settlement annuity contracts provide an alternative to a lump sum settlement, generally in a personal injury lawsuit or workers compensation claim, and typically are purchased by property and casualty insurance companies for the benefit of an injured claimant. The structured settlements provide scheduled payments over a fixed period or, in the case of a life-contingent structured settlement, for the life of the claimant with a guaranteed minimum period of payments. 

&#160;

Runoff 

The Runoff segment includes the results of non-strategic products which are no longer actively sold. Our non-strategic products primarily include variable annuity, variable life insurance, institutional, corporate-owned life insurance and other accident and health insurance products. Institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs. We no longer offer retail and group variable annuities but continue to service our existing blocks of business. 

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our Runoff segment are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151; Runoff segment.&#148; 

Products 

Variable annuities and variable life insurance 

Our variable annuities provide contractholders the ability to allocate purchase payments and contract value to underlying investment options available in a separate account format. The contractholder bears the risk associated with the performance of investments in the separate account. In addition, some of our variable annuities permit customers to allocate assets to a guaranteed interest account managed within our general account. Certain of our variable annuity products provide contractholders with lifetime guaranteed income benefits. Our variable annuity products generally provide guaranteed minimum death benefits (&#147;GMDBs&#148;) and may provide GMWBs and certain types of guaranteed annuitization benefits. 

Variable annuities generally provide us fees including mortality and expense risk charges and, in some cases, administrative charges. The fees equal a percentage of the contractholder&#146;s policy account value or related benefit base value, and as of December 31, 2015, ranged from 0.75% to 4.20% per annum depending on the features and options within a contract. 

Our variable annuity contracts with a basic GMDB provide a minimum benefit to be paid upon the annuitant&#146;s death, usually equal to the larger of account value and the return of net deposits. Some contractholders also have riders that provide enhanced death benefits. Assuming every annuitant died on December 31, 2015, as of that date, contracts with death benefit features not covered by reinsurance had an account value of $5,378 million and a related death benefit exposure, or net amount at risk, of $193 million. 

Some of our variable annuity products provide the contractholder with a guaranteed minimum income stream that they cannot outlive, along with an opportunity to participate in market appreciation. 

We no longer offer retail and group variable annuities or variable life insurance products; however, we continue to service our existing block of business which could include additional deposits on existing annuity contracts. 

Institutional 

Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit-type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We explore periodic issuance of our institutional products for asset-liability management purposes. 

Corporate-owned life insurance 

We no longer offer our corporate-owned life insurance product; however, we continue to manage our existing block of business. 

&#160;

Other accident and health insurance 

Our other accident and health insurance includes Medicare supplement insurance reinsured to a third party, and certain disability, accident and health insurance that we no longer sell. 

Corporate and Other Activities 

Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at the Genworth Holdings level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter-segment transactions and the results of other businesses that are managed outside our operating segments, including discontinued operations. Corporate and Other activities include our mortgage insurance businesses in Europe. Additionally, we have a presence in the private mortgage insurance market in Mexico and maintain a license in Korea with a small portfolio currently in runoff. We are also a minority shareholder of a joint venture partnership in India that offers mortgage guarantees against borrower defaults on housing loans from mortgage lenders in India. The financial impact of this joint venture was minimal during 2015, 2014 and 2013. On October 27, 2015, we entered into an agreement to sell our European mortgage insurance business. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016 and is subject to customary conditions, including requisite regulatory approvals. See note 24 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information. 

On December 1, 2015, we sold our lifestyle protection insurance business to AXA for approximately $493 million. This business was accounted for as discontinued operations and its financial position, results of operations and cash flows were separately reported for all periods presented. We received net proceeds of approximately $400 million from the sale, subject to the finalization of closing balance sheet purchase price adjustments. See note 24 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information. 

Selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our Corporate and Other activities are included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Corporate and Other activities.&#148; 

International Operations 

Our total revenues attributed to international operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were approximately $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. More information regarding our international operations and revenue in our largest countries is presented in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Risk Management 

Risk management is a critical part of our business. We have an enterprise risk management framework that includes risk management processes relating to economic capital analysis, product development, product pricing and management of in-force business, credit risk management, asset-liability management, liquidity management, investment activities, portfolio diversification, underwriting and risk and loss mitigation, financial databases and information systems, business dispositions, and operational capabilities. The risk management framework includes an assessment and implementation of company and business risk appetites, the identification and assessment of risks, a proactive decision process to determine which risks are acceptable to be retained, based on risk and reward considerations, limit setting on major risks, emerging risk identification and the ongoing monitoring, reporting and management of risks. We adhere to risk management disciplines and aim to leverage these efforts into a competitive advantage in distribution and management of our products. 

&#160;

As part of our evaluation of in-force product performance, new product initiatives and risk mitigation alternatives, we monitor regulatory and rating agency capital models as well as internal economic capital models to determine the appropriate level of risk-adjusted capital. We utilize our internal economic capital model to assess the risk of loss to our capital resources based upon the portfolio of risks we underwrite and retain and upon our asset and operational risk profiles. Our commitment to risk management involves the ongoing review and expansion of internal risk management capabilities with a focus on utilizing top talent, improved infrastructure and modeling. 

Product development and management 

Our risk management process begins with the development and introduction of new products and services. We have established a product development process that specifies a series of required analyses, reviews and approvals for any new product. For each proposed product, this process includes a review of the market opportunity and competitive landscape, major pricing assumptions and methodologies, return expectations and variability of returns, sensitivity analysis, asset-liability management, reinsurance and other risk mitigating strategies, underwriting criteria, legal, compliance and business risks and potential mitigating actions. Before we introduce a new product, we establish a monitoring program with specific performance targets and leading indicators, which we monitor frequently to identify any deviations from expected performance so that we can take corrective action when necessary. Significant product introductions, measured either by volume, level or type of risk, require approval by our senior management team at either the business or enterprise level. 

We use a similar process to introduce changes to existing products and to offer existing products in new markets and through new distribution channels. Product performance reviews include an analysis of the major drivers of profitability, underwriting performance and variations from expected results including an in-depth experience analysis of the product&#146;s major risk factors. Other areas of focus include the regulatory and competitive environments and other emerging factors that may affect product performance. 

In addition, we initiate special reviews when a product&#146;s performance fails to meet the indicators we established during that product&#146;s introductory review process for subsequent reviews of in-force blocks of business. If a product does not meet our performance criteria, we consider adjustments in pricing, design and marketing or ultimately discontinuing sales of that product. We review our underwriting, pricing, distribution and risk selection strategies on a regular basis in an effort to ensure that our products remain competitive and consistent with our marketing and profitability objectives. For example, in our mortgage insurance businesses, we review the profitability of lender accounts to assess whether our business with these lenders is achieving anticipated performance levels and to identify trends requiring remedial action, including changes to underwriting guidelines, product mix or other customer performance. 

Asset-liability management 

We maintain segmented investment portfolios for the majority of our product lines. This enables us to perform an ongoing analysis of the interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity, volatility and liquidity risks associated with each major product line, in addition to credit risks for our overall enterprise versus approved limits. We analyze the behavior of our liability cash flows across a wide variety of scenarios, reflecting policy features and expected policyholder behavior. We also analyze the cash flows of our asset portfolios across the same scenarios. We believe this analysis shows the sensitivity of both our assets and liabilities to changes in economic environments and enables us to manage our assets and liabilities more effectively. In addition, we deploy hedging programs to mitigate certain economic risks associated with our assets, liabilities and capital. For example, we partially hedge the equity, interest rate and market volatility risks in our variable annuity products, as well as interest rate risks in our long-term care insurance products. 

&#160;

Liquidity management 

We monitor the cash and highly marketable investment positions in each of our operating companies against operating targets that are designed to ensure that we will have the cash necessary to meet our obligations as they come due. The targets are set based on stress scenarios that have the effect of increasing our expected cash outflows and decreasing our expected cash inflows. In addition, we monitor the ability of our operating companies to provide the dividends needed to meet the cash needs of our holding companies and analyze the impact of reduced dividend levels under stress scenarios. 

Portfolio diversification and investments 

We use new business and in-force product limits to manage our risk concentrations and to manage product, business level, geographic and other risk exposures. We manage unique product exposures in our business segments. For example, in managing our mortgage insurance risk exposure, we monitor geographic concentrations in our portfolio and the condition of housing markets in each major area in the countries in which we operate. We also monitor fundamental price indicators and factors that affect home prices and their affordability at the national and regional levels. 

In addition, our assets are managed within limitations to control credit risk and to avoid excessive concentration in our investment portfolio using defined investment and concentration guidelines that help ensure disciplined underwriting and oversight standards. We seek diversification in our investment portfolio by investing in multiple asset classes and limiting size of exposures. The portfolios are tailored to match the cash flow characteristics of our liabilities, and actively monitoring exposures, changes in credit characteristics and shifts in markets. 

We utilize surveillance and quantitative credit risk analytics to identify concentrations and drive diversification of portfolio risks with respect to issuer, sector, rating and geographic concentration. Issuer credit limits for the investment portfolios of each of our businesses (based on business capital, portfolio size and relative issuer cumulative default risk) govern and control credit concentrations in our portfolio. Derivatives counterparty risk and credit derivatives are integrated into issuer limits as well. We also limit and actively monitor country and sovereign exposures in our global portfolio and evaluate and adjust our risk profiles, where needed, in response to geopolitical and economic developments in the relevant areas. 

Underwriting and risk and loss mitigation 

Underwriting guidelines for all products are routinely reviewed and adjusted as necessary with the aim at providing policyholders with the appropriate premium and benefit structure. We seek external reviews from the reinsurance and consulting communities and to utilize their experience to calibrate our risk taking to expected outcomes. 

Our risk and loss mitigation activities include ensuring that new policies are issued based on accurate information that we receive and that policy benefit payments are paid in accordance with the policy contract terms. 

Financial databases and information systems 

Our financial databases and information systems technology are important tools in our risk management. For example, we believe we have the largest database for long-term care insurance claims with 40 years of experience in offering those products. We also have substantial experience in offering individual life insurance products with a large database of claims experience, particularly in preferred risk classes, which has significant predictive value. We have extensive data on the performance of mortgage originations in the United States and other major markets we operate in which we use to assess the drivers and distributions of delinquency and claims experience. 

&#160;

We use technology, in some cases proprietary technology, to manage variations in our underwriting process. For example, in our mortgage insurance businesses, we use borrower credit bureau information, proprietary mortgage scoring models and/or our extensive database of mortgage insurance experience along with external data including rating agency data to evaluate new products and portfolio performance. In the United States and Canada, our proprietary mortgage scoring models use the borrower&#146;s credit score and additional data concerning the borrower, the loan and the property, including loan-to-value ratio, loan type, loan amount, property type, occupancy status and borrower employment to predict the likelihood of having to pay a claim. In addition, our models take into consideration macroeconomic variables such as unemployment, interest rate and home price changes. We believe assessing housing market and mortgage loan attributes across a range of economic outcomes enhances our ability to manage and price for risk. We perform portfolio analysis on an ongoing basis to determine if modifications are required to our product offerings, underwriting guidelines or premium rates. 

We rely extensively on complex models to calculate the value of assets and liabilities (including reserves), capital levels and other financial metrics, as well as for other purposes. We have a model risk management framework in place that is designed to ensure appropriate governance of model risk. Independent model validation teams assess on a systematic basis the appropriate use of models, taking into account the risks associated with assumptions, algorithms and process controls supporting the use of the models. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;If the models used in our businesses are inaccurate, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.&#148; 

Business dispositions 

When we consider a disposition of a block or book of business or entity, we use various business, financial and risk management disciplines to evaluate the merits of the proposals and assess its strategic fit with our current business model. We have a review process that includes a series of required analyses, reviews and approvals similar to those employed for new product introductions. 

Operational capabilities 

We have risk management programs in place to review the continued operation of our businesses in the event of loss or other adverse consequences on business outcomes resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. We provide risk assessments, together with control reviews, to provide an indication as to how the risks need to be managed. Significant events impacting our businesses are assessed in terms of their impact on our risk profile. Controls are used to mitigate the likelihood of a risk occurring or minimizing the consequence of the risk if it did occur. Investigative teams are maintained in our various locations to address potential operational risk incidents from both internal and external sources. 

Operations and Technology 

Service and support 

In our mortgage insurance businesses, we have introduced technology enabled services to help our customers (lenders and servicers) as well as our consumers (borrowers and homeowners). Technology advancements have allowed us to reduce application approval turn-times, error rates and enhance our customers&#146; ease of doing business with us. Through our secure internet-enabled information systems and data warehouses, servicers can transact business with us in a timely manner. In the United States, proprietary, decision models have helped generate loss mitigation strategies for distressed borrowers. Our models use information from various third-party sources, such as consumer credit agencies, to indicate borrower willingness and capacity to fulfill debt obligations. Identification of specific borrower groups that are likely to work their loans out allows us to create custom outreach strategies to achieve a favorable loss mitigation outcome. 

In our U.S. life insurance businesses, we interact directly with our independent sales intermediaries through secure websites that have enabled them to transact business with us electronically. 

&#160;

Operating centers 

We have established scalable, low-cost operating centers in Virginia and North Carolina. In addition, through an arrangement with an outsourcing provider, we have a substantial team of professionals in India who provide a variety of services to us, including data entry, transaction processing and functional support to our insurance operations. 

Reserves 

We calculate and maintain reserves for estimated future payments of claims to our policyholders and contractholders in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;) and industry accounting practices. We build these reserves as the estimated value of those obligations increases, and we release these reserves as those future obligations are paid, experience changes or policies lapse. The reserves we establish reflect estimates and actuarial assumptions and methodologies with regard to our future experience. These estimates and actuarial assumptions and methodologies involve the exercise of significant judgment and are inherently uncertain. These estimates and actuarial assumptions and methodologies are subjected to a variety of internal reviews and, in some cases, external independent reviews. Our future financial results depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual future experience is consistent with the assumptions we have used in determining our reserves as well as the assumptions originally used in pricing our products. Small changes in assumptions or small deviations of actual experience from assumptions can have, and in the past had, material impacts on our reserves, results of operations and financial condition. Many factors, and changes in these factors, can affect future experience including, but not limited to: interest rates; market returns and volatility; economic and social conditions such as inflation, unemployment, home price appreciation or depreciation, and healthcare experience (including type of care and cost of care); policyholder persistency or lapses (i.e., the probability that a policy or contract will remain in-force from one period to the next); insured life expectancy or longevity; insured morbidity (i.e., frequency and severity of claim, including claim termination rates and benefit utilization rates); and doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Because these assumptions relate to factors that are not known in advance, change over time, are difficult to accurately predict and are inherently uncertain, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts we will pay for actual claims or the timing of those payments. Moreover, we may not be able to mitigate the impact of unexpected adverse experience by increasing premiums and/or other charges to policyholders (where we have the right to do so) or by offering reduced benefits as an alternative to increasing premiums. 

For additional information on reserves, see &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Critical Accounting Estimates&#151;Insurance liabilities and reserves.&#148; 

Reinsurance 

We reinsure a portion of our annuity, life insurance, long-term care insurance and mortgage insurance with unaffiliated reinsurers. In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to minimize exposure to significant risks, limit losses, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We also obtain reinsurance to meet certain capital requirements, including sometimes utilizing intercompany reinsurance agreements to manage our statutory capital positions. However, these intercompany agreements do not have an effect on our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. 

We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess of loss or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect or losses. For example, in addition to reinsuring mortality risk on our life insurance products, we are coinsuring approximately 20% of all our long-term care insurance sales. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. 

&#160;

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible. Our amounts recoverable from reinsurers represent receivables from and/or reserves ceded to reinsurers. The amounts recoverable from reinsurers were $17.2 billion and $17.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

We focus on obtaining reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers. We regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentration risk with our reinsurers at least annually. Our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries have established standards and criteria for our use and selection of reinsurers. In order for a new reinsurer to participate in our current program, without collateralization, we require the reinsurer to have an S&#38;P rating of &#147;A-&#148; or better or a Moody&#146;s Investors Services Inc. (&#147;Moody&#146;s&#148;) rating of &#147;A3&#148; or better and a minimum capital and surplus level of $350 million. If the reinsurer does not have these ratings, we generally require them to post collateral as described below. In addition, we may require collateral from a reinsurer to mitigate credit/collectability risk. Typically, in such cases, the reinsurer must either maintain minimum specified ratings and risk-based capital (&#147;RBC&#148;) ratios or provide the specified quality and quantity of collateral. Similarly, we have also required collateral in connection with books of business sold pursuant to indemnity reinsurance agreements. We have been required to post collateral when purchasing books of business. 

Reinsurers that are not licensed, accredited or authorized in the state of domicile of the reinsured (&#147;ceding company&#148;) are required to post statutorily prescribed forms of collateral for the ceding company to receive reinsurance credit. The three primary forms of collateral are: (i) qualifying assets held in a reserve credit trust; (ii) irrevocable, unconditional, evergreen letters of credit issued by a qualified U.S. financial institution; and (iii) assets held by the ceding company in a segregated funds withheld account. Collateral must be maintained in accordance with the rules of the ceding company&#146;s state of domicile and must be readily accessible by the ceding company to cover claims under the reinsurance agreement. Accordingly, our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries require unauthorized reinsurers that are not so licensed, accredited or authorized to post acceptable forms of collateral to support their reinsurance obligations to us. 

The following table sets forth our exposure to our principal reinsurers in our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015: 

&#160;

(Amounts in millions) 

&#160; Reinsurance recoverable &#160; UFLIC (1) 

&#160; $ 14,363 &#160; RGA Reinsurance Company

&#160; &#160; 959 &#160; Munich American Reassurance Company

&#160; &#160; 710 &#160; Riversource Life Insurance Company (2) 

&#160; &#160; 533 &#160; General Re Life Corporation

&#160; &#160; 352 &#160; &#160;

(1) &#160; We have several significant reinsurance transactions with Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company (&#147;UFLIC&#148;), an affiliate of our former parent, General Electric Company (&#147;GE&#148;), which results in a significant concentration of reinsurance risk. UFLIC&#146;s obligations to us are secured by trust accounts. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#148; (2) &#160; Our reinsurance arrangement with Riversource Life Insurance Company covers a runoff block of single premium term life insurance policies. We have also historically entered into reinsurance programs in which we share portions of our U.S. mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede to the captive reinsurers a predetermined portion of our gross premiums on flow insurance written. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to 

&#160;

these arrangements. As of December 31, 2015, we recorded U.S. mortgage insurance ceded loss reserves of $6 million within reinsurance recoverable where cumulative losses have exceeded the attachment points in several captive reinsurance arrangements. In addition, our U.S. mortgage insurance business entered into three new reinsurance agreements in order to obtain PMIERs credit. For additional information regarding these new agreements, see &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Significant Developments.&#148; 

In our mortgage insurance business in Australia, all of the reinsurance treaties are on an excess of loss basis that are designed to attach only under stress loss events and are renewable (with the agreement of both us and the relevant reinsurers) on a periodic basis. As of December 31, 2015, our Australian mortgage insurance business had six portfolio excess of loss reinsurance treaties with an aggregate coverage limit of AUD$875 million. This coverage was provided by more than 20 reinsurance partners, each currently rated &#147;A&#148; or better by S&#38;P and/or A.M. Best Company, Inc. (&#147;A.M. Best&#148;). All treaties qualify for full capital credit offset within APRA&#146;s regulatory capital requirements. Most of the treaties have a two-year base term with options to extend for three to four years. On January 1, 2016, our Australian mortgage insurance business restructured its reinsurance placement to have seven portfolio excess of loss treaties with an aggregate coverage limit of AUD$950 million. This coverage is provided by more than 20 reinsurance partners rated &#147;A&#148; by S&#38;P and/or A.M. Best and is designed to provide reinsurance under severe stress events. These treaties qualify for full capital credit offset within APRA&#146;s regulatory capital requirements. Most of the treaties have a two-year base term with options to extend for three to six years. 

For additional information related to reinsurance, see note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#148; 

Financial Strength Ratings 

Ratings with respect to financial strength are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in us and our ability to market our products. Rating organizations review the financial performance and condition of most insurers and provide opinions regarding financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. 

As of February 25, 2016, our principal mortgage insurance subsidiaries were rated in terms of financial strength by S&#38;P, Moody&#146;s and Dominion Bond Rating Service (&#147;DBRS&#148;) as follows: 

&#160;

Company 

&#160; S&#38;P rating &#160; Moody&#146;s rating &#160; DBRS rating Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation

&#160; BB+ (Marginal) &#160; Ba1 (Questionable) &#160; Not rated Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company Canada

&#160; A+ (Strong) &#160; Not rated &#160; AA (Superior) Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty. Limited (Australia) (1) 

&#160; A+ (Strong) &#160; A3 (Good) &#160; Not rated &#160;

(1) &#160; Also rated &#147;A+&#148; by Fitch Ratings (&#147;Fitch&#148;). As of February 25, 2016, our principal life insurance subsidiaries were rated in terms of financial strength by S&#38;P, Moody&#146;s and A.M. Best as follows: 

&#160;

Company 

&#160; S&#38;P rating &#160; Moody&#146;s rating &#160; A.M. Best rating Genworth Life Insurance Company

&#160; BB (Marginal) &#160; Ba1 (Questionable) &#160; B++ (Good) Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Company

&#160; BB (Marginal) &#160; Baa2 (Adequate) &#160; B++ (Good) Genworth Life Insurance Company of New York

&#160; BB (Marginal) &#160; Ba1 (Questionable) &#160; B++ (Good) The S&#38;P, Moody&#146;s, DBRS and A.M. Best ratings included are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities. 

&#160;

S&#38;P states that insurers rated &#147;A&#148; (Strong) or &#147;BB&#148; (Marginal) have strong or marginal financial security characteristics, respectively. The &#147;A&#148; and &#147;BB&#148; ranges are the third- and fifth-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&#38;P, which range from &#147;AAA&#148; to &#147;R.&#148; A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing within a major rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the &#147;AAA&#148; category or to ratings below the &#147;CCC&#148; category. Accordingly, the &#147;A+,&#148; &#147;BB+&#148; and &#147;BB&#148; ratings are the fifth-, eleventh- and twelfth-highest of S&#38;P&#146;s 21 ratings categories. 

Moody&#146;s states that insurance companies rated &#147;A&#148; (Good) offer good financial security, that insurance companies rated &#147;Baa&#148; (Adequate) offer adequate financial security and that insurance companies rated &#147;Ba&#148; (Questionable) offer questionable financial security. The &#147;A&#148; (Good), &#147;Baa&#148; (Adequate) and &#147;Ba&#148; (Questionable) ranges are the third-, fourth- and fifth-highest, respectively, of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody&#146;s, which range from &#147;Aaa&#148; to &#147;C.&#148; Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are not added to ratings in the &#147;Aaa&#148; category or to ratings below the &#147;Caa&#148; category. Accordingly, the &#147;A3,&#148; &#147;Baa2&#148; and &#147;Ba1&#148; ratings are the seventh-, ninth- and eleventh-highest, respectively, of Moody&#146;s 21 ratings categories. 

DBRS states that long-term obligations rated &#147;AA&#148; are of superior credit quality. The capacity for the payment of financial obligations is considered high and unlikely to be significantly vulnerable to future events. Credit quality differs from &#147;AAA&#148; only to a small degree. 

A.M. Best states that the &#147;B++&#148; (Good) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a good ability to meet their ongoing insurance obligations. The &#147;B++&#148; (Good) rating is the fifth-highest of 15 ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from &#147;A++&#148; to &#147;F.&#148; 

We also solicit a rating from Fitch for our Australian mortgage insurance subsidiary. Fitch states that &#147;A&#148; (Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. The &#147;A&#148; rating category is the third-highest of nine financial strength rating categories, which range from &#147;AAA&#148; to &#147;C.&#148; The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the &#147;AAA&#148; category or to ratings below the &#147;B&#148; category. Accordingly, the &#147;A+&#148; rating is the fifth-highest of Fitch&#146;s 21 ratings categories. 

We also solicit a rating from HR Ratings on a local scale for Genworth Seguros de Credito a la Vivienda S.A. de C.V., our Mexican mortgage insurance subsidiary, with a short-term rating of &#147;HR1&#148; and long-term rating of &#147;HR AA.&#148; For short-term ratings, HR Ratings states that &#147;HR1&#148; rated companies are viewed as exhibiting high capacity for timely payment of debt obligations in the short-term and maintain low credit risk. The &#147;HR1&#148; short-term rating category is the highest of six short-term rating categories, which range from &#147;HR1&#148; to &#147;HR D.&#148; For long-term ratings, HR Ratings states that &#147;HR AA&#148; rated companies are viewed as having high credit quality and offer high safety for timely payment of debt obligations and maintain low credit risk under adverse economic scenarios. The &#147;HR AA&#148; long-term rating is the second-highest of HR Rating&#146;s eight long-term rating categories, which range from &#147;HR AAA&#148; to &#147;HR D.&#148; 

Following our earnings announcement for the fourth quarter of 2015, which included the announcement of our decision to suspend sales of our traditional life insurance and fixed annuity products and a restructure plan to separate and potentially isolate our long-term care insurance business, rating agencies took a variety of adverse rating actions with respect to our principal life insurance subsidiaries. On February 9, 2016, S&#38;P announced, among other things, its downgrade of our principal life insurance subsidiaries to &#147;BB&#148; from &#147;BBB-.&#148; S&#38;P placed GMICO&#146;s &#147;BB+&#148; rating on credit-watch negative. On February 9, 2016, A.M. Best also announced, among other things, its downgrade of our principal life insurance subsidiaries to &#147;B++&#148; from &#147;A-.&#148; On February 5, 2016, Moody&#146;s announced, among other things, its downgrade of Genworth Life Insurance Company and Genworth Life Insurance Company of New York to &#147;Ba1&#148; from &#147;Baa1&#148; and Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Company to &#147;Baa2&#148; from &#147;Baa1.&#148; Moody&#146;s affirmed GMICO&#146;s &#147;Ba1&#148; rating with a stable outlook. 

&#160;

S&#38;P, Moody&#146;s, DBRS, A.M. Best, Fitch and HR Ratings review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis. We do not provide information to agencies issuing unsolicited ratings and we cannot ensure that any agencies that rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on an unsolicited basis will continue to do so. 

For information on adverse credit rating actions related to Genworth Holdings, see &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Recent adverse rating agency actions have resulted in a loss of business and adversely affected our results of operations, financial condition and business and future adverse rating actions could have a further and more significant adverse impact on us.&#148; 

Investments 

Organization 

Our investment department includes asset management, portfolio management, derivatives, risk management, operations, accounting and other functions. Under the direction of our Chief Investment Officer, it is responsible for managing the assets in our various portfolios, including establishing investment and derivatives policies and strategies, reviewing asset-liability management, performing asset allocation for our domestic subsidiaries and coordinating investment activities with our international subsidiaries. 

We use both internal and external asset managers to take advantage of expertise in particular asset classes or to leverage country-specific investing capabilities. We internally manage certain asset classes for our domestic insurance operations, including public government, municipal and corporate securities, structured securities, commercial mortgage loans, privately placed debt securities and derivatives. We utilize external asset managers for most of our international portfolios, as well as select asset classes. Management of investments for our international operations is overseen by the investment committees reporting to the boards of directors of the applicable non-U.S. legal entities in consultation with our Chief Investment Officer. The majority of the assets in our Canadian and Australian mortgage insurance businesses are managed by unaffiliated investment managers located in their respective countries. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately 9% and 15%, respectively, of our invested assets were held by our international businesses and were invested primarily in non-U.S.-denominated securities. 

We manage our assets to meet diversification, credit quality, yield and liquidity requirements of our policy and contract liabilities by investing primarily in fixed maturity securities, including government, municipal and corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. We also hold mortgage loans on commercial real estate and other invested assets, which include derivatives, trading securities, limited partnerships and short-term investments. Investments for our particular insurance company subsidiaries are required to comply with our risk management requirements, as well as applicable laws and insurance regulations. 

For a discussion of our investments, see &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Consolidated Balance Sheets.&#148; 

Our primary investment objective is to meet our obligations to policyholders and contractholders while increasing value to our stockholders by investing in a diversified, high quality portfolio, comprised primarily of income producing securities and other assets. Our investment strategy focuses on: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; managing interest rate risk, as appropriate, through monitoring asset durations relative to policyholder and contractholder obligations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; selecting assets based on fundamental, research-driven strategies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; emphasizing fixed-income, low-volatility assets while pursuing active strategies to enhance yield; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet unexpected financial obligations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; regularly evaluating our asset class mix and pursuing additional investment classes when prudent; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; continuously monitoring asset quality and market conditions that could affect our assets. We are exposed to two primary sources of investment risk: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; credit risk relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given issuer to make timely payments of principal and interest and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; interest rate risk relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. We manage credit risk by analyzing issuers, transaction structures and any associated collateral. We continually evaluate the probability of credit default and estimated loss in the event of such a default, which provides us with early notification of worsening credits. We also manage credit risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation practices. For commercial mortgage loans, we manage credit risk through property type, geographic region and product type diversification and asset allocation. 

We manage interest rate risk by monitoring the relationship between the duration of our assets and the duration of our liabilities, seeking to manage interest rate risk in both rising and falling interest rate environments, and utilizing various derivative strategies, where appropriate and available. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7A&#151;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.&#148; 

Fixed maturity securities 

Fixed maturity securities, which were primarily classified as available-for-sale, including tax-exempt bonds, consisted principally of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 78% and 80%, respectively, of total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to increase diversification and obtain higher yields than can ordinarily be obtained with comparable public market securities. Generally, private placements provide us with protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. However, our private placements are not as freely transferable as public securities because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws, the terms of the securities and the characteristics of the private market. 

&#160;

The following table presents our public, private and total fixed maturity securities by the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (&#147;NRSRO&#148;) designations and/or equivalent ratings, as well as the percentage, based upon fair value, that each designation comprises. Certain fixed maturity securities that are not rated by an NRSRO are shown based upon internally prepared credit evaluations. 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; December 31, &#160; (Amounts in millions) 

&#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; NRSRO designation 

&#160; Amortized cost &#160; &#160; Fair value &#160; &#160; % of total &#160; &#160; Amortized cost &#160; &#160; Fair value &#160; &#160; % of total &#160; Public fixed maturity securities 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; AAA

&#160; $ 13,513 &#160; &#160; $ 14,785 &#160; &#160; &#160; 34 % &#160; $ 13,916 &#160; &#160; $ 15,599 &#160; &#160; &#160; 34 % AA

&#160; &#160; 3,904 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,121 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,363 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,730 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10 &#160; A

&#160; &#160; 11,152 &#160; &#160; &#160; 12,155 &#160; &#160; &#160; 28 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11,917 &#160; &#160; &#160; 13,572 &#160; &#160; &#160; 30 &#160; BBB

&#160; &#160; 10,386 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10,720 &#160; &#160; &#160; 25 &#160; &#160; &#160; 9,485 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10,490 &#160; &#160; &#160; 23 &#160; BB

&#160; &#160; 1,240 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,200 &#160; &#160; &#160; 3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,303 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,361 &#160; &#160; &#160; 3 &#160; B

&#160; &#160; 72 &#160; &#160; &#160; 63 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; 76 &#160; &#160; &#160; 76 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; CCC and lower

&#160; &#160; 82 &#160; &#160; &#160; 92 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 &#160; &#160; &#160; 112 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total public fixed maturity securities

&#160; $ 40,349 &#160; &#160; $ 43,136 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; $ 41,160 &#160; &#160; $ 45,940 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Private fixed maturity securities 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; AAA

&#160; $ 1,479 &#160; &#160; $ 1,531 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10 % &#160; $ 1,501 &#160; &#160; $ 1,564 &#160; &#160; &#160; 10 % AA

&#160; &#160; 1,844 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,899 &#160; &#160; &#160; 13 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,915 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,995 &#160; &#160; &#160; 13 &#160; A

&#160; &#160; 4,578 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,731 &#160; &#160; &#160; 31 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,266 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,538 &#160; &#160; &#160; 30 &#160; BBB

&#160; &#160; 5,951 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,003 &#160; &#160; &#160; 40 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5,840 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,074 &#160; &#160; &#160; 40 &#160; BB

&#160; &#160; 828 &#160; &#160; &#160; 777 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5 &#160; &#160; &#160; 792 &#160; &#160; &#160; 792 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5 &#160; B

&#160; &#160; 118 &#160; &#160; &#160; 104 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1 &#160; &#160; &#160; 103 &#160; &#160; &#160; 95 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1 &#160; CCC and lower

&#160; &#160; 14 &#160; &#160; &#160; 16 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; 79 &#160; &#160; &#160; 79 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total private fixed maturity securities

&#160; $ 14,812 &#160; &#160; $ 15,061 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; $ 14,496 &#160; &#160; $ 15,137 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total fixed maturity securities 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; AAA

&#160; $ 14,992 &#160; &#160; $ 16,316 &#160; &#160; &#160; 28 % &#160; $ 15,417 &#160; &#160; $ 17,163 &#160; &#160; &#160; 28 % AA

&#160; &#160; 5,748 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,020 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,278 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,725 &#160; &#160; &#160; 11 &#160; A

&#160; &#160; 15,730 &#160; &#160; &#160; 16,886 &#160; &#160; &#160; 29 &#160; &#160; &#160; 16,183 &#160; &#160; &#160; 18,110 &#160; &#160; &#160; 30 &#160; BBB

&#160; &#160; 16,337 &#160; &#160; &#160; 16,723 &#160; &#160; &#160; 29 &#160; &#160; &#160; 15,325 &#160; &#160; &#160; 16,564 &#160; &#160; &#160; 27 &#160; BB

&#160; &#160; 2,068 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,977 &#160; &#160; &#160; 3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2,095 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2,153 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4 &#160; B

&#160; &#160; 190 &#160; &#160; &#160; 167 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; 179 &#160; &#160; &#160; 171 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; CCC and lower

&#160; &#160; 96 &#160; &#160; &#160; 108 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; 179 &#160; &#160; &#160; 191 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total fixed maturity securities

&#160; $ 55,161 &#160; &#160; $ 58,197 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; $ 55,656 &#160; &#160; $ 61,077 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Based upon fair value, public fixed maturity securities represented 74% and 75%, respectively, of total fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. Private fixed maturity securities represented 26% and 25%, respectively, of total fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

We diversify our corporate securities by industry and issuer. As of December 31, 2015, our combined holdings in the 10 corporate issuers to which we had the greatest exposure were $2.0 billion, which was approximately 3% of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. The exposure to the largest single corporate issuer held as of December 31, 2015 was $283 million, which was less than 1% of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information on diversification by sector. 

We do not have material unhedged exposure to foreign currency risk in our invested assets of our U.S. operations. In our international insurance operations, both our assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies. 

&#160;

Further analysis related to our investments portfolio as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Investment and Derivative Instruments.&#148; 

Commercial mortgage loans and other invested assets 

Our mortgage loans are collateralized by commercial properties, including multi-family residential buildings. Commercial mortgage loans are primarily stated at principal amounts outstanding, net of deferred expenses and allowance for loan loss. We diversify our commercial mortgage loans by both property type and geographic region. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 8&#151;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for additional information on distribution across property type and geographic region for commercial mortgage loans, as well as information on our interest in equity securities and other invested assets. 

Selected financial information regarding our other invested assets and derivative instruments as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is included under &#147;Part II&#151;Item 7&#151;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Investment and Derivative Instruments.&#148; 

Regulation 

Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

General 

Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws and regulations (&#147;Insurance Laws&#148;) regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S. insurers are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non-U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Our insurance products and businesses also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws, and the tax laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions. Our securities operations, including our insurance products that are regulated as securities, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, also are subject to U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. securities laws and regulations. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#147;FINRA&#148;), state securities authorities and similar non-U.S. authorities regulate and supervise these products. 

The primary purpose of the Insurance Laws regulating our insurance businesses and their equivalents in the other countries in which we operate, and the securities laws affecting our variable annuity products, variable life insurance products, registered FABNs and our broker/dealer, is to protect our policyholders, contractholders and clients, not our stockholders. These laws and regulations are regularly re-examined and any changes to these laws or new laws may be more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. 

Insurance and securities regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general or their non-U.S. equivalents) periodically make inquiries regarding compliance with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. 

Our distributors and institutional customers also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations may affect our business relationships with them and their decision to distribute or purchase our subsidiaries&#146; products. 

In addition, the Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers&#146; domiciliary jurisdictions and the equivalent laws in Australia, Canada and certain other jurisdictions in which we operate require that a person obtain the approval of the applicable insurance regulator prior to acquiring control, and in some cases prior to divesting its control, of an 

&#160;

insurer. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent an investment in or a change of control involving us, or one or more of our regulated subsidiaries, including transactions that our management and some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. 

U.S. Insurance Regulation 

Our U.S. insurers are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but Insurance Laws generally govern the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentrations of permissible investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, Insurance Laws usually require the licensing of insurers and agents, and the approval of policy forms, related materials and the rates for certain lines of insurance. 

The Insurance Laws applicable to us or our U.S. insurers are described below. Our U.S. mortgage insurers are also subject to additional Insurance Laws applicable specifically to mortgage insurers discussed below under &#147;&#151;Mortgage Insurance.&#148; 

Insurance holding company regulation 

All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers conduct business have enacted legislation requiring each U.S. insurer (except captive insurers) in a holding company system to register with the insurance regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction and furnish that regulatory authority various information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These Insurance Laws regulate transactions between insurers and their affiliates, sometimes mandating prior notice to the regulator and/or regulatory approval. Generally, these Insurance Laws require that all transactions between an insurer and an affiliate be fair and reasonable, and that the insurer&#146;s statutory surplus following such transaction be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. 

As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, we depend on dividends from our respective subsidiaries, permitted payments under tax sharing and expense reimbursement arrangements with our subsidiaries and other distributions as the principal source of cash to meet our obligations, including the payment of operating expenses, amounts we owe to GE under the Tax Matters Agreement and to our subsidiaries for tax sharing agreements and interest on, and repayment of principal of, any debt obligations, among other things. Our U.S. insurers&#146; payment of dividends or other distributions is regulated by the Insurance Laws of their respective domiciliary states, and insurers may not pay an &#147;extraordinary&#148; dividend or distribution, or pay a dividend except out of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval. In general, an &#147;extraordinary&#148; dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 10% of the insurer&#146;s statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the statutory net gain from the insurer&#146;s operations (if a life insurer) or the statutory net income (if not a life insurer) during the prior calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurers (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employment or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. 

The Insurance Laws require that a person obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of an insurer&#146;s domiciliary jurisdiction prior to acquiring control of such insurer. Control of an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies 

&#160;

representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer or its ultimate parent entity. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, the insurance commissioner generally considers factors such as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant&#146;s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer&#146;s plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. Most states now require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates and the target insurer and its affiliates have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. These provisions may not require acquisition approval but can lead to imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. 

The Insurance Laws require that an insurance holding company system&#146;s ultimate controlling person submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an &#147;enterprise risk report&#148; that identifies activities, circumstances or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. The Insurance Laws also require that a controlling person of an insurer submit prior notice to the insurer&#146;s domiciliary insurance regulator of a divestiture of control. Finally, most states have adopted insurance regulations setting forth detailed requirements for cost sharing and management agreements between an insurer and its affiliates. 

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the &#147;NAIC&#148;) adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (the &#147;ORSA Model Act&#148;). The ORSA Model Act requires an insurance holding company system&#146;s Chief Risk Officer to submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (&#147;ORSA&#148;) Summary Report. The ORSA is a confidential internal assessment appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of an insurer, conducted by that insurer of the material and relevant risks identified by the insurer associated with an insurer&#146;s current business plan and the sufficiency of capital resources to support those risks. Most states have adopted the ORSA Model Act. Under ORSA, we are required to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; regularly, no less than annually, conduct an ORSA to assess the adequacy of our risk management framework, and current and estimated projected future solvency position; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; internally document the process and results of the assessment; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; provide a confidential high-level ORSA Summary Report annually to the lead state commissioner if the insurer is a member of an insurance group and, upon request, by the domiciliary state regulator. The NAIC has adopted new model laws and regulations as part of its Solvency Modernization Initiative. In November 2014, the NAIC adopted the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act and the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Regulation (the &#147;Corporate Governance Model Act and Regulation&#148;), which would require insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. In December 2014, the NAIC adopted amendments of the insurance holding company model act and regulations (the &#147;2014 NAIC Amendments&#148;), which would authorize U.S. regulators to, among other items, lead or participate in the group-wide supervision of certain international insurance groups. Both the Corporate Governance Model Act and Regulation and the 2014 NAIC Amendments must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. To date, only a few states have adopted the Corporate Governance Model Act and Regulation and the 2014 NAIC Amendments. 

During 2014, the NAIC also approved a new regulatory framework applicable to the use of captive insurers in connection with Regulation XXX and Regulation AXXX transactions. Among other things, the framework calls for more disclosure of an insurer&#146;s use of captives in its statutory financial statements, and narrows the types of assets permitted to back statutory reserves that are required to support the insurer&#146;s future obligations. The NAIC has implemented the framework through a new actuarial guideline (&#147;AG 48&#148;), which requires the actuary of the ceding insurer that opines on the insurer&#146;s reserves to issue a qualified opinion if the framework is 

&#160;

not followed. The requirements of AG 48 became effective as of January 1, 2015 in all states, without any further action necessary by state legislatures or insurance regulators to implement it. The NAIC is developing a model regulation to be adopted by the states that is generally expected to contain the same substantive provisions as the provisions of the adopted AG 48. 

During 2015, the NAIC adopted a roadmap for cybersecurity consumer protections that is anticipated to be the starting point for development of a new NAIC model law governing cybersecurity consumer protections. 

We cannot predict the future impact, if any, that the 2014 NAIC Amendments, compliance with the ORSA Model Act, the requirements of AG 48 and the XXX/AXXX model regulation, the Corporate Governance Model Act and Regulation and the NAIC cybersecurity consumer protection initiative will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Periodic reporting 

Our U.S. insurers must file reports, including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. 

Policy forms 

Our U.S. insurers&#146; policy forms are subject to regulation in every U.S. jurisdiction in which they transact insurance business. In most U.S. jurisdictions, policy forms must be filed prior to their use, and in some U.S. jurisdictions, forms must be approved by insurance regulatory authorities prior to use. 

Our U.S. mortgage insurance business began issuing all of its coverage under a new master policy effective October 1, 2014 (the &#147;Revised Master Policy&#148;). For loans insured prior to October 1, 2014, coverage continues to be provided pursuant to the terms and conditions of the master policy in effect at the time of coverage inception for relevant loans (the &#147;Existing Master Policies&#148;). We adopted provisions under the Revised Master Policy that are substantially similar to those adopted by each private mortgage insurer in the industry as mandated by the GSEs, under the oversight of their conservator, FHFA. These mandatory provisions update and clarify the responsibilities of insurers, originators and servicers and enhance the insurance protection provided to the GSEs. Among the changes contained in the Revised Master Policy are new provisions which limit our rights to rescind coverage (&#147;Rescission Limitations&#148;), as compared to the Existing Master Policies. The Rescission Limitations restrict: (i) our right to rescind coverage for underwriting non-compliance or appraisal deficiencies in cases where the borrower makes a sufficient number of timely loan payments or where we perform additional verification of credit or collateral files; and (ii) our right to investigate loan files other than for servicing matters and claims administration. The Rescission Limitations do not apply to misrepresentation by the lender or others involved in the origination of an insured loan or for specified instances involving patterns of misrepresentation. 

Market conduct regulation 

The Insurance Laws of U.S. jurisdictions govern the marketplace activities of insurers, affecting the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, and complaint and claims handling, and these provisions are generally enforced through periodic market conduct examinations. 

Statutory examinations 

Insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of domestic insurers. These examinations generally are conducted in cooperation with insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. 

&#160;

Guaranty associations and similar arrangements 

Most jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers are licensed require those insurers to participate in guaranty associations which pay contractual benefits owed under the policies of impaired or insolvent insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Aggregate assessments levied against our U.S. insurers were not material to our consolidated financial statements. 

Policy and contract reserve sufficiency analysis 

The Insurance Laws of their domiciliary jurisdictions require our U.S. life insurers to conduct annual analyses of the sufficiency of their life and health insurance and annuity reserves. Other jurisdictions where insurers are licensed may have certain reserve requirements that differ from those of their domiciliary jurisdictions. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion stating that the aggregate statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the insurer&#146;s associated contractual obligations and related expenses. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must establish additional reserves by transferring funds from surplus. Our U.S. life insurers submit these opinions annually to their insurance regulatory authorities. Different reserve requirements exist for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries. See &#147;&#151;Mortgage Insurance Regulation&#151;State regulation&#151;Reserves.&#148; 

Surplus and capital requirements 

Insurance regulators have the discretionary authority, in connection with maintaining the licensing of our U.S. insurers, to limit or restrict insurers from issuing new policies, or policies having a dollar value over certain thresholds, if, in the regulators&#146; judgment, the insurer is not maintaining a sufficient amount of surplus or is in a hazardous financial condition. We seek to maintain new business and capital management strategies to support meeting related regulatory requirements. 

Risk-based capital 

The NAIC has established RBC standards for U.S. life insurers, as well as a risk-based capital model act (&#147;RBC Model Act&#148;). All 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted the RBC Model Act or a substantially similar law or regulation. The RBC Model Act requires that life insurers annually submit a report to state regulators regarding their RBC based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate and market risk, and business risk. The capital requirement for each is generally determined by applying factors which vary based upon the degree of risk to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula is an early warning tool to identify possible weakly capitalized companies for purposes of initiating further regulatory action. 

If an insurer&#146;s RBC fell below specified levels, it would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level, ranging from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. As of December 31, 2015, the RBC of each of our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries exceeded the level of RBC that would require any of them to take or become subject to any corrective action. The consolidated RBC ratio of our U.S. domiciled life insurance subsidiaries was approximately 393% and 435% of the company action level as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The RBC ratio for the year ended December 31, 2015 was impacted by $198 million of additional statutory reserves primarily reflecting assumption updates in our universal and term universal life insurance products in the fourth quarter of 2015. In addition, based on our annual statutory cash flow testing of our long-term care insurance business, our New York insurance subsidiary recorded $89 million of additional statutory reserves in the fourth quarter of 2015. 

&#160;

Group capital 

The NAIC and international insurance regulators, including the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (&#147;IAIS&#148;), are working to develop group capital standards. The NAIC is developing a group capital measure, which is expected to be based on aggregation of existing regulatory capital calculations for all entities within the insurance holding company system (such as risk-based capital for insurance companies). It is unclear how the development of group capital measures by the NAIC will interact with existing capital requirements for insurance companies in the United States and with international capital standards. It is possible that we may be required to hold additional capital as a result of these developments. 

Statutory accounting principles 

U.S. insurance regulators developed statutory accounting principles (&#147;SAP&#148;) as a basis of accounting used to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurers. Since insurance regulators are primarily concerned with ensuring an insurer&#146;s ability to pay its current and future obligations to policyholders, statutory accounting conservatively values the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurer&#146;s domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and are generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. 

Due to differences in methodology between SAP and U.S. GAAP, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are materially different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. 

Regulation of investments 

Each of our U.S. insurers is subject to Insurance Laws that require diversification of its investment portfolio and which limit the proportion of investments in different asset categories. Assets invested contrary to such regulatory limitations must be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, regulations require divestiture of such non-complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurers comply with these Insurance Laws. 

Federal regulation of insurance products 

Most of our variable annuity products, some of our fixed guaranteed products, and all of our variable life insurance products, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program are &#147;securities&#148; within the meaning of federal and state securities laws, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and are subject to regulation by the SEC. See &#147;&#151;Other Laws and Regulations&#151;Securities regulation.&#148; These products may also be indirectly regulated by FINRA as a result of FINRA&#146;s regulation of broker/dealers and may be regulated by state securities authorities. Federal and state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under &#147;&#151;Other Laws and Regulations&#151;Securities regulation&#148; affects investment advice and sales and related activities with respect to these products. U.S. mortgage insurance products and insurers are also subject to federal regulation discussed below under &#147;&#151;Mortgage Insurance.&#148; In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including taxation, financial services regulation, and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can also significantly affect the insurance industry. 

Dodd-Frank Act and other federal initiatives 

Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often, and increasingly, have an impact on the business in a variety of ways, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts, simplification bills affecting tax-advantaged or tax-exempt savings and retirement vehicles, and proposals to modify the estate tax. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed in recent years. 

&#160;

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) made extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, many of which have taken effect. 

Among other provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act established a new framework of regulation of the over-the-counter (&#147;OTC&#148;) derivatives markets which requires, among other things, trade reporting of OTC derivatives transactions, formalized documentation requirements, execution of designated transactions on a swap execution facility (&#147;SEF&#148;) or designated contracts market (&#147;DCM&#148;), clearing of designated transactions through designated clearing organizations (&#147;DCOs&#148;) and exchange of initial and variation margin for non-cleared swap transactions. We currently are subject to reporting with respect to all derivatives transactions we enter into and must execute certain interest rate and other transactions on a SEF or DCM, which transactions we also must clear through a DCO. The clearing requirements, among other things, require us to post with a futures commission merchant highly liquid securities or cash as initial margin and cash to meet variation margin requirements for most interest rate derivatives we trade. Over time, we will experience additional collateral requirements for derivative transactions that are not required to be cleared. As the new marketplace continues to evolve, we may have to alter or limit the way we use derivatives in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to similar trade reporting, documentation, central trading and clearing and OTC margining requirements when we transact with foreign derivatives counterparties. Dodd-Frank and foreign derivatives requirements expose us to operational, compliance, execution and other risks, including central counterparty insolvency risk. 

In the case of our U.S. mortgage insurance business, the Dodd-Frank Act requires lenders to retain some of the risk associated with mortgage loans that they sell or securitize, unless the mortgage loans are &#147;Qualified Residential Mortgages&#148; or unless the securitization or security is partially or fully exempted. Under regulations promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, loans which meet the definition of &#147;Qualified Mortgages&#148; are also eligible as Qualified Residential Mortgages. The legislation and regulations also prohibit a creditor from making a residential mortgage loan unless the creditor makes a reasonable and good faith determination that, at the time the loan is consummated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which regulates certain aspects of the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services but not the business of insurance. In January 2014, CFPB rules implementing the ability-to-repay and Qualified Mortgage standards contained in the Dodd-Frank Act went into effect. The rules set requirements for how mortgage lenders can demonstrate that they have effectively considered the consumer&#146;s ability to repay a mortgage loan, establish when a mortgage may be classified as a Qualified Mortgage and determine when a lender is eligible for a safe harbor as a presumption that the lender has complied with the ability-to-repay requirements. We expect the rules to have a positive impact on the credit quality of mortgage loans which may benefit our delinquency rates but the rule may have the negative impact of reducing the number of loans originated and therefore available for the mortgage insurance market. The CFPB may issue additional rules or regulations, may adopt interpretations of existing laws which differ from past interpretations and may assert jurisdiction over regulatory or enforcement matters in lieu of or in addition to the existing jurisdiction of other federal or state agencies, all of which may affect our U.S. mortgage insurance business. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council (&#147;FSOC&#148;), which is authorized to subject non-bank financial companies, which may include insurance companies, deemed systemically significant to stricter prudential standards and other requirements and to subject such companies to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal Bankruptcy Code, administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We have not currently been designated as systemically significant by FSOC but this determination could change in the future. FSOC&#146;s potential recommendation of measures to address systemic financial risk could affect our insurance operations as could a future determination that we or our counterparties are systemically significant, which could impose significant burdens on us, impact the way we conduct our business, increase compliance costs, duplicate state regulation and could result in a competitive disadvantage. 

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office (&#147;FIO&#148;) within the Department of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this 

&#160;

office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. In December 2013, FIO issued a report on alternatives to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states, in particular recommending federal standards and oversight regulations for mortgage insurers. If adopted, we cannot predict what effect, if any, such standards and regulations may have on our U.S. mortgage insurance business. Further, in December 2014, FIO delivered its report to Congress describing the global reinsurance market and its critical role in supporting the U.S. insurance system. 

A Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group was formed in 2012 under President Obama&#146;s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to investigate misconduct contributing to the financial crisis through the pooling and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities. The principal focus of this Working Group has been directed at enforcement actions against issuers and servicers of mortgage-backed securities. As the activities of this Working Group are ongoing, we cannot predict what impact, if any, this Working Group may have on the mortgage insurance industry in general and our business in particular. 

We cannot predict the requirements of all of the regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act, the effect such legislation or regulations will have on financial markets generally, or on our businesses specifically, the additional costs associated with compliance with such regulations or legislation, or any changes to our operations that may be necessary to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations thereunder, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also cannot predict whether other federal initiatives will be adopted or what impact, if any, such initiatives, if adopted as laws, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Changes in tax laws 

In December 2015, President Obama signed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (&#147;2015 Path Act&#148;). Included in the 2015 Path Act was a permanent extension of the &#147;active financing&#148; provision for foreign insurance subsidiaries, under which income from a foreign subsidiary&#146;s active conduct of an insurance business is eligible for deferral of tax. The 2015 Path Act provided two year retroactive extensions through December 31, 2016 of certain tax benefits to individuals and businesses. It contained a two-year extension allowing certain taxpayers whose mortgage debt that may be forgiven in 2015 and 2016 to exclude the debt forgiveness from taxable income. Also included in the 2015 Path Act was a provision to continue to allow certain mortgage insurance premiums as deductible interest for 2015 and 2016. It is unclear at this time whether these provisions will be extended past 2016 in future legislation. However, we believe that the impact on our U.S. mortgage insurance products will be immaterial regardless of whether or not the provisions are further extended. 

Bermuda Insurance Regulation 

The Bermuda Monetary Authority (the &#147;BMA&#148;) regulates all financial institutions operating in or from Bermuda, including our Bermudian captive insurance companies. Specific regulation varies in Bermuda depending on whether the insurance company has been granted a long-term business license or a general business license and by the class under which each company falls within such licenses. Regardless of license or class, all companies are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus levels and minimum solvency standards and are subject to auditing and reporting requirements. 

Under Bermuda&#146;s Insurance Act 1978, in addition to the ability to pay dividends from retained earnings subject to certain procedures and compliance with applicable financial margins, Bermuda insurance companies may distribute up to 15% of their total paid-in or contributed capital without the prior approval of the BMA. Insurance companies may apply to the BMA to make distributions in excess of such level. 

In recent years, the BMA has adopted new solvency regulations and certain other regulations to enhance its governance and disclosure requirements for insurance companies in order for Bermuda to achieve consistency 

&#160;

with changes being developed by other leading insurance regulators worldwide, and in so doing achieve equivalence with the Solvency II directive. Both of our Bermudian captive insurance companies met or exceeded the minimum solvency requirements that were in effect in Bermuda as of December 31, 2015. New minimum solvency requirements, including transitional measures that will be phased in over 16 years, took effect in Bermuda on January 1, 2016 (the &#147;Solvency II Standards&#148;). These new requirements are intended to achieve compliance with the Solvency II directive. On November 26, 2015, via delegated act, the European Commission granted Bermuda full equivalence in all areas of Solvency II for an indefinite period of time. The European Commission&#146;s act is being reviewed by the European Parliament and Council over the 90 day period following the grant of full equivalence. Once the delegated act comes into force, the equivalence decision will be applied retroactively to January 1, 2016. Under the Solvency II Standards, the calculation of the amount of long-dated liabilities, such as long-term care insurance, produces much higher amounts than under the prior standards. BLAIC, one of our Bermuda-domiciled captive reinsurance subsidiaries, reinsures a portion of our long-term care insurance business, as well as blocks of our life insurance business. One of our strategic priorities is to repatriate all of the business in BLAIC. The timing of the repatriation is expected to occur in 2016 and is subject to various regulatory approvals. 

Mortgage Insurance Regulation 

State regulation 

General 

Mortgage insurers generally are limited by Insurance Laws to directly writing only mortgage insurance business to the exclusion of other types of insurance. Mortgage insurers are not subject to the NAIC&#146;s RBC requirements but certain states and other regulators impose another form of capital requirement on mortgage insurers requiring maintenance of a risk-to-capital ratio not to exceed 25:1. GMICO, our primary U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, had a risk-to-capital ratio of 16.4:1 and 14.3:1 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. If one of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries that is writing business in a particular state fails to maintain that state&#146;s required minimum capital level, we would generally be required to stop writing new business immediately in the state until the insurer re-establishes the required regulatory level of capital or receives a waiver of such requirement from the state&#146;s insurance regulator or, alternatively, until we establish an alternative source of underwriting capacity such as an affiliated insurer which meets state regulatory capital-related requirements and has been approved as an eligible mortgage guaranty insurer by the GSEs. 

The North Carolina Department of Insurance&#146;s (&#147;NCDOI&#148;) current regulatory framework by which GMICO&#146;s risk-to-capital ratio is calculated differs from the capital requirements of the GSEs as discussed under &#147;&#151;Other U.S. regulation.&#148; 

During 2012, the NAIC established a Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Working Group (the &#147;MGIWG&#148;) to determine and make recommendations to the NAIC&#146;s Financial Condition Committee as to what, if any, changes to make to the solvency and other regulations relating to mortgage guaranty insurers. During 2014 and 2015, the MGIWG published revised drafts of the previously proposed amendments of the NAIC&#146;s Mortgage Guaranty Insurers Model Act (the &#147;MGI Model&#148;) and solicited comments on these revised proposed amendments. The proposed amendments of the MGI Model relate to, among other things: (i) capital and reserve standards, including increased minimum capital and surplus requirements, mortgage guaranty-specific RBC standards, dividend restrictions and contingency and premium deficiency reserves; (ii) limitations on the geographic concentration of mortgage guaranty risk, including state-based limitations; (iii) restrictions on mortgage insurers&#146; investments in notes secured by mortgages; (iv) prudent underwriting standards and formal underwriting guidelines to be approved by the insurer&#146;s board; (v) the establishment of formal, internal &#147;Mortgage Guaranty Quality Control Programs&#148; with respect to in-force business; (vi) prohibitions on reinsurance with bank captive reinsurers; and (vii) incorporation of an NAIC &#147;Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Standards Manual.&#148; At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this process, the effect changes, if any, will have on the mortgage guaranty insurance market generally, or on our businesses specifically, the additional costs associated with compliance with any such changes, or any changes to our operations that may be necessary to comply, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also 

&#160;

cannot predict whether other regulatory initiatives will be adopted or what impact, if any, such initiatives, if adopted as laws, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Reserves 

Insurance Laws require our U.S. mortgage insurers to establish a special statutory contingency reserve in their statutory financial statements to provide for losses in the event of significant economic declines. Annual additions to the statutory contingency reserve must equal 50% of net earned premiums as defined by Insurance Laws. These contingency reserves generally are held until the earlier of (i) the time that loss ratios exceed 35% or (ii) 10 years, although regulators have granted discretionary releases from time to time. However, approval by the NCDOI is required for contingency reserve releases when loss ratios exceed 35%. This reserve reduces the policyholder surplus of our U.S. mortgage insurers, and therefore, their ability to pay dividends to us. The statutory contingency reserve for our U.S. mortgage insurers was approximately $500 million as of December 31, 2015. 

Federal regulation 

In addition to federal laws directly applicable to mortgage insurers, the laws and regulations applicable to mortgage originators and lenders, purchasers of mortgage loans such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA indirectly affect mortgage insurers. For example, changes in federal housing legislation and other laws and regulations that affect the demand for private mortgage insurance may have a material effect on private mortgage insurers. Legislation or regulation that increases the number of people eligible for FHA or VA mortgages could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA or VA. 

The Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (the &#147;Homeowners Protection Act&#148;) provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrower&#146;s request, of the borrower&#146;s obligation to pay for private mortgage insurance upon satisfaction of certain conditions, although mortgage servicers may continue to keep the coverage in place at their expense. The Homeowners Protection Act applies to owner-occupied residential mortgage loans regardless of lien priority and to borrower-paid mortgage insurance closed after July 29, 1999. FHA loans are not covered by the Homeowners Protection Act. Under the Homeowners Protection Act, automatic termination of the borrower&#146;s obligation to pay for mortgage insurance would generally occur once the loan-to-value ratio reaches 78%. A borrower generally may request cancellation of mortgage insurance once the actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the home&#146;s original value. For borrower-initiated cancellation of mortgage insurance, the borrower must have a &#147;good payment history&#148; as defined by the Homeowners Protection Act. 

The Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act of 1974 (&#147;RESPA&#148;) applies to most residential mortgages insured by private mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance has been considered in some cases to be a &#147;settlement service&#148; for purposes of loans subject to RESPA. Subject to limited exceptions, RESPA precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. Although many states prohibit mortgage insurers from giving rebates, RESPA has been interpreted to cover many non-fee services as well. Mortgage insurers and their customers are subject to the possible sanctions of this law, which may be enforced by the CFPB, state insurance departments, state attorneys general and other enforcement authorities. 

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (&#147;ECOA&#148;) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (&#147;FCRA&#148;) also affect the business of mortgage insurance in various ways. ECOA, for example, prohibits discrimination against certain protected classes in credit transactions. FCRA governs the access and use of consumer credit information in credit transactions and requires notices to consumers in certain circumstances. 

&#160;

Most originators of mortgage loans are required to collect and report data relating to a mortgage loan applicant&#146;s race, nationality, gender, marital status and census tract to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Administration or the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (&#147;HMDA&#148;). The purpose of HMDA is to detect possible impermissible discrimination in home lending and, through disclosure, to discourage such discrimination. Mortgage insurers are not required to report HMDA data although, under the laws of several states, mortgage insurers currently are prohibited from discriminating on the basis of certain classifications. In the past, mortgage insurers voluntarily submitted to the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council data on loans submitted for insurance as required for most mortgage lenders under HMDA. However, recently our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary no longer voluntarily reports HMDA data, which is consistent with industry practice. 

Other U.S. regulation 

Effective December 31, 2015, each GSE adopted revised PMIERs which set forth operational and financial requirements that mortgage insurers must meet in order to remain eligible. By March 1, 2016, an approved insurer must certify as to its compliance with PMIERs as of December 31, 2015. If an approved insurer meets all of PMIERs except the financial requirements, then it may submit by March 31, 2016 a transition plan that each GSE in its sole and absolute discretion may approve or disapprove. If approved, the GSEs will permit a transition period deemed by the GSEs to be reasonably sufficient for the approved insurer to meet the financial requirements, which in any case may not extend beyond June 30, 2017. If an approved insurer is unable to certify as to its compliance with the non-financial requirements of PMIERs, then by March 1, 2016, it may submit a corrective action plan detailing how it expects to achieve compliance. An approved insurer will retain its ability to write insurance on loans eligible for delivery to the GSEs from December 31, 2015 until a transition plan or corrective action plan, as the case may be, has been specifically approved or disapproved, subject to the approved insurer continuing to meet all other PMIERs requirements. 

The financial requirements of PMIERs mandate that a mortgage insurer&#146;s &#147;Available Assets&#148; (generally only the most liquid assets of an insurer) must meet or exceed &#147;Minimum Required Assets&#148; (which are based on an insurer&#146;s risk in-force and are calculated from tables of factors with several risk dimensions and are subject to a floor amount). The operational PMIERs requirements include standards that govern the relationship between the GSEs and approved insurers and are designed to ensure that approved insurers operate under uniform guidelines, such as claim processing timelines. They include quality control requirements that are designed to ensure that approved insurers have a strong internal risk management infrastructure that emphasizes continuous process improvement and senior management oversight. Examples of the quality control requirements are robust documentation of procedures and independence of the quality control function. If an approved insurer is deemed by the GSEs to be out of compliance with PMIERs, the GSEs may take actions such as: (i) communication of a written warning to the approved insurer that expresses concern and suggests possible remediation; (ii) issuance of a written warning to an approved insurer that it has violated, is violating, or is about to violate any of the provisions of PMIERs, and that suspension or termination may result unless corrective action is taken within a specified time period; or (iii) imposition of additional terms and conditions of eligibility, including the remediation options contained in PMIERs. 

As of the December 31, 2015 effective date of PMIERs, our U.S mortgage insurance business met the PMIERs operational and financial requirements, based in part on: (i) our entry during 2015 into three separate excess of loss reinsurance transactions with three panels of reinsurers covering our 2009 through 2015 book years that we believe, based on indications from the GSEs, provide up to approximately $535 million of PMIERs credit; (ii) the intercompany sale during 2015 by our U.S. mortgage insurance business of its ownership interest in affiliated preferred securities for approximately $200 million; and (iii) an internal restructuring of legal entities during 2015. 

In their letters of approval for the third reinsurance transaction entered into during 2015 by our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, each GSE requires our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary to maintain a 

&#160;

maximum statutory risk to capital ratio of 18:1 or they reserve the right to reevaluate the amount of PMIERs credit indicated in their approval letters and, in the case of Fannie Mae, this reevaluation expressly may include the first two of our 2015 reinsurance transactions as well. Fannie Mae also reserved these rights in the event it finds that our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, for insurance written after December 31, 2015, did not retain at least 40% of the gross &#147;Required Assets&#148; under PMIERs. Fannie Mae&#146;s approval of the third reinsurance transaction of 2015 will be automatically withdrawn if the NCDOI fails to approve (or fails to non-disapprove) the transaction. Freddie Mac has also imposed additional requirements on our option to commute these reinsurance agreements. Both GSEs reserved the right to periodically review the reinsurance transaction for treatment under PMIERs. 

Canada regulation 

The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (&#147;OSFI&#148;) provides oversight to all federally incorporated financial institutions, including our Canadian mortgage insurance companies, which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Genworth Canada. OSFI also has oversight responsibility for CMHC, our main competitor. OSFI does not have enforcement powers over market conduct issues in the insurance industry, which are a provincial responsibility. The Bank Act, Insurance Companies Act and Trust and Loan Companies Act prohibit Canadian banks, trust companies and insurers from extending mortgage loans where the loan value exceeds 80% of the property&#146;s value, unless mortgage insurance is obtained in connection with the loan. As a result, all mortgages issued by these financial institutions with a loan-to-value ratio exceeding 80% must be insured by a qualified insurer, which includes CMHC. Legislation prohibits such financial institutions from charging borrowers amounts for mortgage insurance that exceed the lender&#146;s actual costs and impose disclosure obligations in respect of mortgage insurance. 

As discussed in &#147;&#151;Business&#151;Canada Mortgage Insurance&#151;Government guarantee eligibility,&#148; government guaranteed mortgage insurers, including our Canadian mortgage insurance companies, are subject to PRMHIA regulation, which restricts our direct insurance activities to insuring mortgages that meet the government&#146;s mortgage insurance eligibility. Reinsurance business is not subject to these restrictions. We are required to hold certain regulatory capital under PRMHIA and the Insurance Companies Act (Canada) to support our outstanding mortgage insurance in-force. 

Under PRMHIA, the regulations establish the following criteria a high loan-to-value mortgage has to meet in order to be insured: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a maximum mortgage amortization of 25 years &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; insurance of mortgages limited to loans with a loan-to-value of 95% or less &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; insurance of refinanced mortgage limited to loans with a loan-to-value of 80% or less &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; insurance of mortgages for investment properties limited to 80% or less &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capping the maximum gross debt service ratios at 39% and total debt service ratios at 44% &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capping home purchase price to less than $1 million &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; setting a minimum credit score of 600 On December 11, 2015, the Canadian government announced a change to the eligibility rules for new government backed insured mortgages on properties priced above CAD$500,000. Effective February 15, 2016, the minimum down payment for new insured mortgages will be increased from 5% to 10% for the portion of home prices above CAD$500,000. 

Beginning in 2014, as part of requirements from our regulator in Canada, we developed and implemented our own risk and solvency assessment (&#147;Canada ORSA&#148;). Our Canada ORSA is a process that links our risk management framework to our business strategy and decision-making framework. Our Canada ORSA provides a 

&#160;

baseline assessment of identified risks and the supporting risk management activities. Additionally, our Canada ORSA documents our risk exposure relative to our risk appetite and calculates the capital required to support those risks under certain pre-defined stress events. The implementation of our Canada ORSA did not result in a significant change to our practices of evaluating and managing risks. 

On November 6, 2014, OSFI published the final B-21 Residential Mortgage Insurance Underwriting Practices and Procedures Guideline (the &#147;B-21 Guideline&#148;). In the B-21 Guideline, OSFI sets out principles that promote and support sound residential mortgage insurance underwriting. These six principles focus on three main themes: (i) governance, development of business objectives and strategy, and oversight; (ii) interaction with lenders as part of the underwriting process; and (iii) internal underwriting operations and risk management. The B-21 Guideline also enhances disclosure requirements, which will support greater transparency, clarity and public confidence in mortgage insurers&#146; residential mortgage insurance underwriting practices. Genworth Canada is in compliance with the B-21 Guideline which was effective June 30, 2015. 

Under PRMHIA and the Insurance Companies Act (Canada), our mortgage insurance business in Canada is required to meet a minimum capital test (&#147;MCT&#148;) to support its outstanding mortgage insurance in-force. The MCT ratio is calculated based on a methodology prescribed by OSFI. The Department of Finance in Canada has established an MCT ratio for our mortgage insurance business in Canada of 175% under PRMHIA. On June 23, 2013, OSFI communicated that it has commenced an internal process aimed at developing a new capital framework for mortgage insurers expected to be effective in 2017. We regularly review our capital levels and, after reviewing stress testing results and consulting with OSFI in 2014, we have established an operating MCT holding target of 220% pending the development of the new capital framework for mortgage insurers. The holding target of 220% MCT is designed to provide a capital buffer to allow time to take necessary actions should capital levels be pressured by deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. In the third quarter of 2014, OSFI published an interim MCT guideline for mortgage insurers effective January 1, 2015. This guideline was developed by adjusting the 2015 MCT guideline applicable to property and casualty insurers to reflect the specific characteristics of the mortgage insurance business until the new capital framework for mortgage insurers is developed. The implementation of the interim MCT in 2015 did not have a significant impact on our MCT ratio. As of December 31, 2015, our MCT ratio was 233%, which is above capital holding requirements as well as the MCT holding target. 

On December 11, 2015, CMHC announced a price increase to its guarantee fees it will charge issuers as well as annual limits for new guarantees for both its National Housing Act Mortgage-Backed Securities (&#147;NHA MBS&#148;) and Canadian Mortgage Bond (&#147;CMB&#148;) programs effective July 1, 2016. CMHC guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest for NHA MBS and CMB, enabling approved financial institutions to pool eligible mortgages and transform them into marketable securities that can be sold to investors. The guarantee fees are paid by lenders in addition to the mortgage insurance premium. This price increase was in addition to a price increase implemented effective April 1, 2015. On June 3, 2015, the Canadian government published regulations that prohibit the substitution of mortgages in insured pools after May 15, 2015 and limit the mortgage insurer&#146;s commitment period to no more than one year. 

On June 6, 2015, the Canadian government published draft regulations to implement the prohibition that was announced in its 2013 budget to limit portfolio insurance to only those mortgages that will be used in CMHC securitization programs and to prohibit the use of government guaranteed insured mortgages in private securitizations. The regulations will become effective on July 1, 2016. Although it is difficult to determine the full impact of these changes at this time, we believe the changes will decrease demand for low loan-to-value mortgage insurance. 

The Insurance Companies Act (Canada) provides that dividends may only be declared by the board of directors of the Canadian insurer and paid if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the payment of the dividend would not cause the insurer to be in violation of its minimum capital and liquidity requirements. Also, we are required to notify OSFI prior to the dividend payment. 

&#160;

As a public company that is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (the &#147;TSX&#148;), Genworth Canada is subject to securities laws and regulation in each province in Canada, as well as the reporting requirements of the TSX. 

Australia regulation 

APRA regulates all ADIs in Australia and life, general and mortgage insurance companies. APRA&#146;s authorization conditions require Australian mortgage insurers to be monoline insurers, which are insurers offering just one type of insurance product. APRA&#146;s prudential standards apply to individual authorized insurers and to the relevant Australian-based holding company and group. 

APRA also sets minimum capital levels and monitors corporate governance requirements, including the risk management strategy for our Australian mortgage insurance business. In this regard, APRA reviews our management, controls, processes, reporting and methods by which all risks are managed, including an annual financial condition report and an annual report on insurance liabilities by an appointed actuary. APRA also requires us to submit its risk management strategy and reinsurance management strategy, which outlines the use of reinsurance in Australia, annually and more frequently if there are material changes. 

In setting minimum capital levels, APRA requires mortgage insurers to ensure they have sufficient capital to withstand a hypothetical three-year stress loss scenario defined by APRA. APRA&#146;s prudential standards provide for increased mortgage insurers&#146; capital requirements for insured loans that are considered to be non-standard. APRA also imposes quarterly reporting obligations on mortgage insurers with respect to risk profiles, reinsurance arrangements and financial position. We evaluate the capital position of our mortgage insurance business in Australia in relation to the Prescribed Capital Amount (&#147;PCA&#148;) as determined by APRA, utilizing the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (&#147;ICAAP&#148;) as the framework to ensure that our Australia group of companies as a whole, and each regulated entity, are independently capitalized to meet regulatory requirements. As of December 31, 2015, our PCA ratio was 159%, which is above capital holding requirements. 

In addition, APRA determines the capital requirements for ADIs and has reduced capital requirements for certain ADIs that insure residential mortgages with an &#147;acceptable&#148; mortgage insurer for all non-standard mortgages and for standard mortgages with loan-to-value ratios above 80%. APRA&#146;s prudential standards currently set out a number of circumstances in which a loan may be considered to be non-standard from an ADI&#146;s perspective. The capital levels for Australian IRB ADIs are determined by their APRA-approved IRB models, which may or may not allocate capital credit for LMI. We believe that APRA and the IRB ADIs have not yet finalized internal models for residential mortgage risk, so we do not believe that the IRB ADIs currently benefit from an explicit reduction in their capital requirements for mortgages covered by mortgage insurance. APRA&#146;s prudential standards also provide that LMI on a non-performing loan (90 days plus arrears) protects most ADIs from having to increase the regulatory capital on the loan to a risk-weighting of 100%. These prudential standards include a definition of an &#147;acceptable&#148; mortgage insurer and eliminate the reduced capital requirements for ADIs in the event that the mortgage insurer has contractual recourse to the ADI or a member of the ADI&#146;s consolidated group. 

On July 20, 2015, APRA issued a press release announcing that for the IRB banks the average risk-weight on Australian residential mortgage loan exposures will increase from approximately 16% to at least 25%, which will be effective on July 1, 2016. In October 2015, the Australian government issued a response to the Financial System Inquiry (&#147;FSI&#148;) recommendations, setting forth the Australian government&#146;s approach and intended timeline for improving Australia&#146;s financial system. While the Australian government agreed with the FSI&#146;s recommendations regarding setting strong capital ratio requirements for ADIs and narrowing mortgage risk weight differences, the Australian government&#146;s response did not specifically comment on the role and utilization of mortgage insurance. Rather, the Australian government endorsed APRA&#146;s role in regulating these areas. On December 16, 2015, APRA announced a staggered approach to IRB accreditation, providing the capacity for an ADI to use accredited IRB models for regulatory capital purposes for some credit portfolios ahead of others, and 

&#160;

also noting the Basel Committee&#146;s review of capital management for IRB banks. Given the recent nature of these regulatory and policy developments, we and other market participants are still assessing potential impacts and we have therefore not yet determined whether or how these regulatory and policy developments will impact our Australian mortgage insurance business. 

In November 2014, APRA released Prudential Practice Guide APG 223 Residential Mortgage Lending (&#147;APG 223&#148;), as part of its continued focus on lending standards. The guidelines are focused on clarifying the regulators&#146; expectations around lending standards and, amongst other items, addressed the strengthening of loan serviceability testing across all ADIs. In addition, APRA also wrote to ADIs to advise that in its view annual investor credit growth materially above a benchmark of 10% would be an important risk indicator that supervisors will take into account when reviewing ADIs&#146; residential mortgage risk profile and considering supervisory actions. In August 2015, the Australian Securities &#38; Investments Commission (&#147;ASIC&#148;) released a report following its investigations into &#147;interest-only&#148; loans over the first half of 2015. The report introduces new responsible lending guidance for banks and non-bank lenders, brokers and servicers, focusing on home loans. The impact of APG 223 and the increased supervision by APRA and ASIC has been the tightening of lending standards which in 2015 has begun to lead to reduced volumes of new insurance written for loans with loan-to-values greater than 80% and gross written premiums in our Australian mortgage insurance business. 

APRA has the power to impose restrictions on the ability of our Australian mortgage insurance business to declare and pay dividends based on a number of factors, including the impact on the minimum regulatory capital ratio of that business. 

As a public company that is traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (the &#147;ASX&#148;), Genworth Australia is subject to Australian securities laws and regulation, as well as the reporting requirements of the ASX. 

Other Non-U.S. Insurance Regulation 

We operate in a number of countries around the world in addition to the United States, Canada, Australia and Bermuda. Generally, our subsidiaries (and in some cases our branches) conducting business in these countries must obtain licenses from local regulatory authorities and satisfy local regulatory requirements, including those relating to rates, forms, capital, reserves and financial reporting. 

Other Laws and Regulations 

Securities regulation 

Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and certain policies, contracts and services offered by them, are subject to regulation under federal and state securities laws and regulations of the SEC, state securities regulators and FINRA. Most of our insurance company separate accounts are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Most of our variable annuity contracts and all of our variable life insurance policies, as well as our FABNs issued by one of our U.S. subsidiaries as part of our registered notes program are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. One of our U.S. subsidiaries is registered and regulated as a broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of, and subject to regulation by FINRA, as well as by various state and local regulators. The registered representatives of our broker/dealer are also regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are subject to applicable state and local laws. 

These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the broker/dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser or broker/dealer registration, censure or fines. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the states and other countries in which we offer the products described above or conduct other securities-related activities. 

&#160;

The SEC, FINRA, state attorneys general, other federal offices and the New York Stock Exchange may conduct periodic examinations, in addition to special or targeted examinations of us and/or specific products. These examinations or inquiries may include, but are not necessarily limited to, product disclosures and sales issues, financial and accounting disclosure and operational issues. Often examinations are &#147;sweep exams&#148; whereby the regulator reviews current issues facing the financial or insurance industry as a whole. 

Environmental considerations 

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is also an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies, and have made loans secured by properties, that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based upon information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

ERISA considerations 

We provide certain products and services to employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (&#147;ERISA&#148;) or the Internal Revenue Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and fiduciaries may not cause or permit a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor (&#147;DOL&#148;), the Internal Revenue Service (&#147;IRS&#148;) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 

In April 2015, the DOL re-proposed regulations that may expand the circumstances in which sales personnel, such as insurance agents, are considered fiduciaries under ERISA. The proposed regulations have not yet been finalized. We cannot predict whether these regulations will become final regulations and what impact, if any, these regulations, if they become final, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

USA PATRIOT Act 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#147;Patriot Act&#148;), enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker/dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the Patriot Act. Certain additional requirements became applicable under the Patriot Act in May 2006 through a U.S. Treasury regulation which required that certain insurers have anti-money laundering compliance plans in place. We believe our internal practices, procedures and controls comply with these requirements. 

&#160;

Privacy of consumer information 

In the United States, federal and state laws and regulations require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer financial information and to notify consumers about policies and practices relating to the collection and disclosure of consumer information and policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Similarly, federal and state laws and regulations govern the disclosure and security of consumer health information. In particular, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission and various states regulate the disclosure and use of protected health information by health insurers and other covered entities, the physical and procedural safeguards employed to protect the security of that information, and the electronic transmission of such information. From time to time, Congress and state legislatures consider additional legislation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information. We cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted, or what impact, if any, such legislation may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

In Europe, the collection and use of personal information is subject to strict regulation. The European Union&#146;s Data Protection Directive establishes a series of baseline privacy requirements that European Union member states are obliged to enact into their national legislation. In addition, certain European Union countries have additional national law requirements regarding the use of private data. Other European countries that are not European Union member states have similar privacy requirements in their national laws. These requirements generally apply to all businesses, including insurance companies, and include the provision of notice to customers and other persons concerning how their personal information is used and disclosed, limitations on the transfer of personal information to countries outside the European Union, registration with the national privacy authorities, where applicable, and the use of appropriate information security measures against the access or use of personal information by unauthorized persons. We are monitoring developments in European Union privacy law, including the agreement announced regarding the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework, which will govern EU-to-U.S. data transfers, and the expected adoption of the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which will replace existing national privacy laws for European Union member countries. These developments may increase costs as we transition to ensure compliance with the new regimes, but we cannot predict the long-term impact, if any, these developments may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Similar laws and regulations protecting the security and confidentiality of consumer and financial information are also in effect in Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 4,100 full-time and part-time employees. 

Directors and Executive Officers 

See Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our directors and executive officers. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, without charge, on our website, www.genworth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish such reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file or furnish with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Copies of our SEC filed or furnished reports are also available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, 6620 West Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230. 

&#160;

Our website also includes the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Risk Committee, and Management Development and Compensation Committee, any key practices of these committees, our Governance Principles, and our company&#146;s code of ethics. Copies of these materials also are available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, at the above address. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers. 

On June 4, 2015, our President and Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by us of the New York Stock Exchange&#146;s corporate governance listing standards. 

Transfer Agent and Registrar 

Our Transfer Agent and Registrar is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, P.O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170. Telephone: 866-229-8413; 201-680-6578 (outside the United States and Canada may call collect); and 800-231-5469 (for hearing impaired). 

&#160;

