 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

Overview 

Groupon is a global leader in local commerce, making it easy for people around the world to search and discover great businesses and merchandise. Our vision is to connect local commerce, increasing consumer buying power while driving more business to merchants through price and discovery. We want Groupon to be the destination that our consumers check first when they are out and about; the place they start when they are looking to buy just about anything, anywhere, anytime. By leveraging our global relationships and scale, we provide consumers with savings and help them discover what to do, eat, see, buy and where to travel in 28 countries. 

Groupon operates online local commerce marketplaces throughout the world that connect merchants to consumers by offering goods and services, generally at a discount. Consumers access those marketplaces through our websites, primarily localized groupon.com sites in many countries, and our mobile applications. Traditionally, local merchants have tried to reach consumers and generate sales through a variety of methods, including online advertising, paid telephone directories, direct mail, 

3 &#32; 

newspaper, radio, television and other promotions. By bringing the brick and mortar world of local commerce onto the Internet, Groupon is helping local merchants to attract customers and sell goods and services. 

Our operations are organized into three principal segments: North America, which represents the United States and Canada, EMEA, which is comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and the remainder of our international operations ("Rest of World"). We offer goods and services in three primary categories: Local Deals ("Local"), Groupon Goods ("Goods") and Groupon Getaways ("Travel"). We act as a marketing agent by selling vouchers ("Groupons") that can be redeemed for products or services with third party merchants. We also sell merchandise inventory directly to customers. 

Our results from 2015 &#32;include the following: 

-  Gross billings increased to $6.3 billion &#32;in 2015 , as compared to $6.2 billion &#32;in 2014 . In 2015 , 59.3% , 28.7% &#32;and 12.0% &#32;of our gross billings were generated in North America, EMEA and Rest of World, respectively, as compared to 53.0% , 32.8% &#32;and 14.2% &#32;in 2014 . Gross billings represent the total dollar value of customer purchases of goods and services, excluding applicable taxes and net of estimated refunds. Gross billings differs from our revenue, which is presented net of the merchant's share of the transaction price for transactions in which we act as a third party marketing agent. Gross billings and revenue are the same for transactions in which we sell merchandise inventory directly to customers. 

-  Revenue increased to $3.1 billion &#32;in 2015 , as compared to $3.0 billion &#32;in 2014 . In 2015 , 65.6% , 27.8% &#32;and 6.6% &#32;of our revenue was generated in North America, EMEA and Rest of World, respectively, as compared to 60.0% , 31.6% &#32;and 8.4% &#32;in 2014 . 

-  Gross profit decreased to $1.4 billion &#32;in 2015 , as compared to $1.5 billion &#32;in 2014 . 

-  Loss from operations was $79.8 million &#32;in 2015 , as compared to income from operations of $30.7 million &#32;in 2014 . 

-  We recognized a $202.2 million &#32;pre-tax gain ( $154.1 million &#32;net of tax) from the sale of a controlling stake in our Korean subsidiary Ticket Monster, Inc. ("Ticket Monster") on May 27, 2015. The financial results of Ticket Monster and gain on disposition, net of tax, are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

-  The number of active customers, which is defined as customers who have made a purchase on our platform within the last twelve months, increased to 48.9 million &#32;as o f &#32; December 31, 2015 &#32; from 47.4 million &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . 

-  As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 650,000 &#32;active deals available to customers through our marketplaces. 

We are a Delaware corporation, incorporated on January 15, 2008 under the name "ThePoint.com, Inc." We started Groupon in October 2008 and officially changed our name to Groupon, Inc. by filing an amended certificate of incorporation on June 16, 2009. Our principal executive offices are located at 600 West Chicago Avenue, Suite 400, Chicago, Illinois 60654, and our telephone number at this address is (312) 334-1579. Our investor relations department can be reached through our investor relations hotline, which is (312) 999-3098. Our website is www.groupon.com . Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We completed our initial public offering in November 2011 and our Class A common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "GRPN." 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;GROUPON, the GROUPON logo and other GROUPON-formative marks are trademarks of Groupon, Inc. in the United States or other countries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes other trademarks of Groupon and trademarks of other persons. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to build marketplaces that our customers rely on to discover and save on amazing things to eat, see, do, buy and where to travel. Key elements of our strategy include the following: 

Narrowing our focus and improving our operating efficiency . We have undertaken a number of actions to simplify and streamline our global business. In May and August 2015, we disposed of controlling stakes in our operations in Korea and India, 

4 &#32; 

respectively. In September 2015, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan primarily related to workforce reductions in our international operations that is expected to be substantially complete by September 2016. In addition to the workforce reductions in our ongoing markets, we ceased operations in six &#32;countries within our Rest of World segment and seven &#32;countries within our EMEA segment during 2015 in connection with the restructuring plan. Additionally, we integrated our Ideel apparel marketplace from its standalone website to groupon.com and exited its fulfillment center and an office location. We also recently announced that we are exiting four additional countries in our EMEA segment in the first quarter of 2016. We are continuing to conduct a strategic review of certain international markets as we seek to optimize our global footprint and focus on the markets that we believe to have the greatest potential impact on our results of operations. 

We continue to seek to improve our operating efficiency through a global initiative to integrate and streamline our technology platforms in order to provide a fast, stable and secure platform to support our business. Additionally, we are increasingly automating the system tools and capabilities for our functional teams to improve our overall operating efficiency. We expect to continue our efforts to streamline and simplify our business in the future. 

Improving margins in our Goods category. &#32; We recently commenced an initiative to de-emphasize lower margin product offerings in our Goods category. We expect to continue to focus on improving margins in future periods, both by focusing on higher-margin offerings and also by seeking to bring more third party sellers of merchandise to our marketplaces in North America. Additionally, in connection with our efforts to reduce costs and improve the customer experience, we continue to focus on streamlining our order fulfillment process for Goods. For example, to reduce the involvement of third party logistics providers w e launched our own fulfillment center in 2013 and have increased our use of arrangements in which the suppliers of our product offerings ship merchandise directly to our customers. We also continue to refine our inventory management practices to better allocate inventory among warehouses in different geographic regions throughout the United States to reduce shipping distances to customers and increase units per shipment. 

Increasing our active customer base. In addition to expanding our supply of offers, we are increasing our marketing investments in order to secure new customers and drive additional growth. Our online marketing campaigns are primarily focused on customer acquisition, customer retention and driving incremental sales. We are focusing our offline advertising activities on developing our brand strength and awareness. 

Improving the customer experience. Our goal is to build marketplaces that our customers rely on to discover and save on amazing things to eat, see, do , buy and where to travel. We believe that the customer experience will improve by growing the supply of active deals available through our marketplaces, continuing to invest in our mobile technology and by creating a frictionless experience for our customers and merchants. 

Following our transition from &#32; primarily a "push" business model that generated demand by emailing offers to customers to more of a demand fulfillment, or "pull," model that enables customers to search for goods and services on our websites and mobile applications, we continue to build our marketplaces and expand our supply of offers. We have increased our average active deal counts from approximately 1,000 deals available worldwide at the time of our initial public offering in November 2011 to approximately 650,000 &#32;deals available worldwide as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. By continuing to develop and expand our marketplaces and improve the search functionality of our websites and mobile applications, we seek to seamlessly connect our customers with great deals on local merchant offerings, merchandise and travel. 

Investments in our mobile technology enable us to provide customers with new and innovative ways to discover our deal offerings across our platforms through browse, search, location, proximity, personalization, and relevance, among others. Given the increasing quantity of offers on our platforms, we believe that advances in connecting our customers to our deal offerings will lead to higher conversion and overall strong customer satisfaction. Additionally, we believe that improving our mobile technology will help us capitalize on the growing trend of consumers making purchases through smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices. In the fourth quarter of 2015, over 55% &#32;of our global transactions were completed on mobile devices and over 120 million people have downloaded our mobile applications worldwide as of December 31, 2015. 

As we continue to build our marketplaces, we want our customers to have a superior, frictionless experience every time they use our product whether finding, booking, buying or redeeming an offer. For merchants, this includes providing capabilities to manage demand for their goods and services and improving their ability to acquire customers. For consumers, this includes easily finding offers and accessing features such as booking and takeout and delivery that augment the overall experience, as well as seamlessly purchasing and redeeming offers. 

Our Business 

5 &#32; 

We earn revenue from transactions where we act as a marketing agent by selling vouchers through our online local marketplaces that can be redeemed for goods or services with a third party merchant. Our third party revenue from those transactions is reported on a net basis as the purchase price received from the customer for the voucher less an agreed upon portion of the purchase price paid to the featured merchant. We also earn revenue by selling merchandise inventory directly to customers through our online marketplaces. Our direct revenue from those transactions is the purchase price received from the customer. 

Our business model has evolved in recent years from primarily an email-based "push" model with a limited number of deals offered at any given time to more extensive online "pull" marketplaces, where customers can come to Groupon's websites and mobile applications to search and browse for deals on goods and services. We also publish ratings and helpful tips from customers to highlight the unique aspects of local merchants, including merchants that have not offered deals through our marketplaces. 

We offer goods and services through our online local marketplaces in three primary categories: Local, Goods and Travel. Collectively, Local and Travel comprise our "Services" offerings and Goods, which we also refer to as "Shopping," reflects our product offerings. 

Local. Our Local category includes offerings from local and national merchants, as well as local events. Local also includes other revenue sources such as commission revenue, payment processing revenue and advertising revenue, as these revenue sources are primarily generated through our relationships with local and national merchants. Our local offerings comprise multiple subcategories, including food and drink, events and activities, beauty and spa, health and fitness, home and garden and automotive. In the United States, customers can book reservations at selected restaurants through our website and mobile applications. National merchants also have used our marketplaces as an alternative to traditional marketing and brand advertising. Although our business today is weighted toward deals from local merchants, we continue to feature national deals to build our brand awareness, acquire new customers and generate additional revenue. In 2015, we acquired OrderUp, Inc. ("OrderUp"), in order to expand our local offerings in the food ordering and delivery sector and enhance related technology capabilities. In addition to local and national deals, through our Coupons offering we give customers the ability to access digital coupons from thousands of retailers. Additionally, GrouponLive is a partnership with LiveNation through which Groupon offers deals on concerts, sports, theater and other live entertainment events. 

Goods. &#32;&#32;Our Goods category offers customers the ability to find deals on merchandise across multiple &#32; product lines, including electronics, sporting goods, jewelry, toys, household items and apparel. As the Goods category continues to grow, we expect that we will continue to add new brands to our platform in order to expand our offerings. &#32; 

In our Goods category, we earn direct revenue from transactions in which we sell merchandise inventory, directly to customers, as well as third party revenue from transactions in which we act as a marketing agent and sell vouchers that can be redeemed for products with a third party merchant. Goods transactions in our North America and EMEA segments are primarily direct revenue deals. Goods transactions in our Rest of World segment are primarily third party revenue deals. 

Travel . Through our Travel category, we feature travel offers at both discounted and market rates, including hotels, airfare and package deals covering both domestic and international travel. For many of our travel deals, the customer must contact the merchant directly to make a travel reservation after purchasing a travel voucher from us. However, for some of our hotel deals, customers make room reservations directly through our websites. 

Distribution 

Our customers access our online local commerce marketplaces through our websites, which primarily consist of localized groupon.com sites in countries throughout the world, and through &#32; our mobile applications. We use a variety of marketing channels to direct customers to the deal offerings available through these marketplaces, as described in the "Marketing" section below. 

Consumers are increasingly accessing our deals through our mobile applications, as well as through mobile browsers. These applications enable consumers to browse, purchase, manage and redeem deals on their mobile devices. In addition, in many of our markets, consumers have a "Nearby" tab, which shows the deals that are closest to the consumer's location. In the fourth quarter of 2015, over 55% &#32;of our global transactions were completed on mobile devices. 

Marketing 

We primarily use marketing to acquire customers and promote awareness of our marketplaces and the services and product offerings available through those marketplaces. Consequently, marketing is an important part of our growth strategy and remains a key element of our business operations. Our marketing spend increased, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue, 

6 &#32; 

during the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared to the prior year. Additionally, we intend to significantly increase marketing expense in future periods in connection with our efforts to accelerate customer growth. 

We use a variety of marketing channels to make customers aware of the deal offerings on our mobile and web platforms, including search engines, through search engine optimization ("SEO") and marketing ("SEM"), email, affiliate channels, display advertising, and, to a lesser extent, offline marketing. 

Search engines. &#32;&#32;Customers can access our deal offerings indirectly through third party search engines. We use SEO and SEM to increase the visibility of our offerings in web search results. 

Email. &#32;In North America and most of our international markets, we use targeting technology to determine which deal offerings to communicate to our email subscribers based on their locations and personal preferences. A subscriber who clicks on a deal offering within an email is directed to our website or mobile application to learn more about the deal and make a purchase. 

Affiliate channels . We have an affiliate program that utilizes third parties to promote our deal offerings online. Affiliates earn commissions when customers access our deal offerings through links on their websites and make purchases on our platform. We expect to continue to leverage affiliate relationships to extend the distribution of our deals to a broad base of potential customers. 

Other . We publish deals through various social networks and adapt our notifications to the particular format of each of these social networking platforms. Our websites and mobile application interfaces enable consumers to push notifications of our deals to their personal social networks. In addition to social networks, we promote our deals using display advertising on websites. To a lesser extent, we also use radio and television advertising. 

Our marketing activities also include elements that are not presented as "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations, such as order discounts and free shipping on qualifying merchandise sales. 

Sales and Operations 

Our sales force consists of approximately 4,000 merchant sales representatives and sales support staff, who build merchant relationships and provide local expertise. Our North American merchant sales representatives and support staff are primarily based in our offices in Chicago and Phoenix, and our international merchant sales representatives and support staff are based in their respective local offices. &#32; Our global sales and sales support headcount by segment as of December 31, 2015 was as follows: 

North America 

1,347 

EMEA 

1,643 

Rest of World 

1,002 

Total 

3,992 

Other key operational functions include deal managers, editorial, merchant services, customer service, technology, merchandising and logistics. Deal managers work with sales teams to optimize deal structure and pricing, as well as manage the category, discount and geographic mix of deals in their respective markets. Our editorial department is responsible for creating the written and visual content on the deals we offer. Merchant services representatives work with merchants to plan for increased customer traffic before a deal is offered and serve as an ongoing point of contact for the merchant over the term of a deal. Our customer service department is responsible for answering questions received via phone, email and on public discussion boards regarding purchases, shipping status, returns and other areas of customer inquiry. Our technology team is focused on the design and development of new features and products, maintenance of our websites and development and maintenance of our internal systems. Merchandising and logistics personnel are responsible for managing inventory and the flow of products from suppliers to our customers. 

Our websites are hosted at a U.S. data center in Santa Clara, California and international data centers in Asia and Europe. Our data centers host our public-facing websites and applications, as well as our back-end business intelligence systems. We employ security practices to protect and maintain the systems located at our data centers. We have invested in intrusion and anomaly detection tools to try to recognize intrusions to our websites. We engage independent third-party Internet security firms to regularly test the security of our websites and identify vulnerabilities. In financial transactions with customers conducted on our websites and mobile applications, we use data encryption protocols to secure information while in transit. See " Risk Factors " for additional information relating to cyber threats. 

7 &#32; 

Competition 

Our business is rapidly evolving and we face competition from a variety of current and potential competitors. Some of our competitors offer deals as an add-on to their core business, and others have adopted a business model similar to ours. In addition, our Goods business competes with other e-commerce marketplaces and traditional retailers. As we expand our business into additional categories and subcategories, we will compete with online and offline merchants offering similar products and services. For example, we have recently begun to compete with businesses that offer restaurant takeout and delivery services. In addition, we compete with online advertising platforms, traditional offline coupon and discount services, and other offline advertising businesses. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: 

-  size of active customer base and breadth of merchant relationships; 

-  mobile penetration; 

-  understanding of local business trends; 

-  ability to structure deals to generate positive return on investment for merchants; 

-  ability to generate large volumes of sales in our Goods and Travel categories; and 

-  strength and recognition of brand. 

Although we believe that we compete favorably on the factors described above and benefit from scale, we anticipate that larger, more established companies may directly compete with us over time. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to benefit from their existing customer base with lower acquisition costs or to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies, which may allow them to build a larger subscriber base or to monetize that subscriber base more effectively than we do. Our competitors may develop products or services that are similar to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. 

Seasonality 

We believe that some of our offerings experience seasonal buying patterns mirroring that of the larger consumer retail and e-commerce markets, where demand declines during customary summer vacation periods and increases during the fourth quarter holiday season. We believe that this seasonality pattern has affected, and will continue to affect, our business and quarterly sequential revenue growth rates. We recognized 29.4%, 29.0% and 29.9% of our annual revenue during the fourth quarter of 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Regulation 

&#32; We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. Additionally, these laws and regulations may be interpreted differently across domestic and foreign jurisdictions. As a company in a relatively new and rapidly innovating industry, we are exposed to the risk that many of these laws may evolve or be interpreted by regulators or in the courts in ways that could materially affect our business. These laws and regulations may involve taxation, unclaimed property, intellectual property, product liability, travel, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, the provision of various online payment services, employee, merchant and customer privacy and data security or other areas. 

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the "CARD Act"), as well as the laws of most states, contain provisions governing gift cards, gift certificates, stored value or pre-paid cards or coupons ("gift cards"). Groupon vouchers may be included within the definition of "gift cards" under many laws. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions have laws that govern disclosure and certain product terms and conditions, including restrictions on expiration dates and fees that may apply to Groupon vouchers as well as warranty requirements. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments that could affect us, and our global operations may be constrained by regulatory regimes and laws in Europe and other jurisdictions outside the United States that may be more restrictive and adversely impact our business. 

8 &#32; 

Various U.S. laws and regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the "Bank Secrecy Act"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and the CARD Act impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. These laws and regulations broadly define financial institutions to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers and sellers or issuers of stored value. Requirements imposed on financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures and transaction reporting. We do not believe that we are a financial institution subject to these laws and regulations. 

Intellectual Property 

We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. 

In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, domain names and patents to protect our intellectual property. Groupon and its related entities own a number of trademarks and servicemarks registered or pending in the United States and internationally. In addition, we own a number of issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and internationally and own and have applied for copyright registrations. 

Circumstances outside our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights and the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time-consuming. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 

Companies in the Internet, technology and other industries may own large numbers of patents, copyrights and trademarks or other intellectual property rights and may request license agreements, threaten litigation or file suit against us based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We are currently subject to, and expect to face in the future, lawsuits and allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. As as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement, and may experience an adverse result which could impact our business and/or our operating results. 

We have received in the past, and we anticipate we will receive in the future, communications alleging that items offered or sold through our website infringe third party copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights or that we have otherwise infringed third parties’ past, current or future intellectual property rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from offering and selling unlawful goods, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by third parties through our website. We may implement measures in an effort to protect against these potential liabilities that could require us to spend substantial resources and/or to reduce revenues by discontinuing certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. 

Employees 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; As of December 31, 2015 , there were 3,846 employees in our North America segment, consisting of 1,347 &#32;sales representatives and 2,499 corporate, operational and customer service representatives, 3,159 employees in our EMEA segment, consisting of 1,643 &#32;sales representatives and 1,516 corporate, operational and customer service representatives, and 2,867 employees in our Rest of World segment, consisting of 1,002 &#32;sales representatives and 1,865 corporate, operational and customer service representatives. 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth information about our executive officers: 

9 &#32; 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Rich Williams 

Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Brian Kayman 

Interim Chief Financial Officer 

Dane Drobny 

General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

Brian Stevens 

Chief Accounting Officer 

Rich Williams has served as our Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors since November 2015. Prior to this role, Mr. Williams served as our Chief Operating Officer since June 2015 and President of North America since October 2014. He joined the Company in June 2011 as Senior Vice President of Marketing. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Williams served in a variety of marketing leadership roles at Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) from January 2008 to June 2011, most recently as the Director, Paid Traffic leading global advertising. Prior to joining Amazon, he spent nearly seven years in sales and marketing leadership roles at Experian plc (LSE: EXPN), a global information services company. 

Brian Kayman &#32;has served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer since June 2015. Prior to this role, Mr. Kayman served as the Company’s Vice President, Tax since 2012 and Treasurer since April 2013. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Kayman previously served as an active principal at Miller Cooper &amp; Co., Ltd. from 2004 to 2012, a partner at Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP from 2002 to 2004 and spent approximately 14 years as a certified public accountant at Arthur Andersen, most recently as a partner. 

Dane Drobny &#32;has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2014. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Drobny was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ: SHLD) from May 2010 to June 2014. Prior to joining Sears Holdings, he spent 17 years at the international law firm of Winston &amp; Strawn LLP, most recently as a partner. 

Brian Stevens has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since September 2012. Prior to joining Groupon, Mr. Stevens spent 16 years with KPMG LLP, most recently as a partner. Mr. Stevens spent five years in KPMG's Department of Professional Practice and was a practice fellow at the Financial Accounting Standards Board from 2006 to 2008. Mr. Stevens is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and serves on its Financial Reporting Executive Committee (FinREC). 

Available Information 

The Company electronically files reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company's website (www.groupon.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. The Company's Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are also posted on the site. The Company uses its Investor Relations website (investor.groupon.com) and its blog (https://www.groupon.com/blog) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Information contained on our website and blog is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#3