 Item 1. 

Business 

THE COMPANY 

Overview 

Chart Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1992 (the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;Chart&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221; as used herein refers to Chart Industries, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise), is a leading diversified global manufacturer of highly engineered equipment for the industrial gas, energy, and biomedical industries. The largest portion of end-use applications for our products is energy-related, accounting for approximately 42% &#32;of sales and 34% &#32;of orders in 2015 , and 58% &#32;of backlog at December 31, 2015 . Our equipment and engineered systems are primarily used for low-temperature and cryogenic applications utilizing our expertise in cryogenic systems and equipment, which operate at low temperatures sometimes approaching absolute zero (0 kelvin; -273&#176; Centigrade; -459&#176; Fahrenheit). Our products include vacuum insulated containment vessels, heat exchangers, cold boxes, other cryogenic components and equipment for respiratory therapy. 

Our primary customers are large, multinational producers and distributors of hydrocarbon and industrial gases and their end-users. We sell our products and services to more than 2,000 customers worldwide. We have developed long-standing relationships with leading companies in the gas production, gas distribution, gas processing, liquefied natural gas or LNG, chemical and industrial gas industries, including Air Products, Praxair, Airgas, Air Liquide, The Linde Group or Linde, Bechtel Corporation, ExxonMobil, British Petroleum or BP, ConocoPhillips, PetroChina, The Shaw Group, Toyo, JGC, Samsung, UOP, and Shell, some of whom have been purchasing our products for over 20 years. 

We have attained this position by capitalizing on our technical expertise and know-how, broad product offering, reputation for quality, low-cost global manufacturing footprint, and by focusing on attractive, growing markets. We have an established sales and customer support presence across the globe and low cost manufacturing operations in the United States, Central Europe and China. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , we generated sales of $1,040.2 million , $1,193.0 million , and $1,177.4 million , respectively. 

Segments, Applications and Products 

We operate in three business segments: (i) Energy &#38; Chemicals or E&#38;C, (ii) Distribution &#38; Storage or D&#38;S, and (iii) BioMedical. While each segment manufactures and markets different cryogenic and gas processing equipment and systems to distinct end-users, they all share a reliance on our heat transfer, vacuum insulation, low temperature storage and gas processing know-how and expertise. The E&#38;C and D&#38;S segments manufacture products used primarily in energy-related and industrial applications, such as the separation, liquefaction, distribution and storage of hydrocarbon and industrial gases. Through our BioMedical segment, we supply cryogenic and other equipment used in respiratory healthcare and life sciences including biological research and animal breeding. Further information about these segments is located in Note 19 of the notes to the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The following charts show the proportion of our revenues generated by each business segment, as well as our estimate of the proportion of revenue generated by end-user application for the year ended December 31, 2015 : 

&#32; 

Energy &#38; Chemicals Segment 

E&#38;C ( 32% &#32;of sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 ) facilitates major natural gas, petrochemical processing and industrial gas companies in the production of their products. E&#38;C supplies mission critical engineered equipment and systems used in the separation, liquefaction, and purification of hydrocarbon and industrial gases that span gas-to-liquid applications including natural gas processing, LNG, and industrial gas applications. Our principal products include brazed aluminum heat exchangers, Core-in-Kettle &#174; &#32;heat exchangers, air cooled heat exchangers, cold boxes, and process systems. Brazed aluminum heat exchangers accounted for 11.9%, 14.9% and 14.4% of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Process systems accounted for 14.0%, 12.3% and 13.5% of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 

Natural Gas Processing (including Petrochemical) applications 

We provide natural gas processing solutions that facilitate the progressive cooling and liquefaction of hydrocarbon mixtures for the subsequent recovery or purification of component gases, which accounted for 17.4% , 17.5% &#32;and 14.9% &#32;of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Our brazed aluminum heat exchangers allow producers to obtain purified hydrocarbon by-products, such as methane, ethane, propane and ethylene, which are commercially marketable for various industrial or residential uses. Our cold boxes are highly engineered systems that incorporate brazed aluminum heat exchangers, pressure vessels and interconnecting piping used to significantly reduce the temperature of gas mixtures to liquefy component gases so that they can be separated and purified for further use in multiple energy, industrial, scientific and commercial applications. Our air cooled heat exchangers are used to cool or condense fluids to allow for further processing and for cooling gas compression equipment. Customers for our natural gas processing applications include large companies in the hydrocarbon processing industry, as well as engineering, procurement and construction (&#8220;EPC&#8221;) contractors. 

Demand for these applications is primarily driven by the growth in the natural gas liquids (or NGLs) separation and other natural gas segments of the hydrocarbon processing industries, including LNG. In the future, management believes that continuing efforts by petroleum producing countries to better utilize stranded natural gas and previously flared gases present a promising source of demand. We have a number of competitors for our heat exchangers and cold boxes, including a number of leading companies in the industrial gas and hydrocarbon processing industries and many smaller fabrication-only facilities 

around the world. Competition with respect to our more specialized brazed aluminum heat exchangers includes a small number of global (European and Asian) manufacturers. 

LNG applications 

We provide mission critical equipment for the liquefaction of LNG including small to mid-scale facilities, floating LNG applications, and large base-load export facilities, which accounted for 13.1% , 12.1% &#32;and 9.7% &#32;of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. We are a leading supplier to EPC firms where we provide equipment or design the process and provide equipment, providing an integrated approach to the project. These &#8220;Concept-to-Reality&#8221; process systems incorporate many of Chart&#8217;s core products, including brazed aluminum heat exchangers, Core-in-Kettle &#174; &#32;heat exchangers , &#32;cold boxes, pressure vessels, pipe work and air cooled heat exchangers. These systems are used for global LNG projects, including projects in China and North America for local LNG production and LNG export terminals. We have developed our proprietary IPSMR &#174; &#32;(Integrated Pre-cooled Single Mixed Refrigerant) liquefaction process, which offers lower capital expenditure rates than competing processes per ton of LNG produced and offers very competitive operating costs. 

Demand for LNG applications is primarily driven by increased use and global trade in natural gas (transported as LNG) since natural gas offers significant cost and environmental advantages over other fossil fuels. Demand for LNG applications is also driven by diesel displacement and continuing efforts by petroleum producing countries to better utilize stranded natural gas and previously flared gases. We have a number of competitors for these applications, including leading industrial gas companies, other brazed aluminum heat exchanger manufacturers, and other equipment fabricators to whom we also act as a supplier of equipment including heat exchangers and cold boxes. 

Industrial Gas applications 

For industrial gas applications, our brazed aluminum heat exchangers and cold boxes are used to produce high purity atmospheric gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen and argon, which have diverse industrial applications. Cold boxes are used to separate air into its major atmospheric components, including oxygen, nitrogen, and argon, where the gases are used in a diverse range of applications such as metal production and heat treating, enhanced oil and gas production, coal gasification, chemical and oil refining, electronics, medical, the quick-freezing of food, wastewater treatment, and industrial welding. Our brazed aluminum heat exchangers and cold boxes are also used in the purification of helium and hydrogen. 

Demand for industrial gas applications is driven by growth in manufacturing and industrial gas use. Other key global drivers involve developing Gas to Liquids, or GTL, clean coal processes including Coal to Liquids, or CTL, and Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle, or IGCC, power projects. In addition, demand for our products in developed countries is expected to continue as customers upgrade their facilities for greater efficiency and regulatory compliance. We have a number of competitors for these applications including leading industrial gas companies and EPC firms to whom we also act as a supplier of equipment including heat exchangers and cold boxes. 

Distribution &#38; Storage Segment 

D&#38;S ( 47% &#32;of sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 ) designs, manufactures, and services cryogenic solutions for the storage and delivery of cryogenic liquids used in industrial gas and LNG applications. Using sophisticated vacuum insulation technology, our cryogenic storage systems are able to store and transport liquefied industrial gases and hydrocarbon gases at temperatures from 0&#176; Fahrenheit to temperatures nearing absolute zero. End-use customers for our cryogenic storage equipment include industrial gas producers and distributors, chemical producers, manufacturers of electrical components, health care organizations, food processors, and businesses in the oil and natural gas industries. Cryogenic bulk storage systems accounted for 15.0%, 12.7% and 14.9% of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Cryogenic packaged gas systems accounted for 15.3%, 13.4% and 13.0% of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. We service industrial gas and LNG applications as follows: 

Industrial Gas applications 

We design, manufacture, install, service, and maintain bulk and packaged gas cryogenic solutions for the storage, distribution, vaporization, and application of industrial gases, which accounted for 35.7% , 30.9% &#32;and 33.9% &#32;of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Industrial gas applications include any end-use of the major elements of air (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon), including manufacturing, welding, electronics, medical, nitrogen dosing, food processing, and beverage carbonation. Carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, hydrogen and helium applications also utilize our equipment. Our products span the entire spectrum of industrial gas demand from small customers requiring cryogenic packaged gases to large users requiring custom engineered cryogenic storage systems in both mobile and stationary applications. We also offer cryogenic components, including vacuum insulated pipe (&#8220;VIP&#8221;), engineered bulk gas installations, specialty liquid nitrogen, or LN2, end-use equipment and cryogenic flow meters. We operate service locations in the United 

States, China and Europe that provide installation, service, repair and maintenance of cryogenic products. Principal customers for industrial applications are global industrial gas producers and distributors. 

Demand for industrial gas applications is driven primarily by the significant installed base of users of cryogenic liquids as well as new applications and distribution technologies for cryogenic liquids. Our competitors tend to be regionally focused while we are able to supply a broad range of systems on a worldwide basis. We also compete with several suppliers owned by the global industrial gas producers. From a technology perspective, we tend to compete with compressed gas alternatives or on-site generated gas supply. 

LNG Applications 

We supply cryogenic solutions for the storage, distribution, regasification, and use of LNG, which accounted for 11.1% , 17.6% &#32;and 16.4% &#32;of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. LNG may be utilized as an alternative to other fossil fuels such as diesel, propane or fuel oil in transportation or off pipeline applications. Examples include heavy duty truck and transit bus transportation, locomotive propulsion, marine, and power generation in remote areas that often occurs in oil and gas drilling. We refer to our LNG distribution products as a &#8220;Virtual Pipeline,&#8221; as the traditional natural gas pipeline is replaced with cryogenic distribution to deliver the gas to the end-user. We supply cryogenic trailers, ISO containers, railcars, bulk storage tanks, fuel stations, loading facilities, and regasification equipment specially configured for delivering LNG into Virtual Pipeline applications. LNG may also be used as a fuel for a variety of off-road vehicles and applications. Our LNG vehicle fueling applications primarily consist of LNG and liquefied/compressed natural gas refueling systems for heavy-duty truck and bus fleets. We sell LNG applications around the world from various D&#38;S facilities to numerous end-users, energy companies, and gas distributors. Additionally, we supply large vacuum insulated storage tanks as optional equipment for purchasers of standard liquefaction plants sold by our E&#38;C business. 

Demand for LNG applications is driven by the spread in price between oil and gas, diesel displacement initiatives, environmental and energy security initiatives, and the associated cost of equipment. Our competitors tend to be regionally focused or product-specific, while we are able to supply a broad range of solutions required by LNG applications. We compete with compressed natural gas (or CNG) or field gas in several of these applications and LNG is most highly valued where its energy density and purity are beneficial to the end-user. 

BioMedical Segment 

BioMedical ( 21% &#32;of sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 ) consists of various product lines built around our core competencies in cryogenics, vacuum insulation, low temperature storage, and pressure swing adsorption, but with a focus on the respiratory and biological users of the liquids and gases instead of the large producers and distributors of cryogenic liquids. Applications in the BioMedical segment include the following: 

Respiratory Therapy 

Respiratory therapy products accounted for 12.7% , 11.8% &#32;and 14.9% &#32;of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Our respiratory oxygen product line is comprised of a range of medical respiratory products, including liquid oxygen systems and stationary, transportable, and portable oxygen concentrators, all of which are used primarily for in-home supplemental oxygen treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, such as bronchitis, emphysema and asthma. 

We believe that competition for our respiratory products is based primarily upon product quality, performance, reliability, ease-of-use and price, and we focus our marketing strategies on these considerations. Furthermore, competition also includes the impact of other modalities in the broader respiratory industry. 

Life Sciences 

Our life science products include vacuum insulated containment vessels for the storage of biological materials. The primary applications for this product line include medical laboratories, biotech/pharmaceutical, research facilities, blood and tissue banks, veterinary laboratories, large-scale repositories and artificial insemination, particularly in the beef and dairy industry. 

The significant competitors for life science products include a number of companies worldwide. These products are sold through multiple channels of distribution specifically applicable to each industry sector. The distribution channels range from highly specialized cryogenic storage systems providers to general supply and catalogue distribution operations and breeding service providers. Competition in this field is focused on design, reliability and price. Alternatives to vacuum insulated containment vessels include electrically powered mechanical refrigeration. 

Commercial Oxygen Generation 

Our commercial oxygen generation products include self-contained generators, standard generators, and packaged systems for industrial and medical oxygen generating systems. These generators produce oxygen from compressed air and provide an efficient and cost-effective alternative to the procurement of oxygen from third party cylinder or liquid suppliers. Applications include mining operations, industrial plants, ozone generation, hospital medical oxygen, and wastewater treatment, among other commercial applications. Management expects demand for this product line to increase over the long-term with competition focused on design, reliability and price. 

Domestic and Foreign Operations 

Financial and other information regarding domestic and foreign operations is located in Note 19 of the notes to the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information regarding risks attendant to foreign operations is set forth in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#8221; and Item 7 under the caption &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Engineering and Product Development 

Our engineering and product development activities are focused primarily on developing new and improved solutions and equipment for the users of cryogenic liquids and hydrocarbon and industrial gases across all industries served. Our engineering, technical and marketing employees actively assist customers in specifying their needs and in determining appropriate products to meet those needs. Portions of our engineering expenditures typically are charged to customers, either as separate items or as components of product cost. 

Competition 

We believe we can compete effectively around the world and that we are a leading competitor in the industries we serve. Competition is based primarily on performance and the ability to provide the design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities required in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Contracts are usually awarded on a competitive bid basis. Quality, technical expertise and timeliness of delivery are the principal competitive factors within the industries we serve. Price and terms of sale are also important competitive factors. Because independent third-party prepared market share data is not available, it is difficult to know for certain our exact position in our markets, although we believe we rank among the leaders in each of the markets we serve. We base our statements about industry and market positions on our reviews of annual reports and published investor presentations of our competitors and augment this data with information received by marketing consultants conducting competition interviews and our sales force and field contacts. For information concerning competition within a specific segment of the Company&#8217;s business, see the descriptions provided under segment captions in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Marketing 

We market our products and services in each of our segments throughout the world primarily through direct sales personnel and independent sales representatives and distributors. The technical and custom design nature of our products requires a professional, highly trained sales force. We use independent sales representatives and distributors to market our products and services in certain foreign countries and in certain North American regions. These independent sales representatives supplement our direct sales force in dealing with language and cultural matters. Our domestic and foreign independent sales representatives earn commissions on sales, which vary by product type. 

Backlog 

The dollar amount of our backlog as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 &#32;was $374.6 million , $640.1 million &#32;and $728.8 million , respectively. Approximately 22.4% &#32;of the December 31, 2015 &#32;backlog is expected to be filled beyond 2016 . Backlog is comprised of the portion of firm signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments received from customers that we have not recognized as revenue under the percentage of completion method or based upon shipment. Backlog can be significantly affected by the timing of orders for large products, particularly in the E&#38;C segment, and the amount of backlog at December 31, 2015 &#32;described above is not necessarily indicative of future backlog levels or the rate at which backlog will be recognized as sales. Orders included in our backlog may include customary cancellation provisions under which the customer could cancel all or part of the order, potentially subject to the payment of certain costs and/or penalties. For further information about our backlog, including backlog by business segment, see Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Customers 

We sell our products primarily to gas producers, distributors and end-users across energy, industry, life sciences and respiratory healthcare applications in countries throughout the world. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 36% , 34% &#32;and 37% &#32;of consolidated sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. No single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated sales in 2015 . Our sales to particular customers fluctuate from period to period, but the global producers and distributors of hydrocarbon and industrial gases and their suppliers tend to be a consistently large source of revenue for us. Our supply contracts are generally contracts for &#8220;requirements&#8221; only. While our customers may be obligated to purchase a certain percentage of their supplies from us, there are generally no minimum requirements. Also, many of our contracts may be canceled at any time, subject to possible cancellation charges. To minimize credit risk from trade receivables, we review the financial condition of potential customers in relation to established credit requirements before sales credit is extended, and we monitor the financial condition of customers to help ensure timely collections and to minimize losses. In addition, for certain domestic and foreign customers, particularly in the D&#38;S and E&#38;C segments, we require advance payments, letters of credit, bankers&#8217; acceptances and other such guarantees of payment. Certain customers also require us to issue letters of credit or performance bonds, particularly in instances where advance payments are involved, as a condition to placing the order. We believe our relationships with our customers are generally good. 

Intellectual Property 

Although we have a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to our business, no one of them or related group of them is considered by us to be of such importance that its expiration or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business. In general, we depend upon technological capabilities, manufacturing quality control and application of know-how, rather than patents or other proprietary rights, in the conduct of our business. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

We manufacture most of the products we sell. The raw materials used in manufacturing include aluminum products (including sheets, bars, plate and piping), stainless steel products (including sheets, plates, heads and piping), palladium oxide, carbon steel products (including sheets, plates and heads), valves and gauges and fabricated metal components. Most raw materials are available from multiple sources of supply. We believe our relationships with our raw material suppliers and other vendors are generally good. Raw material prices were fairly stable during 2015, and we expect them to remain stable during 2016. Subject to certain risks related to our suppliers as discussed under Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; we foresee no acute shortages of any raw materials that would have a material adverse effect on our operations. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016 , we had 4,266 employees, including 2,128 &#32;domestic employees and 2,138 &#32;international employees. 

We are a party to one collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (&#8220;IAM&#8221;) covering 194 &#32;employees at our La Crosse, Wisconsin heat exchanger facility. Effective February 3, 2013, we entered into a five-year agreement with the IAM which expires on February 3, 2018. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations have historically included and currently include the handling and use of hazardous and other regulated substances, such as various cleaning fluids used to remove grease from metal, that are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These regulations impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the soil, air and water, and establish standards for their handling, management, use, storage and disposal. We monitor and review our procedures and policies for compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our management is familiar with these regulations and supports an ongoing program to maintain our adherence to required standards. 

We are involved with environmental compliance, investigation, monitoring and remediation activities at certain of our owned or formerly owned manufacturing facilities and at one owned facility that is leased to a third party. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all known environmental regulations. We accrue for certain environmental remediation-related activities for which commitments or remediation plans have been developed or for which costs can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are determined based upon currently available facts regarding each facility. Actual costs incurred may vary from these estimates due to the inherent uncertainties involved. Future expenditures relating to these environmental remediation efforts are expected to be made over the next 13 years &#32;as ongoing costs of remediation programs. We do not believe that these regulatory requirements have had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We are not anticipating any material capital expenditures in 2016 &#32;that are directly related to regulatory compliance matters. Although we believe we have adequately provided for the cost of all known environmental conditions, 

additional contamination, the outcome of disputed matters or changes in regulatory posture could result in more costly remediation measures than budgeted, or those we believe are adequate or required by existing law. We believe that any additional liability in excess of amounts accrued which may result from the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, cash flows or results of operations. 

Available Information 

Additional information about the Company is available at www.chartindustries.com. On the Investor Relations page of the website, the public may obtain free copies of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable following the time that they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Additionally, the Company has posted its Code of Ethical Business Conduct and Officer Code of Ethics on its website, which are also available free of charge to any shareholder interested in obtaining a copy. This Form 10-K and reports filed with the SEC are also accessible through the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. References to our website or the SEC&#8217;s website do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on such websites, and such information is not part of this Form 10-K. 

