 Item 1. B usiness 

Company Profile 

Getty Realty Corp., a Maryland corporation, is the leading publicly-traded real estate investment trust (&#147;REIT&#148;) in the United States specializing in the ownership, leasing and financing of convenience store and gasoline station properties. Our 851 properties are located in 23 states across the United States and Washington, D.C. Our properties are operated under a variety of brands including 76, Aloha, BP, Citgo, Conoco, Exxon, Getty, Mobil, Shell and Valero. We own the Getty &#174; trademark and trade name in connection with our real estate and the petroleum marketing business in the United States. 

We are self-administered and self-managed by our management team, which has extensive experience in owning, leasing and managing convenience store and gasoline station properties. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in real estate and real estate related investments when appropriate opportunities arise. As of March 10, 2016, we had 32 employees. 

Company Operations 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned 753 properties and leased 98 properties from third-party landlords. Our typical property is used as a convenience store and gasoline station, and is located on between one-half and three quarters of an acre of land in a metropolitan area. The properties that we have acquired since 2007 are generally located on larger parcels of land. In addition, many of our properties are located at highly trafficked urban intersections or conveniently close to highway entrances or exit ramps. Our properties are concentrated in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. We believe our network of convenience store and gasoline station properties across the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States is unique and that comparable networks of properties are not readily available for purchase or lease from other owners or landlords. 

Substantially all of our properties are leased on a triple-net basis primarily to petroleum distributors and, to a lesser extent, to individual operators. Generally our tenants supply fuel and either operate our properties directly or sublet our properties to operators who operate their convenience stores, gasoline stations, automotive repair service facilities or other businesses at our properties. Convenience store and gasoline station properties are an integral component of the transportation infrastructure supported by highly inelastic demand for petroleum products, day-to-day consumer goods and convenience foods. Substantially all of our tenants&#146; financial results depend on the sale of refined petroleum products, convenience store sales or rental income from their subtenants. As a result, our tenants&#146; financial results are highly dependent on the performance of the petroleum marketing industry, which is highly competitive and subject to volatility. During the terms of our leases, we monitor the credit quality of our triple-net tenants by reviewing their published credit rating, if available, reviewing publicly available financial statements, or financial or other operating statements which are delivered to us pursuant to applicable lease agreements, monitoring news reports regarding our tenants and their respective businesses, and monitoring the timeliness of lease payments and the performance of other financial covenants under their leases. As of December 31, 2015 we consider 805 of our properties to be part of our net lease portfolio (see below) and 46 of our properties to be transitional (see below). 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Net Lease Portfolio. As of December 31, 2015, we leased 805 properties to tenants under long-term triple-net leases; an increase of 109 properties, or 16%, over the year ended December 31, 2014. This increase in our net lease portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2015 resulted from our acquisition and leasing activities, offset by the impact of our disposition activities and certain previously net leased properties which we reclassified as transitional (as described below). Our net lease portfolio consists of 724 properties leased to 25 regional and national fuel distributors under unitary or master triple-net leases and 81 properties leased under single unit triple-net leases. Our triple-net leases generally provide for initial terms of 15 years with options for successive renewal terms of up to 20 years and include provisions for rental increases during the initial and renewal terms of the lease. As of December 31, 2015, our average lease term, excluding renewal options, weighted by the number of underlying properties, was approximately 12 years. Our triple-net tenants are responsible for the payment of all taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance and other operating expenses relating to our properties, and are also responsible for environmental contamination occurring during the terms of their leases and in certain cases also for environmental contamination that existed before their leases commenced. 

Several of our leases provide for additional rent based on the aggregate volume of fuel sold. For the year ended December 31, 2015, additional rent based on the aggregate volume of fuel sold was not material to our financial results. In addition, certain of our leases require the tenants to make capital expenditures at our properties, substantially all of which are related to the replacement of underground storage tanks (&#147;UST&#148; or &#147;USTs&#148;) that are owned by our tenants during the terms of their leases. As of December 31, 2015, we have a remaining commitment to fund as much as $11.9 million in the aggregate with our tenants for a portion of such capital expenditures within the next approximately five years. See &#147;Leasing Activities&#148; in Note 2 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Transitional Properties. We regularly evaluate our portfolio of properties and, as of December 31, 2015, we had 46 properties which we consider to be transitional properties, defined as properties which we are actively repositioning for sale, redevelopment or re-leasing. As of December 31, 2014, we had 167 transitional properties, of which we either leased or disposed of 129 properties during 2015, representing a 77% year-over-year decline. The reduction in the number of our transitional properties can be attributed to: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Dispositions. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we sold 84 properties (70 properties were classified as transitional) for $25.1 million in the aggregate. Our 2015 disposition activities included the Company-financed sale of 48 properties to affiliates of Hanuman Business, Inc. (d/b/a &#147;Ramoco&#148;). These properties had been leased to Ramoco under a unitary lease (the &#147;Ramoco Lease&#148;) and had previously been designated as transitional properties as a consequence of our agreement with Ramoco to restructure such lease. In addition, one third-party leased property expired during the year ended December 31, 2015. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leasing Activities. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we leased 58 transitional properties to tenants under long-term triple-net leases. As a result, these properties are now included in our net lease portfolio. Our 2015 leasing activities also included three new unitary leases covering an aggregate of 42 properties, which had previously been leased to NECG Holdings Corp., (&#147;NECG&#148;) under our unitary lease with NECG (the &#147;NECG Lease&#148;). As a result of the restructuring of the NECG Lease, as of December 31, 2015, the remaining properties in the NECG Lease continue to be transitional. See &#147;NECG Lease Restructuring&#148; in Note 2 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2015, our 46 transitional properties were comprised of (i) eight properties subject to the NECG Lease, (ii) 15 properties occupied under month-to-month license agreements and (iii) 23 properties that are vacant. See &#147;Month-to-Month License Agreements&#148; in Note 2 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We expect that we will either sell or enter into new leases on all of our transitional properties over time. In addition, we also expect to invest in redeveloping certain of our transitional properties for alternative single tenant net lease uses. See &#147;Investment/Redevelopment Strategy and Activity&#148; below. Although we are currently working on repositioning our transitional properties, the timing of pending or anticipated transactions may be affected by factors beyond our control and we cannot predict when or on what terms sales or leases will ultimately be consummated. 

Investment / Redevelopment Strategy and Activity 

As part of our overall growth strategy, we regularly review acquisition and financing opportunities to invest in additional convenience store and gasoline station properties, and we expect to continue to pursue investments that we believe will benefit our financial performance. In addition to sale/leaseback and other real estate acquisitions, our investment activities include purchase money financing with respect to properties we sell, and real property loans relating to our leasehold portfolios. Our investment strategy seeks to generate current income and benefit from long-term appreciation in the underlying value of our real estate. To achieve that goal we seek to invest in high quality individual properties and real estate portfolios that will promote our geographic diversity. A key element of our investment strategy is to invest in properties in strong primary markets that serve high density population centers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful making additional investments, that investments will be available which meet our investment criteria or that our current sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund such investments. 

We believe that a portion of our properties are located in geographic areas, which together with other factors, may make them well-suited for alternative uses, such as, quick service restaurants, automotive parts and service stores, specialty retail stores and bank branch locations. We believe that such alternative types of properties can be leased or sold at higher values than their current use. We are in the process of pursuing redevelopment opportunities on certain of our transitional properties. In addition, we are also seeking to recapture select properties from our net lease portfolio to redevelop such properties for alternative uses. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we acquired fee simple interests in 80 convenience store and gasoline station properties for an aggregate purchase price of $219.2 million. Included in these acquisitions was our June 3, 2015 acquisition of fee simple interests in 77 convenience store and gasoline station properties from affiliates of Pacific Convenience and Fuels LLC which we simultaneously leased to Apro, LLC (d/b/a &#147;United Oil&#148;), a leading regional convenience store and gasoline station operator, under three separate cross-defaulted long-term triple-net unitary leases (the &#147;United Oil Transaction&#148;). The United Oil properties are located across California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon and Washington State and operate under several well recognized brands including 7-Eleven, 

&#160;

76, Circle K, Conoco and My Goods Market. The total purchase price for the United Oil Transaction was $214.5 million, which was funded with proceeds from our Credit Agreement and Restated Prudential Note Purchase Agreement. For information regarding the United Oil Transaction see Note 10 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 9B in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for selected combined audited financial data of United Oil. 

Over the last five years, we have acquired more than 250 properties, located in various states, at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $514 million. These acquisitions include single property transactions and portfolio transactions ranging in size, the largest of which is the United Oil Transaction. 

The History of Our Company 

Our founders started the business in 1955 with the ownership of one gasoline service station in New York City and combined real estate ownership, leasing and management with service station operation and petroleum distribution. We held our initial public offering in 1971 under the name Power Test Corp. In 1985, we acquired from Texaco the petroleum distribution and marketing assets of Getty Oil Company in the Northeast United States along with the Getty &#174; name and trademark in connection with our real estate and the petroleum marketing business in the United States. 

Getty Petroleum Marketing, Inc. (&#147;Marketing&#148;) was formed to facilitate the spin-off of our petroleum marketing business to our shareholders, which was completed in 1997. Marketing was acquired by a U.S. subsidiary of OAO Lukoil (&#147;Lukoil&#148;) in December 2000. In connection with Lukoil&#146;s acquisition of Marketing, we renegotiated our long-term unitary triple-net lease (the &#147;Master Lease&#148;) with Marketing. In December 2011, Marketing filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court (the &#147;Bankruptcy Court&#148;). The Master Lease was terminated effective April 30, 2012, and in July 2012, the Bankruptcy Court approved Marketing&#146;s Plan of Liquidation and appointed a trustee (the &#147;Liquidating Trustee&#148;) to oversee liquidation of the Marketing estate (the &#147;Marketing Estate&#148;). During the year ended December 31, 2015, we received distributions from the Marketing Estate of approximately $18.2 million. Pursuant to a Final Decree issued by the Bankruptcy Court in October 2015, the Chapter 11 cases pertaining to the Marketing Estate were closed, subject to final distributions to creditors which were made by the Liquidating Trustee in November 2015. We do not expect to receive any further distributions from the Marketing Estate. Approximately 400 of the properties we own or lease as of December 31, 2015 were previously leased to Marketing pursuant to the Master Lease. 

We elected to be treated as a REIT under the federal income tax laws beginning January 1, 2001. A REIT is a corporation, or a business trust that would otherwise be taxed as a corporation, which meets certain requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. The Internal Revenue Code permits a qualifying REIT to deduct dividends paid, thereby effectively eliminating corporate level federal income tax and making the REIT a pass-through vehicle for federal income tax purposes. To meet the applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, a REIT must, among other things, invest substantially all of its assets in interests in real estate (including mortgages and other REITs) or cash and government securities, derive most of its income from rents from real property or interest on loans secured by mortgages on real property, and distribute to shareholders annually a substantial portion of its otherwise taxable income. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders each year and would be subject to corporate level federal income taxes on any taxable income that is not distributed. 

Major Tenants 

As of December 31, 2015, we had three major tenants. For information regarding factors that could adversely affect us relating to our lessees with these tenants, see &#147;Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors&#148;. 

As of December 31, 2015, we leased 169 convenience store and gasoline station properties pursuant to three separate unitary leases to subsidiaries of Global Partners, LP (NYSE: GLP) (&#147;Global Partners&#148;). Two of these leases were assigned to subsidiaries of Global Partners in June 2015 by our former tenants, White Oak Petroleum, LLC and Big Apple Petroleum Realty, LLC (both affiliates of Capitol Petroleum Group, LLC). In the aggregate, our leases with subsidiaries of Global Partners represented 21% and 13% of our rental revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All three of our leases with subsidiaries of Global Partners are guaranteed by the parent company. 

As of December 31, 2015, we leased 84 convenience store and gasoline station properties pursuant to three separate unitary leases to subsidiaries of Chestnut Petroleum Dist. Inc. (&#147;Chestnut Petroleum&#148;). In the aggregate, our leases with subsidiaries of Chestnut Petroleum represented 16% and 19% of our rental revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The largest of these unitary leases, accounting for 57 of our properties, is guaranteed by the parent company, its principals and numerous Chestnut Petroleum affiliates. 

As of December 31, 2015, we leased 77 convenience store and gasoline station properties pursuant to three separate unitary leases to Apro, LLC (d/b/a &#147;United Oil&#148;). In the aggregate, our leases with United Oil represented 9% of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. For information regarding the United Oil Transaction see Note 10 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 9B in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for selected combined audited financial data of United Oil. 

&#160;

Our major tenants are part of larger corporate organizations and the financial distress of one subsidiary or other affiliated companies or businesses in those organizations may negatively impact the ability or willingness of our tenant to perform its obligations under its lease with us. 

Competition 

The net-lease retail sector of the real estate industry in which we operate is highly competitive. In addition, we expect major real estate investors with significant capital will continue to compete with us for attractive acquisition opportunities. These competitors include petroleum manufacturing, distributing and marketing companies, other REITs, public and private investment funds, and other individual and institutional investors. 

Trademarks 

We own the Getty&#174; name and trademark in connection with our real estate and the petroleum marketing business in the United States and we permit certain of our tenants and licensees to use the Getty&#174; trademarks at properties that they lease from us. 

Regulation 

Our properties are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including matters related to the protection of the environment such as the remediation of known contamination and the retirement and decommissioning or removal of long-lived assets including buildings containing hazardous materials, USTs and other equipment. These laws include: (i) requirements to report to governmental authorities discharges of petroleum products into the environment and, under certain circumstances, to remediate the soil and groundwater contamination, including pursuant to governmental order and directive, (ii) requirements to remove and replace USTs that have exceeded governmental-mandated age limitations and (iii) the requirement to provide a certificate of financial responsibility with respect to potential claims relating to UST failures. Our triple-net lease tenants are directly responsible for compliance with various environmental laws and regulations as the operators of our properties. 

We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted pertaining to environmental matters. Although we are unable to predict what legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future with respect to environmental protection and waste disposal, we do not believe that existing legislation and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. For additional information with respect to pending environmental lawsuits and claims see &#147;Item 3. Legal Proceedings&#148;. 

Environmental expenses are principally attributable to remediation costs which include removing USTs, excavation of contaminated soil and water, installing, operating, maintaining and decommissioning remediation systems, monitoring contamination and governmental agency compliance reporting incurred in connection with contaminated properties. We seek reimbursement from state UST remediation funds related to these environmental expenses where available. We enter into leases and various other agreements which allocate between the parties responsibility for known and unknown environmental liabilities at or relating to the subject premises. We are contingently liable for these environmental obligations in the event that our counterparty to the agreement does not satisfy them. 

For all of our triple-net leases, our tenants are contractually responsible for compliance with environmental laws and regulations, removal of USTs at the end of their lease term and remediation of any environmental contamination that arises during the term of their tenancy. Under the terms of our leases covering properties previously leased to Marketing (substantially all of which commenced in 2012), we have agreed to be responsible for environmental contamination at the premises that was known at the time the lease commenced, and which existed prior to commencement of the lease and is discovered (other than as a result of a voluntary site investigation) during the first ten years of the lease term (or a shorter period for a minority of such leases). After expiration of such ten year (or, in certain cases, shorter) period, responsibility for all newly discovered contamination, even if it relates to periods prior to commencement of the lease, is contractually allocated to our tenant. Our tenants at properties previously leased to Marketing are in all cases responsible for the cost of any remediation of contamination that results from their use and occupancy of our properties. Under substantially all of our other triple-net leases, responsibility for remediation of all environmental contamination discovered during the term of the lease (including known and unknown contamination that existed prior to commencement of the lease) is the responsibility of our tenant. 

For additional information please refer to &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#148; and to &#147;Liquidity and Capital Resources,&#148; &#147;Environmental Matters&#148; and &#147;Contractual Obligations&#148; in &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; and to Note 5 in &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#151; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

Additional Information 

Our website address is www.gettyrealty.com. Information available on our website shall not be deemed to be a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;) are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

Our website also contains our business conduct guidelines (&#147;Code of Ethics&#148;), corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Compensation, Nominating/Corporate Governance and Audit Committees of our Board of Directors. We intend to make available on our website any future amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics within four business days after any such amendments or waivers become effective. 

