 Item 1. Description of Business

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate" or "continue," or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

GENERAL

&#160;

On November 12, 2015, we changed our name to Vibe Wireless Corp in connection with merging with our wholly-owned subsidiary and adopted a business plan to pursue business opportunities in the global telecommunications industry. This name change and our ticker symbol change was acknowledged by FINRA and effected in the market on November 23, 2015. We are presently in the process of exploring business opportunities. 

&#160;

AnyTranslation Corp. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on July 5, 2012. We were founded to be in the business of translation and interpretation. The Company undertook translation and interpretation projects for various fields from business, economics, to science issues. All operating projects were customer tailored with freelancers that operated in their mother-tongue. We are presently in the process of exploring other business opportunities.

&#160;

Employees

We have no employees as of the date of this annual report, other than our sole officer and director. If our officer and director should resign or die, we will not have a chief executive officer. This could result in our operations suspending until we find another CEO or our investors might lose their money. Since we do not possess a personal life insurance on our existing CEO and we do not have a contract for his services, the investors will have a great chance of losing their investment in the event of us losing our CEO.

Target Market

The global telecommunications industry exceeds US$1 trillion in annual revenues. The industry is comprised of very large privately-owned and government-owned service providers as well as small to medium-sized market entrants. In some markets and for some services it is a highly regulated industry with wireless spectrum and other services subject to government approval for issuance of licenses, concessions and permits to operate. In some cases, regulatory approvals and capital expenditures to introduce new products and services may be a significant barrier to entry. Some telecommunications services and related service and product offerings are unregulated and/or do not require significant investment in equipment, and thus offer new entrants a market entry opportunity. The Company will seek to identify business opportunities to either develop and market products and services, enter into strategic alliances and relationships, or acquire existing companies or assets in selected markets.

In addition to growth in the use of wireline and wireless transport for voice and data transmissions, technologies such as smartphones and uses and applications such as video streaming, social media, online shopping, and online financial services are increasing worldwide demand for access to the internet by individuals, enterprises, governments, and other organizations. The Company expects this demand to grow into the near future.

Our Competition

The global telecommunications market is highly competitive. There are many domestic and international companies who provide telecommunications services and related services. We expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Competitors include companies with substantial customer bases and working history. There can be no assurance that we can maintain a competitive position against current or future competitors, particularly those with greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources. Our failure to maintain a competitive position within the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

