 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS . 

GSE Systems, Inc. ("GSE Systems", "GSE", the "Company", "we", "us" or "our"), a NYSE MKT company trading under symbol GVP, is a team of dedicated people that help customers meet their performance improvement goals and reduce their risk. We do this by combining expertise in simulation, engineering, and training to improve both plant and human performance.

We execute projects globally with over 260 employees operating from offices in the U.S., China, India, Sweden and the United Kingdom. While the majority of revenue comes from the nuclear and fossil power generation markets, we also serve the oil and gas, refining, chemicals, petrochemicals, industrial gas, manufacturing, and plant utilities markets.

GSE Systems was formed on March 30, 1994, to consolidate the simulation and related businesses of S3 Technologies, General Physics International Engineering &#38; Simulation and EuroSim, each separately owned and operated by ManTech International Corporation, GP Strategies Corporation and Vattenfall AB, respectively.

On April 26, 2010, we completed the acquisition of TAS Holdings Ltd ("TAS") and subsequently merged TAS into our UK subsidiary, GSE Systems Ltd. Our UK operations, located in Stockton-On-Tees, England provides engineering consulting, specifically in electrical system design, instrumentation and controls engineering and automation engineering. The majority of our UK customers are in the petroleum refining, oil and gas, chemical and petrochemical industries. 

On January 4, 2011, we acquired EnVision Systems, Inc. ("EnVision"). The EnVision product line consists of interactive computer-based tutorials and related simulation models primarily for the petrochemical and oil &#38; gas refining industries. The EnVision products provide a foundation in process fundamentals and plant operations and interaction. We have more than 750 installations of EnVision product in over 28 countries, and our approximately 130 clients include Shell Oil Company, BP Products North America, Total and Chevron.

On November 14, 2014, we acquired Hyperspring, LLC, an Alabama limited liability company. Hyperspring is a staff augmentation company that hires personnel to fulfill staff positions on a short-term basis for energy industry customers, primarily nuclear power customers. Hyperspring personnel provide training, operations and maintenance support including: generic fundamentals exams ("GFES"), accreditation training visit ("ATV") preparation, senior reactor operator ("SRO") certification, procedure development, work management, tagging/labeling, outage execution, planning/scheduling, corrective action, self-assessments and equipment reliability. Customers include TVA, Entergy, PSEG Nuclear LLC and NRG Energy Inc.

In conjunction with the Hyperspring acquisition, the Company acquired a 50% ownership stake in IntelliQlik, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. IntelliQlik is developing a software platform for online learning and learning management for the energy market. A former member of Hyperspring also has a 50% ownership stake in IntelliQlik.

On December 31, 2014 the Company merged EnVision with GSE Power Systems, Inc. and changed the name of GSE Power Systems, Inc. to GSE Performance Solutions, Inc. The change reflects our growing focus on providing solutions to improve human and plant performance lifecycles.

For years we have described ourselves as a simulation company, providing mainly simulation solutions to improve designs, de-risk projects and train operators. Our acquisition of Hyperspring, and investment in IntelliQlik, LLC, in November 2014 are helping to accelerate our transformation into a performance improvement company. We improve plant performance with a combination of simulation, engineering and plant services that help clients improve their plant's profitability, productivity and safety, and assist in decommissioning the plants at the end of their life cycle. We improve human performance by providing technologies and services that systematically help clients in recruiting and selecting the right person for the job and training that individual throughout their career from entry-level to expert.

As of December 31, 2015, GSE Systems was the parent company of:

&#168; GSE Performance Solutions, Inc. (formerly GSE Power Systems, Inc.), a Delaware corporation; 

&#168; GSE Power Systems, AB, a Swedish corporation; 

&#168; GSE Engineering Systems (Beijing) Co. Ltd., a Chinese limited liability company; 

&#168; GSE Systems, Ltd., a Scottish limited liability company; 

&#168; EnVision Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd., an Indian limited liability company; and 

&#168; Hyperspring, LLC, an Alabama limited liability company. 

The Company has a 50% interest in IntelliQlik, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a 50% interest in General Simulation Engineering RUS LLC, a Russian closed joint-stock company. The Company accounts for these entities under the equity method of accounting.

Operating Segments

We operate through two reportable business segments: Performance Improvement Solutions and Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting. Each segment focuses on delivering solutions to customers within our targeted markets - primarily the power and process industries. Marketing and communications, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and other administrative services are organized at the corporate level. Business development and sales resources are generally aligned with each segment to support existing customer accounts and new customer development. Our two business segments are:

&#183;

Performance Improvement Solutions (approximately 65% of revenue)

Our Performance Improvement Solutions segment primarily encompasses our next generation power plant and process high-fidelity simulation solutions, as well as engineering solutions. This segment includes various simulation products, engineering services, and operation training systems delivered across the industries we serve: primarily nuclear and fossil fuel power generation, and the process industries. Our simulation solutions include the following: (1) simulation software and services, including operator training systems, for the nuclear power industry, (2) simulation software and services, including operator training systems, for the fossil power industry, (3) simulation software and services for the process industries used to teach fundamental industry processes and control systems to newly hired employees and for ongoing workforce development and training.

&#183;

Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting (approximately 35% of revenue)

Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting provides highly specialized and skilled nuclear operations instructors and other consultants to the nuclear power industry. These employees work at our clients' facilities under client direction. Examples of these highly skilled positions are senior reactor operations instructors, procedure writers, work management specialists, planners and training material developers. This business is managed through our Hyperspring subsidiary. The business model, management focus, margins and other factors clearly separate this business line from the rest of the GSE product and service portfolio. Hyperspring has been providing these services since 2005.

Financial information is provided in Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements regarding our business segments and geographic operations and revenue.

Business Strategy, Industry Trends, Products, Services

Business Strategy

Our objective is to be the leading provider of software and technology-enabled services and know-how to the global power and process industries by capitalizing on near and long-term growth opportunities primarily in the nuclear industry. We will offer the same suite of products and services to adjacent markets such as fossil power and the process industries where our offerings are a natural fit with a clear and compelling value proposition for the market. Our primary growth strategy is twofold: (1) expand organically within our core markets by leveraging our market leadership position and drive increased usage and product adoption via new products and services, and (2) seek acquisitions to accelerate our overall growth. To accomplish this, we will pursue the following activities:

&#183;

Expand our total addressable market. &#160; Our focus on growth means introducing product capabilities or new product categories that create value for our customers and therefore expand our total addressable market. Currently we are working on initiatives to expand our solution offerings in both our business units which may include, but not be limited to the following: expanding our software product portfolio to the industries we serve such as enhanced power and process simulation tools and systems that are complementary to our core offerings; delivering enhanced learning management systems/solutions; offering fully outsourced training solutions to our customers; adding work flow process improvement solutions; and tailoring operational reporting and business intelligence solutions to address the unique need of our end user markets. Initiatives such as these will broaden our scope and enable us to engage more deeply with the segments we serve.

&#183;

Pursue strategic acquisitions opportunistically. &#160; We intend to complement our organic growth strategy through selective acquisitions of other software and service businesses, both domestic and international, which would enhance our existing portfolio of products, strengthen our relationships with our existing customers, and potentially expand our footprint to include new customers in our core served industries. We have made several small acquisitions in recent years and believe the opportunity exists to do more. For example, in January 2011 we acquired EnVision Systems Inc., which provided interactive multi-media tutorials and simulation models, primarily to the process industries. We have integrated the technology assets from this acquisition and expanded the firm's application to other industries, and we intend to repeat this successful process. We acquired Hyperspring in 2014, which enabled GSE to offer highly skilled nuclear operations and consulting know-how on site at a large segment of our client base on an operational basis providing essential services. This deepened our relationship with existing clients and won business for us at new client sites in the nuclear industry. This acquisition has proven to be very synergistic, including in 2015, for the first time, expanding these services internationally.

&#183;

Continue to provide technology-enabled, market-leading solutions. We invest in R&#38;D in order to deliver unique solutions that add tremendous value to our end-user markets. Recently we have delivered nuclear core and balance of plant modeling and visualization systems to the industry. To address the nuclear industry's need for more accurate simulation of both normal and accident scenarios, we provide our DesignEP TM and RELAP5-HD &#174; solutions. Our entire JADE TM suite of simulation software, including industry leading JTOPMERET &#174; and JElectric TM software, provides the most accurate simulation of Balance of Plant and electrical systems available to the nuclear and fossil plant simulation market. The significant enhancements we have made to our SimExec &#174; and OpenSim TM platforms enables customers to be more efficient in the daily operation of their simulators. We have both upgraded and expanded the EnVision library of simulation and eLearning tutorials for the process industries with specific new products for training clients in the upstream segment of the oil and gas industry. We continue to provide cutting edge training systems by adapting our technology to systems to meet the specific needs of customers such as U.S. government laboratories. Gross spending on software product development ("development") expenses totaled $3.1 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We intend to continue to make prudent investments in research and development ("R&#38;D") that first and foremost are driven by the market, and are complementary to advancing our growth strategy. Such investments in R&#38;D may result in on-going enhancement of existing solutions as well as the creation of new solutions to serve our target markets, ensuring that we add greater value, in an easier to use fashion, than any alternative available to customers and that we delight them in the process. GSE has pioneered a number of industry standards over our lifetime and will continue to be one of the most innovative companies in our industry. We have a recognized high-value brand as one of the most respected providers of software and services to the industry, as evidenced by our marquee client base and significant market wins over the past year.

&#183;

Expand International Operations in Selected Markets. We believe there are additional opportunities for us to market our software and services to international customers, and do so in a cost effective manner. For example, we believe partnerships with Value Added Resellers ("VAR") could significantly expand our sales pipeline for the EnVision software suite. Such VARs may yield positive results for our pursuing international nuclear opportunities globally (see industry trends below). We may explore the creation of appropriate JVs to target nuclear new-build programs in key growth regions.

Industry Trends

Industry need for building and sustaining a highly skilled workforce

We believe a critical ongoing challenge facing the industries we serve is access to and continued development of a highly trained and efficient workforce. This challenge manifests primarily in two ways: the increasing pace of the knowledge and experience lost as a significant percentage of the existing experienced workforce reaches retirement age over the next several years; and the fact that as new power plants come on-line, there is an increased demand for more workers to staff and operate those plants in addition to the plants in the existing fleet.

According to Power Engineering magazine, in the United States every sector in the energy industry is expected to lose a large percentage of its workforce as baby boomers retire on the traditional schedule. The power sector alone will be forced to replace more than 100,000 skilled workers by 2018 simply to replace those retiring. The Nuclear Energy Institute estimates that 39% of the nuclear workforce will be eligible to retire by 2018.

Globally, as more people increase their standard of living, their demand for power will increase, which in turn will require the on-going construction of power plants to meet this surging demand. Developing a skilled labor force to operate these plants and keeping their skills current and their certifications in compliance with regulatory requirements is a key challenge facing the global power industry. Similar challenges face the process industries as well.

An important emerging trend to note seems to be a growing recognition that nuclear energy is an increasingly desirable form of energy production fulfilling a key component of zero carbon initiatives across the globe. Support for generating power from zero carbon emissions sources is evidenced by initiatives such as the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference. Nuclear power generation is a critical means of zero carbon power generation that is growing in importance as a result. We believe that GSE is well positioned to take advantage of these trends as they emerge and develop.

Growing Global Power Demand and the Increasing Emphasis on Nuclear Power

World Energy Outlook 2015 projects that electricity demand increases by more than 70% over the 2013 to 2040 time period. At the same time, countries globally are pledging to reduce greenhouse gas emissions despite this growth in demand for power. These trends are increasingly favorable to nuclear power. The United Kingdom illustrates this trend, with a recently announced energy policy that places a much greater reliance on nuclear power and unveiled plans for a new nuclear fleet, while slashing subsidies for solar energy and an eye to phase out coal fired power plants. With plans to build at least three new nuclear plants, the UK plans to add 16GWe of new nuclear capacity operating by 2030 according to World Nuclear Association.

There are currently 65 nuclear plants under construction in 15 countries, including 24 in China, nine in Russia, six in India and four in the United Arab Emirates according to the Nuclear Energy Institute. Five reactors are currently under construction in the U.S. including two for Southern Nuclear at the Vogtle site; two at SCANA's VC Summer site and one at the Tennessee Valley Authority's Watts Bar generating facility (which is planned for commercial production imminently). According to the World Nuclear Association, there are 165 reactors in 27 countries in specific phases of planning that will be operating by 2030. This pace of construction is surpassing peak construction velocity of the 1970's and 1980's.

In addition to new plants, generating more power through enhanced plant performance, especially reducing unplanned outage time, is a critical objective for the nuclear power industry to meet growing global electricity demand. Capacity factors, also known as load factors, have been greater than 90% in the U.S. in five of the seven years between 2007 and 2013. The U.S. is recognized as the leader in load factor performance. The U.S. accounts for nearly one third of the world's nuclear electricity, highlighting its importance as a market as well as its need for high levels of performance.

We believe GSE is well positioned to take full advantage of these strategic global and domestic trends through our providing high fidelity simulation and training solutions to the global power and process industries.

Products and Services

Entry2Expert TM Performance Cycle

To assist our clients in creating world-class internal training and performance improvement programs, we are offering the Entry2Expert TM Performance Solution, a set of integrated and scalable products and services which provide a structured program from employee selection and onboarding through continuous skills improvement for experienced employees. GSE can now provide the right training solution for the right step in each employee's career.

The major elements of the Entry2Expert TM Performance Solution include defining specific training needs by analyzing job functions; following proven processes to structure the entire training program for clients; providing world-class training content and series of simulation solutions for both the new employee and most experienced workers; and providing the expert training staff and consultants to ensure this is all implemented effectively.

&#183;

Universal Training Simulators: These products complement the Self-Paced Training Tutorials by reinforcing what the student learned in the tutorial, putting it into practice on the Universal Simulator. The simulation models are high fidelity and engineering correct, but represent a typical plant or typical process, versus the exact replication of a client's plant. We have delivered over 250 such simulation models to clients consisting of major oil companies and educational institutions.

&#183;

Part-Task Training Simulators: Like the Universal Simulators, we provide other unique training solutions such as a generic nuclear plant simulator and VPanel displays, which replicate control room hardware and simulator solutions specific to industry needs such as severe accident models to train on and aid in the understanding of events like the Fukushima Daiichi accident.

&#183;

Plant-Specific Operator Training Simulators: These simulators provide an exact replication of the plant control room and plant operations. They provide the highest level of realism and training and allow users to practice their own plant-specific procedures. Clients can safely practice startup, shutdown, normal operations, as well as response to abnormal events we all hope they never have to experience in real life. We have delivered nearly 450 plant-specific simulators to clients in the nuclear power, fossil power and process industries worldwide.

The goal of our Entry2Expert TM performance lifecycle offering is to ensure superior human achievement in the dimensions of:

&#183;

Shortening the learning process

&#183;

Reducing human errors

&#183;

Mitigating the effects of retirement and turnover

&#183;

Improving workforce agility

&#183;

Achieving and maintaining certifications and compliance

&#183;

All of these dimensions help to improve our customers' bottom lines

The dramatic increase in energy demand world-wide over the next 30 years will require significant amounts of training for new employees and also will require new plants using energy of all sources. These new plants will need to be engineered and designed prior to construction, and GSE high-fidelity modeling tools are being used increasingly to verify and validate control system and overall plant designs.

Specialized Plant Support : As our customers' experienced staffs retire, access to experts that can help with specialized plant projects is critical. Through our Hyperspring subsidiary, we also can provide expert support either through staff augmentation or turnkey projects for the following:

o

Procedure Development

o

Training Material Upgrade and Development

o

Work Management

o

Outage Execution

o

Planning and Scheduling

o

Corrective Actions

o

Self-Assessments

o

Equipment Reliability

Entry2Expert TM ("E2E") brings together the collection of skills GSE has amassed over more than 40 years beginning with its traditional roots in custom high fidelity simulation and training solutions for the power industries, extended through the acquisition of specialized engineering capabilities, enhanced by the entry and intermediate level training solutions of EnVision, and the extensive nuclear industry training and consulting services of Hyperspring.

Customers and Locations

For more than 40 years, we have been developing next-generation, custom training simulation technologies. Since we built the first commercial full-scope nuclear power plant simulator in 1971, we have completed more than 1,100 installations in 50 countries and have built more full-scope power plant simulators than all of our competitors combined. 

In 2015, approximately 31% of our revenue was generated from end-users outside the United States. A small representative list of our customers include: ABB Inc., American Electric Power, Bechtel Hanford National Laboratory, Duke Energy, EDF Energy (United Kingdom), Emerson Process Management, Exelon, K&#228;rnkrafts&#228;kerhet och Utbildning AB (Sweden), Korean Electric Power Company (Korea), PSEG Nuclear, Inc., Shangdong Nuclear Power Co. Ltd. (China), Siemens AG (Germany), State Nuclear Power Automation System Engineering Company (China), Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC, Tennessee Valley Authority, US Department of Energy, and Westinghouse Electric Co.

Hydrocarbon and chemical process customers include numerous large oil refineries and chemical plants such as BP (worldwide), Statoil ASA (Norway), Chevron, Emerson Process Management, Shell Oil Company (worldwide), Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC, and Total (Belgium).

The following customer has provided more than 10% of the Company's consolidated revenue in 2015:

&#160; Years ended December 31,

&#160; 2015

&#160; 2014

Tennessee Valley Authority ("TVA")

15.9%

&#160; *

* Customer revenue balance was under 10% in 2014.

Marketing and Sales

We market our products and services through a network of direct sales staff, agents and representatives, and strategic alliance partners. Market-oriented business and customer account teams define and implement specific campaigns to pursue opportunities.

In 2015 we launched a new website with improved navigation, a modern look and feel, and responsiveness to whatever type of device the viewer is using. We continue to have a proactive public relations program, issuing more non-financial press releases aimed at product development and delivery, as well as our role in numerous industry trade shows and technical conferences. We are active across numerous social media platforms to build a stronger presence across all media our clients use to find information about the Company, and providing useful information for each stage of the client's journey with the Company.

The Company's ability to support its multi-facility, international and/or multinational clients is facilitated by its network of offices and strategic partners in the U.S. and overseas. In addition to the offices located overseas, the Company's ability to conduct international business is enhanced by its multilingual and multicultural workforce. GSE has strategic relationships with system integrators and agents representing its interests in Bulgaria, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, South America, South Korea, Taiwan, Ukraine and various locations in the Gulf Coast Countries of the Middle East.

Competition

The Performance Improvement Solutions business encounters intense competition. In the nuclear simulation market, GSE competes directly with firms primarily from Canada, France and the U.S., such as L-3 MAPPS Inc., a subsidiary of L-3 Communications (Canada), CORYS T.E.S.S (France) and Western Services Corporation. In the fossil simulation market, the Company competes with smaller companies in the U.S. and overseas. In the process industries the main competition comes from large Digital Control System/Automation companies such as Honeywell and Schneider. Competition for generalized engineering services, particularly those served from our office in the U.K., tend to be very locally oriented.

The Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting business services include training related products and services as well as staff augmentation solutions. The competition for training related services includes: GP Strategies, The Westwind Group, Professional Training Technologies, and Western Technical Services. The competition for staff augmentation includes: Absolute Consulting, CB&#38;I, Planet Forward, and The Westwind Group.

Competitive Advantages

While there is competition in various industry niches, there are few companies in our space that can combine the engineering, simulation and training expertise we now have through the execution of our acquisition strategy. None of our traditional competitors serve the broader performance improvement market and few work across the broader energy markets of Nuclear and Fossil power plus Petrochemicals.

&#183;

Unique Combination of Talent. Nobody in our market space brings together the sophistication of simulation technology with the engineering expertise, training expertise and visualization expertise to provide the holistic people and plant performance improvement solutions as well as we do.

&#183;

Reputation for Customer Satisfaction. As part of its ISO-9000 Quality Program Certification, GSE measures customer satisfaction across numerous factors such as On-Time Delivery, Problem Solving, and Customer Communication. In each category measured we routinely exceed customer expectations . 

&#183;

Industry Expertise . GSE is a leading innovator and developer of real-time software with more than 40 years of experience producing high-fidelity, real-time simulators. As a result, the Company has acquired substantial applications expertise in the energy and industrial process industries. The Company employs a highly educated and experienced multinational workforce of over 260 employees, including approximately 140 engineers and scientists in fields such as chemical, mechanical and electrical engineering, applied mathematics and computer sciences, and approximately 70 instructors and plant operations staff specialists.

&#183;

Proprietary Software Tools . GSE has developed a library of proprietary software tools including auto-code generators and system models that substantially facilitate and expedite the design, production and integration, testing and modification of software and systems. These tools are used to automatically generate the computer code and systems models required for specific functions commonly used in simulation applications, thereby enabling it or its customers to develop high-fidelity, real-time software quickly, accurately and at lower costs. The Company also has an expertise in being able to integrate 3 rd party engineering codes into the Company's simulation environment, thereby being able to offer some of the most sophisticated technical solutions in the market. The Company has a substantial library of Process-Specific Simulation models and eLearning Modules aimed at the oil and gas, refining and specialty chemicals market.

&#183;

Training Curricula . The Company has developed hundreds of detailed courses and simulator exercise material and specific industrial applications including oil and gas refining, gas-oil production, nuclear and combined cycle gas turbine power plant and desalination.

&#183;

Our Nuclear Industry Training and Consulting business is mostly focused on training and operations support. Our trainers and consultants provide their services at the customer facilities which allows us to interface with our customers directly in the course of doing business versus having to periodically call on customers. Our proximity allows us a significant competitive advantage in that we can immediately offer solutions and therefore bypass lengthy bid processes.

Intellectual Property.

The Company depends upon its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technology and information. GSE maintains a portfolio of trademarks (both registered and unregistered), copyrights (both registered and unregistered), and licenses. While such trademarks, copyrights and licenses as a group are of material importance to the Company, it does not consider any one trademark, copyright, or license to be of such importance that the loss or expiration thereof would materially affect the Company. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, copyright, and trademark law, contractual arrangements and technical means to protect its intellectual property rights. GSE distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses for the use of its products, which are nontransferable. Use of the licensed software is restricted to designated computers at specified sites, unless the customer obtains a site license of its use of the software. Software and hardware security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company's software, and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction of the software.

The Company does not own any patents. The Company believes that all of the Company's trademarks (especially those that use the phrase "GSE Systems") are valid and will have an unlimited duration as long as they are adequately protected and sufficiently used. The Company's licenses are perpetual in nature and will have an unlimited duration as long as they are adequately protected and the parties adhere to the material terms and conditions.

GSE has numerous registered U.S. trademarks: GSE Systems&#174;, JTOPMERET&#174;, RELAP5-HD&#174;, TOTALVISION&#174;, VPanel&#174; and SimExec&#174;. Some of these trademarks have also been registered in foreign countries. The Company also claims trademark rights to DesignEP&#8482;, Java Application and Development Environment (JADE)&#8482;, OpenSim&#8482;, PSA-HD&#8482;, RACS&#8482;, SimSuite Pro&#8482;, SmartTutor&#8482;, THOR&#8482;, and Xtreme I/S&#8482;.

In addition, the Company maintains federal statutory copyright protection with respect to its software programs and products, has registered copyrights for some of the documentation and manuals related to these programs, and maintains trade secret protection on its software products.

Despite these protections, the Company cannot be sure that it has protected or will be able to protect its intellectual property adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of its intellectual property will be prevented, that others have not or will not develop similar technology independently, or, to the extent it owns any patents in the future, that others have not or will not be able to design around those patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company's products are sold do not protect its products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

Industries Served.

The following chart illustrates the approximate percentage of the Company's 2015 and 2014 consolidated revenue by industries served:

&#160; Years ended December 31,

&#160; 2015

&#160; 2014 (1) 

Nuclear power industry

71%

&#160; 61%

Fossil fuel power industry

17%

&#160; 22%

Process industry

7%

&#160; 10%

Other

5%

&#160; 7%

Total

100%

&#160; 100%

(1) Prior year amounts have been revised to correct misstatements that were deemed to be immaterial to both the current and prior periods, as described in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

The increase in nuclear power in industry revenue in 2015 as compared to &#160; 2014 reflects the acquisition of Hyperspring in November 2014. Approximately 97% of Hyperspring's 2015 revenue was generated from nuclear power customers.

Contract Backlog.

The Company does not reflect an order in backlog until it has received a contract or purchase order that specifies the terms and milestone delivery dates or other payment terms. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's aggregate contract backlog totaled approximately $47.9 million of which approximately $30.2 million or 63.0% is expected to be converted to revenue by December 31, 2016. As of December 31, 2014, the Company's aggregate contract backlog totaled approximately $49.7 million.

Employees.

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 268 employees as compared to 335 employees at December 31, 2014.

