 Item 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

HEICO Corporation through its subsidiaries (collectively, &#8220;HEICO,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) believes it is the world&#8217;s largest manufacturer of Federal Aviation Administration (&#8220;FAA&#8221;)-approved jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts, other than the original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;) and their subcontractors. HEICO also believes it is a leading manufacturer of various types of electronic equipment for the aviation, defense, space, medical, telecommunications and electronics industries. 

The Company was originally organized in 1957 as a holding company known as HEICO Corporation. As part of a reorganization completed in 1993, the original holding company (formerly known as HEICO Corporation) was renamed as HEICO Aerospace Corporation and a new holding corporation known as HEICO Corporation was created. The reorganization did not result in any change in the business of the Company, its consolidated assets or liabilities or the relative interests of its shareholders. 

Our business is comprised of two operating segments: 

The Flight Support Group . Our Flight Support Group (&#8220;FSG&#8221;), consisting of HEICO Aerospace Holdings Corp. and HEICO Flight Support Corp. and their collective subsidiaries, accounted for 64%, 68% and 67% of our net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Flight Support Group uses proprietary technology to design and manufacture jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts for sale at lower prices than those manufactured by OEMs. These parts are approved by the FAA and are the functional equivalent of parts sold by OEMs. In addition, the Flight Support Group repairs, overhauls and distributes jet engine and aircraft components, avionics and instruments for domestic and foreign commercial air carriers and aircraft repair companies as well as military and business aircraft operators; and manufactures thermal insulation products, complex composite assemblies and other component parts primarily for aerospace, defense, industrial and commercial applications. 

The Electronic Technologies Group . Our Electronic Technologies Group (&#8220;ETG&#8221;), consisting of HEICO Electronic Technologies Corp. and its subsidiaries, accounted for 36%, 32% and 33% of our net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Through our Electronic Technologies Group, which derived approximately 65%, 56% and 55% of its net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, from the sale of products and services to United States ("U.S.") and foreign military agencies, prime defense contractors and both commercial and defense satellite and spacecraft manufacturers, we design, manufacture and sell various types of electronic, microwave and electro-optical products, including infrared simulation and test equipment, laser rangefinder receivers, electrical power supplies, back-up power supplies, power conversion products, underwater locator beacons, electromagnetic interference and radio frequency interference shielding, high power capacitor charging power supplies, amplifiers, 

traveling wave tube amplifiers, photodetectors, amplifier modules, microwave power modules, flash lamp drivers, laser diode drivers, arc lamp power supplies, custom power supply designs, cable assemblies, high voltage power supplies, high voltage interconnection devices and wire, high voltage energy generators, high frequency power delivery systems, three-dimensional microelectronic and stacked memory products, harsh environment electronic connectors and other interconnect products, RF and microwave amplifiers, transmitters and receivers, wireless cabin control systems, solid state power distribution and management systems, crashworthy and ballistically self-sealing auxiliary fuel systems, communications and electronic intercept receivers and tuners, fuel level sensing systems and high-speed interface products that link devices such as telemetry receivers, digital cameras, high resolution scanners, simulation systems and test systems to almost any computer. 

HEICO has continuously operated in the aerospace industry for nearly 60 years. Since assuming control in 1990, our current management has achieved significant sales and profit growth through a broadened line of product offerings, an expanded customer base, increased research and development expenditures and the completion of a number of acquisitions. As a result of internal growth and acquisitions, our net sales from continuing operations have grown from $26.2 million in fiscal 1990 to $1,376.3 million in fiscal 2016, a compound annual growth rate of approximately 16%. During the same period, we improved our net income from $2.0 million to $156.2 million, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 18%. 

Disciplined Acquisition Strategy 

Acquisitions have been an important element of our growth strategy over the past twenty-six years, supplementing our organic growth. Since 1990, we have completed approximately 62 acquisitions complementing the niche segments within which we operate of the aviation, defense, space, medical, telecommunications and electronics industries. We typically target acquisition opportunities that allow us to broaden our product offerings, services and technologies while expanding our customer base and geographic presence. Even though we have historically pursued an active acquisition policy, our disciplined acquisition strategy involves limiting acquisition candidates to businesses that we believe will continue to grow, offer strong earnings and cash flow potential, and are available at fair prices. See Note 2, Acquisitions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our recent acquisitions. 

Flight Support Group 

The Flight Support Group, headquartered in Hollywood, Florida, serves a broad spectrum of the aviation industry, including (i) commercial airlines and air cargo carriers; (ii) repair and overhaul facilities; (iii) OEMs; and (iv) U.S. and foreign governments. 

The Flight Support Group competes with the leading industry OEMs and, to a lesser extent, with a number of smaller, independent parts distributors. Historically, the three principal jet engine OEMs, General Electric (including CFM International), Pratt &#38; Whitney and Rolls Royce, have been the sole source of substantially all jet engine replacement parts for their jet 

engines. Other OEMs have been the sole source of replacement parts for their aircraft component parts. While we believe that we currently supply approximately 2% of the market for jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts, we have in recent years been adding new products to our line at a rate of approximately 300 to 500 Parts Manufacturer Approvals (&#8220;PMA&#8221; or &#8220;PMAs&#8221;) per year. We have developed for our customers approximately 10,000 parts for which PMAs have been received from the FAA. 

Jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts can be categorized by their ongoing ability to be repaired and returned to service. The general categories in which we participate are as follows: (i) rotable; (ii) repairable; and (iii) expendable. A rotable is a part which is removed periodically as dictated by an operator&#8217;s maintenance procedures or on an as needed basis and is typically repaired or overhauled and re-used an indefinite number of times. An important subset of rotables is &#8220;life limited&#8221; parts. A life limited rotable has a designated number of allowable flight hours and/or cycles (one take-off and landing generally constitutes one cycle) after which it is rendered unusable. A repairable is similar to a rotable except that it can only be repaired a limited number of times before it must be discarded. An expendable is generally a part which is used and not thereafter repaired for further use. 

Jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts are classified within the industry as (i) factory-new; (ii) new surplus; (iii) overhauled; (iv) repairable; and (v) as removed. A factory-new or new surplus part is one that has never been installed or used. Factory-new parts are purchased from FAA-approved manufacturers (such as HEICO or OEMs) or their authorized distributors. New surplus parts are purchased from excess stock of airlines, repair facilities or other redistributors. An overhauled part is one that has been completely repaired and inspected by a licensed repair facility such as ours. An aircraft spare part is classified as &#8220;repairable&#8221; if it can be repaired by a licensed repair facility under applicable regulations. A part may also be classified as &#8220;repairable&#8221; if it can be removed by the operator from an aircraft or jet engine while operating under an approved maintenance program and is airworthy and meets any manufacturer or time and cycle restrictions applicable to the part. A &#8220;factory-new,&#8221; &#8220;new surplus&#8221; or &#8220;overhauled&#8221; part designation indicates that the part can be immediately utilized on an aircraft. A part in &#8220;as removed&#8221; or &#8220;repairable&#8221; condition requires inspection and possibly functional testing, repair or overhaul by a licensed facility prior to being returned to service in an aircraft. 

Factory-New Jet Engine and Aircraft Component Replacement Parts . The Flight Support Group engages in the research and development, design, manufacture and sale of FAA-approved replacement parts that are sold to domestic and foreign commercial air carriers and aircraft repair and overhaul companies. Our principal competitors are aircraft engine and aircraft component manufacturers. The Flight Support Group&#8217;s factory-new replacement parts include various jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts. A key element of our growth strategy is the continued design and development of an increasing number of PMA replacement parts in order to further penetrate our existing customer base and obtain new customers. We select the jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts to design and manufacture through a selection process which analyzes industry information to determine which replacement parts are suitable candidates. 

Repair and Overhaul Services . The Flight Support Group provides repair and overhaul services on selected jet engine and aircraft component parts, as well as on avionics, instruments, composites and flight surfaces of commercial aircraft operated by domestic and foreign commercial airlines. The Flight Support Group also provides repair and overhaul services including avionics and navigation systems as well as subcomponents and other instruments utilized on military aircraft operated by the U.S. government and foreign military agencies and for aircraft repair and overhaul companies. Our repair and overhaul operations require a high level of expertise, advanced technology and sophisticated equipment. Services include the repair, refurbishment and overhaul of numerous accessories and parts mounted on gas turbine engines and airframes. Components overhauled include fuel pumps, generators, fuel controls, pneumatic valves, starters and actuators, turbo compressors and constant speed drives, hydraulic pumps, valves and actuators, wheels and brakes, composite flight controls, electro-mechanical equipment, auxiliary power unit accessories and thrust reverse actuation systems. Some of the repair and overhaul services provided by the Flight Support Group are proprietary repairs approved by an FAA-qualified designated engineering representative (&#8220;DER&#8221;). Such FAA-approved repairs (DER-approved repairs) typically create cost savings or provide engineering flexibility. The Flight Support Group also provides commercial airlines, regional operators, asset management companies and Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (&#8220;MRO&#8221;) providers with high quality and cost effective niche accessory component exchange services as an alternative to OEMs&#8217; spares services. 

Distribution . The Flight Support Group distributes FAA-approved parts including hydraulic, pneumatic, structural, mechanical and electro-mechanical components for the commercial, regional and general aviation markets. The Flight Support Group also is a leading supplier, distributor, and integrator of military aircraft parts and support services primarily to foreign military organizations allied with the U.S. Further, we believe the Flight Support Group is a leading provider of products and services necessary to maintain up-to-date F-16 fighter aircraft operational capabilities. 

Manufacture of Specialty Aircraft/Defense Related Parts and Subcontracting for OEMs . The Flight Support Group engineers, designs and manufactures thermal insulation blankets and parts as well as renewable/reusable insulation systems primarily for aerospace, defense, commercial and industrial applications. The Flight Support Group also manufactures specialty components for sale as a subcontractor for aerospace and industrial original equipment manufacturers and the U.S. government. Additionally, the Flight Support Group manufactures advanced niche components and complex composite assemblies for commercial aviation, defense and space applications and manufactures expanded foil mesh, which is integrated into composite aerospace structures for lighting strike protection in fixed and rotary wing aircraft. 

FAA Approvals and Product Design . Non-OEM manufacturers of jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts must receive a PMA from the FAA to sell the replacement part. The PMA approval process includes the submission of sample parts, drawings and testing data to one of the FAA&#8217;s Aircraft Certification Offices where the submitted data are analyzed. We believe that an applicant&#8217;s ability to successfully complete the PMA process is limited by several factors, including (i) the agency&#8217;s confidence level in the applicant; (ii) the 

complexity of the part; (iii) the volume of PMAs being filed; and (iv) the resources available to the FAA. We also believe that companies such as HEICO that have demonstrated their advanced design engineering and manufacturing capabilities, including an established favorable track record with the FAA, generally receive a faster turnaround time in the processing of PMA applications. Finally, we believe that the PMA process creates a significant barrier to entry in this market niche through both its technical demands and its limits on the rate at which competitors can bring products to market. 

As part of our growth strategy, we have continued to increase our research and development activities. Research and development expenditures by the Flight Support Group, which were approximately $.3 million in fiscal 1991, increased to approximately $17.4 million in fiscal 2016, $17.7 million in fiscal 2015 and $16.1 million in fiscal 2014. We believe that our Flight Support Group&#8217;s research and development capabilities are a significant component of our historical success and an integral part of our growth strategy. In recent years, the FAA granted us PMAs for approximately 300 to 500 new parts and approximately 300 to 400 new DER-approved repairs per year; however, no assurance can be given that the FAA will continue to grant PMAs or DER-approved repairs or that we will achieve acceptable levels of net sales and gross profits on such parts or repairs in the future. 

We benefit from our proprietary rights relating to certain design, engineering and manufacturing processes and repair and overhaul procedures. Customers often rely on us to provide initial and additional components, as well as to redesign, re-engineer, replace or repair and provide overhaul services on such aircraft components at every stage of their useful lives. In addition, for some products, our unique manufacturing capabilities are required by the customer&#8217;s specifications or designs, thereby necessitating reliance on us for production of such designed products. 

We have no material patents for the proprietary techniques, including software and manufacturing expertise, we have developed to manufacture jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts and instead, we primarily rely on trade secret protection. Although our proprietary techniques and software and manufacturing expertise are subject to misappropriation or obsolescence, we believe that we take appropriate measures to prevent misappropriation or obsolescence from occurring by developing new techniques and improving existing methods and processes, which we will continue on an ongoing basis as dictated by the technological needs of our business. 

We believe that, based on our competitive pricing, reputation for high quality, short lead time requirements, strong relationships with domestic and foreign commercial air carriers and repair stations (companies that overhaul aircraft engines and/or components), and successful track record of receiving PMAs and DER-approved repairs from the FAA, we are uniquely positioned to continue to increase the products and services offered and gain market share. 

Electronic Technologies Group 

Our Electronic Technologies Group&#8217;s strategy is to design and produce mission-critical subcomponents for smaller, niche markets, but which are utilized in larger systems &#8211; systems like power, targeting, tracking, identification, simulation, testing, communications, lighting, surgical, medical imaging, baggage scanning, telecom and computer systems. These systems are, in turn, often located on another platform, such as aircraft, rotorcraft, satellites, ships, spacecrafts, land vehicles, handheld devices and other platforms. 

Electro-Optical Infrared Simulation and Test Equipment . The Electronic Technologies Group believes it is a leading international designer and manufacturer of niche state-of-the-art simulation, testing and calibration equipment used in the development of missile seeking technology, airborne targeting and reconnaissance systems, shipboard targeting and reconnaissance systems, space-based sensors as well as ground vehicle-based systems. These products include infrared scene projector equipment, such as our MIRAGE IR Scene Simulator, high precision blackbody sources, software and integrated calibration systems. 

Simulation equipment allows the U.S. government and allied foreign military to save money on missile testing as it allows infrared-based missiles to be tested on a multi-axis, rotating table instead of requiring the launch of a complete missile. In addition, several large military prime contractors have elected to purchase such equipment from us instead of maintaining internal staff to do so because we can offer a more cost-effective solution. Our customers include major U.S. Department of Defense weapons laboratories and defense prime contractors. 

Electro-Optical Laser Products . The Electronic Technologies Group believes it is a leading designer and maker of Laser Rangefinder Receivers and other photodetectors used in airborne, vehicular and handheld targeting systems manufactured by major prime military contractors. Most of our Rangefinder Receiver product offering consists of complex and patented products which detect reflected light from laser targeting systems and allow the systems to confirm target accuracy and calculate target distances prior to discharging a weapon system. Some of these products are also used in laser eye surgery systems for tracking ocular movement. 

Electro-Optical, Microwave and Other Power Equipment . The Electronic Technologies Group produces power supplies, amplifiers and flash lamp drivers used in laser systems for military, medical and other applications that are sometimes utilized with our rangefinder receivers. We also produce emergency back-up power supplies and batteries used on commercial aircraft and business jets for services such as emergency exit lighting, emergency fuel shut-off, power door assists, cockpit voice recorders and flight computers. We also design and manufacture next generation wireless cabin control systems, solid state power distribution and management systems and fuel level sensing systems for business jets and for general aviation, as well as for the military/defense market. We offer custom or standard designs that solve challenging OEM requirements and meet stringent safety and emissions requirements. Our power electronics products include capacitor charger power supplies, laser diode drivers, arc lamp power supplies and custom power supply designs. 

Our microwave products are used in both commercial and military satellites, spacecrafts and in electronic warfare systems. These products, which include isolators, bias tees, circulators, latching ferrite switches and waveguide adapters are used in satellites and spacecrafts to control or direct energy according to operator needs. As satellites are frequently used as sensors for stand-off warfare, we believe this product line further supports our goal of increasing our activity in the stand-off market. Additionally, our microwave products include converters, receivers, transmitters, amplifiers, frequency sources and related sub-systems that address the majority of major satellite frequencies. We believe we are a leading supplier of the niche products which we design and manufacture for this market, a market that includes commercial satellites. Our customers for these products include satellite and spacecraft manufacturers. 

Electromagnetic and Radio Interference Shielding . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures shielding used to prevent electromagnetic energy and radio frequencies from interfering with other devices, such as computers, telecommunication devices, avionics, weapons systems and other electronic equipment. Our products include a patented line of shielding applied directly to circuit boards and a line of gasket-type shielding applied to computers and other electronic equipment. Our customers consist essentially of medical, electronics, telecommunications and defense equipment producers. 

High-Speed Interface Products . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures advanced high-technology, high-speed interface products utilized in homeland security, defense, medical research, astronomical and other applications across numerous industries. 

High Voltage Interconnection Devices . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures high and very high voltage interconnection devices, cable assemblies and wire for the medical equipment, defense and other industrial markets. Among others, our products are utilized in aircraft missile defense, fighter pilot helmet displays, avionic systems, medical applications, wireless communications, and industrial applications including high voltage test equipment and underwater monitoring systems. 

High Voltage Advanced Power Electronics . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures a patented line of high voltage energy generators for medical, baggage inspection and industrial imaging systems. We also produce high voltage power supplies found in satellite communications, CT scanners and in medical and industrial x-ray systems. 

Power Conversion Products . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and provides innovative power conversion products principally serving the high-reliability military, space and commercial avionics end-markets. These high density, low profile and lightweight DC-to-DC converters and electromagnetic interference filters, which include thick film hermetically sealed hybrids, military commercial-off-the-shelf and custom designed and assembled products, have become the primary specified components of their kind on a generation of complex military, space and avionics equipment. 

Underwater Locator Beacons . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures Underwater Locator Beacons (&#8220;ULBs&#8221;) used to locate aircraft Cockpit Voice Recorders and Flight Data Recorders, marine ship Voyage Recorders and various other devices which have been submerged under water. ULBs are required equipment on all U.S. FAA and European Aviation Safety Agency (&#8220;EASA&#8221;) approved Flight Data and Cockpit Voice Recorders used in aircraft and on similar systems utilized on large marine shipping vessels. 

Traveling Wave Tube Amplifiers (&#8220;TWTAs&#8221;) and Microwave Power Modules (&#8220;MPMs&#8221;) . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures TWTAs and MPMs predominately used in radar, electronic warfare, on-board jamming and countermeasure systems in aircraft, ships and detection platforms deployed by U.S. and allied non-U.S. military forces. 

Three-Dimensional Microelectronic and Stacked Memory Products . The Electronic Technologies Group designs, manufactures and markets three-dimensional microelectronic and stacked memory products including memories, Point of Load (&#8220;POL&#8221;) voltage converters and peripherals, industrial memories, and complex System-in-Package (&#8220;SiP&#8221;) solutions. The products&#8217; patented designs provide high reliability memory and circuitry in a unique and stacked form which saves space and weight. These products are principally integrated into larger subsystems equipping satellites and spacecraft and are also utilized in medical equipment. 

Harsh environment connectivity products and custom molded cable assemblies . The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures high performance, high reliability and harsh environment electronic connectors and other interconnect products. These products include connectors, jacks and plugs, cables, patch panels and switches utilized in aviation, broadcast/audio, defense, industrial, medical and other equipment. 

RF and microwave amplifiers, transmitters and receivers. The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures RF and microwave amplifiers, transmitters and receivers to support military communications on unmanned aerial systems, other aircraft, helicopters and ground-based data/communications systems. 

High performance communications and electronic intercept receivers and tuners. The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures innovative, high performance receiver and radio frequency digitizer products for military and intelligence applications. 

Crashworthy and ballistically self-sealing auxiliary fuel systems. The Electronic Technologies Group designs and manufactures mission-extending, crashworthy and ballistically self-sealing auxiliary fuel systems for military rotorcraft. 

As part of our growth strategy, we have continued to invest in our research and development activities. Research and development expenditures by the Electronic Technologies Group were $27.3 million in fiscal 2016, $21.0 million in fiscal 2015 and $21.3 million in fiscal 2014. We believe that our Electronic Technologies Group&#8217;s research and development capabilities are a significant component of our historical success and an integral part of our growth strategy. 

Financial Information About Operating Segments and Geographic Areas 

See Note 14, Operating Segments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by operating segment and by geographic areas. 

Distribution, Sales, Marketing and Customers 

Each of our operating segments independently conducts distribution, sales and marketing efforts directed at their respective customers and industries and, in some cases, collaborates with other operating divisions and subsidiaries within its group for cross-marketing efforts. Sales and marketing efforts are conducted primarily by in-house personnel and, to a lesser extent, by independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives. Generally, the in-house sales personnel receive a base salary plus commission and manufacturers&#8217; representatives receive a commission on sales. 

We believe that direct relationships are crucial to establishing and maintaining a strong customer base and, accordingly, our senior management is actively involved in our marketing activities, particularly with established customers. We are also a member of various trade and business organizations related to the commercial aviation industry, such as the Aerospace Industries Association, which we refer to as AIA, the leading trade association representing the nation&#8217;s manufacturers of commercial, military and business aircraft, aircraft engines and related components and equipment. Due in large part to our established industry presence, we enjoy strong customer relations, name recognition and repeat business. 

We sell our products to a broad customer base consisting of domestic and foreign commercial and cargo airlines, repair and overhaul facilities, other aftermarket suppliers of aircraft engine and airframe materials, OEMs, domestic and foreign military units, electronic manufacturing services companies, manufacturers for the defense industry as well as medical, telecommunications, scientific, and industrial companies. No one customer accounted for sales of 10% or more of total consolidated sales from continuing operations during any of the last three fiscal years. Net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 21%, 17% and 17% of total net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Competition 

The aerospace product and service industry is characterized by intense competition. Some of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition, inventories, complementary product and service offerings, financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, such competitors may be able to respond more quickly to customer requirements than we can. Moreover, smaller competitors may be in a position to offer more attractive pricing as a result of lower labor costs and other factors. 

Our jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts business competes primarily with aircraft engine and aircraft component manufacturers. The competition is principally based on price and service to the extent that our parts are interchangeable. With respect to other aerospace products and services sold by the Flight Support Group, we compete with both the leading jet engine and aircraft component OEMs and a large number of machining, fabrication, 

distribution and repair companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Competition is based mainly on price, product performance, service and technical capability. 

Competition for the repair and overhaul of jet engine and aircraft components comes from three principal sources: OEMs, major commercial airlines and other independent service companies. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Some major commercial airlines own and operate their own service centers and sell repair and overhaul services to other aircraft operators. Foreign airlines that provide repair and overhaul services typically provide these services for their own aircraft components and for third parties. OEMs also maintain service centers that provide repair and overhaul services for the components they manufacture. Other independent service organizations also compete for the repair and overhaul business of other users of aircraft components. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the repair and overhaul market are quality, turnaround time, overall customer service and price. 

Our Electronic Technologies Group competes with several large and small domestic and foreign competitors, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. The markets for our electronic products are niche markets with several competitors where competition is based mainly on design, technology, quality, price, service and customer satisfaction. 

Raw Materials 

We purchase a variety of raw materials, primarily consisting of high temperature alloy sheet metal and castings, forgings, pre-plated metals and electrical components from various vendors. The materials used by our operations are generally available from a number of sources and in sufficient quantities to meet current requirements subject to normal lead times. We are subject to rules promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding the use of certain materials (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These rules may impose additional costs and may introduce new risks related to our ability to verify the origin of any conflict minerals used in our products. 

Backlog 

Our total backlog of unshipped orders was $497 million as of October 31, 2016 as compared to $349 million as of October 31, 2015. The majority of our backlog of orders as of October 31, 2016 is expected to be delivered during fiscal 2017. The Flight Support Group&#8217;s backlog of unshipped orders was $212 million as of October 31, 2016 as compared to $186 million as of October 31, 2015. This backlog excludes forecasted shipments for certain contracts of the Flight Support Group pursuant to which customers provide only estimated annual usage and not firm purchase orders. Our backlogs within the Flight Support Group are typically short-lead in nature with many product orders being received within the month of shipment. The 

increase in the Flight Support Group's backlog is principally related to a multi-year contract at one of our businesses that is a distributor of aerospace parts to the commercial aerospace, OEM and MRO market. The Electronic Technologies Group&#8217;s backlog of unshipped orders was $285 million as of October 31, 2016 as compared to $163 million as of October 31, 2015. The increase in the Electronic Technologies Group's backlog is principally related to the backlog of a business acquired during fiscal 2016. Additionally, the Electronic Technologies Group's increase also reflects increased orders at one of our businesses that designs and manufacturers high performance, high reliability microwave modules, units, and integrated sub-systems for commercial and military satellites and at a subsidiary that designs and manufactures three-dimensional microelectronic and stacked memory products. 

Government Regulation 

The FAA regulates the manufacture, repair and operation of all aircraft and aircraft parts operated in the United States. Its regulations are designed to ensure that all aircraft and aviation equipment are continuously maintained in proper condition to ensure safe operation of the aircraft. Similar rules apply in other countries. All aircraft must be maintained under a continuous condition monitoring program and must periodically undergo thorough inspection and maintenance. The inspection, maintenance and repair procedures for the various types of aircraft and equipment are prescribed by regulatory authorities and can be performed only by certified repair facilities utilizing certified technicians. Certification and conformance is required prior to installation of a part on an aircraft. Aircraft operators must maintain logs concerning the utilization and condition of aircraft engines, life-limited engine parts and airframes. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft engines, some engine parts, and airframes at regular intervals based on cycles or flight time. Engine maintenance must also be performed upon the occurrence of certain events, such as foreign object damage in an aircraft engine or the replacement of life-limited engine parts. Such maintenance usually requires that an aircraft engine be taken out of service. Our operations may in the future be subject to new and more stringent regulatory requirements. In that regard, we closely monitor the FAA and industry trade groups in an attempt to understand how possible future regulations might impact us. Our businesses which sell defense products directly to the U.S. Government or for use in systems delivered to the U.S. Government can be subject to various laws and regulations governing pricing and other factors. 

There has been no material adverse effect to our consolidated financial statements as a result of these government regulations. 

Environmental Regulation 

Our operations are subject to extensive, and frequently changing, federal, state and local environmental laws and substantial related regulation by government agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency. Among other matters, these regulatory authorities impose requirements that regulate the operation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; protect the health and safety of workers; and require us to obtain and maintain licenses and permits in connection with our operations. This extensive regulatory framework imposes 

significant compliance burdens and risks on us. Notwithstanding these burdens, we believe that we are in material compliance with all federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing our operations. 

There has been no material adverse effect to our consolidated financial statements as a result of these environmental regulations. 

Other Regulation 

We are also subject to a variety of other regulations including work-related and community safety laws. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 mandates general requirements for safe workplaces for all employees and established the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;) in the Department of Labor. In particular, OSHA provides special procedures and measures for the handling of certain hazardous and toxic substances. In addition, specific safety standards have been promulgated for workplaces engaged in the treatment, disposal or storage of hazardous waste. Requirements under state law, in some circumstances, may mandate additional measures for facilities handling materials specified as extremely dangerous. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with OSHA&#8217;s health and safety requirements. 

Insurance 

We are a named insured under policies which include the following coverage: (i) product liability, including grounding; (ii) personal property, inventory and business interruption at our facilities; (iii) general liability coverage; (iv) employee benefit liability; (v) international liability and automobile liability; (vi) umbrella liability coverage; and (vii) various other activities or items, each subject to certain limits and deductibles. We believe that our insurance coverage is adequate to insure against the various liability risks of our business. 

Employees 

As of October 31, 2016, we had approximately 4,700 full-time and part-time employees including approximately 2,900 in the Flight Support Group and approximately 1,800 in the Electronic Technologies Group. None of our employees are represented by a U.S. domestic union. Our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. 

Available Information 

Our Internet website address is http://www.heico.com. We make available free of charge, through the Investors section of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, specialized disclosure reports on Form SD and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These materials are also available free of charge on the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov. The 

information on or obtainable through our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. 

We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and other persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Other Officers is part of our Code of Business Conduct, which is located on our website at http://www.heico.com. Any amendments to or waivers from a provision of this code of ethics will be posted on the website. Also located on the website are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Finance/Audit Committee Charter, Nominating &#38; Corporate Governance Committee Charter, and Compensation Committee Charter. 

Copies of the above referenced materials will be made available, free of charge, upon written request to the Corporate Secretary at the Company&#8217;s headquarters. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Our executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board. The following table sets forth the names, ages of, and positions and offices held by our executive officers as of December 13, 2016: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position(s) 

&#160; 

Director 

Since 

Laurans A. Mendelson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer; and Director 

&#160; 

Eric A. Mendelson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Co-President and Director; President and Chief Executive Officer of the HEICO Flight Support Group 

&#160; 

Victor H. Mendelson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Co-President and Director; President and Chief Executive Officer of the HEICO Electronic Technologies Group 

&#160; 

Thomas S. Irwin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Executive Vice President 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Carlos L. Macau, Jr. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Steven M. Walker 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Accounting Officer and Assistant Treasurer 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Laurans A. Mendelson &#32;has served as our Chairman of the Board since December 1990. He has also served as our Chief Executive Officer since February 1990 and served as our President from September 1991 through September 2009. Mr. Mendelson has served on the Board of Governors of the Aerospace Industries Association (&#8220;AIA&#8221;) in Washington D.C., of which HEICO is a member. He is the former Chairman of the Board of Trustees, former Chairman of the Executive Committee and a current member of the Society of Mount Sinai Founders of Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach, Florida. In addition, Mr. Mendelson is a Trustee Emeritus of Columbia University in The City of New York, where he previously served as Trustee and Chairman of the Trustees&#8217; Audit Committee. Laurans Mendelson is the father of Eric Mendelson and Victor Mendelson. 

Eric A. Mendelson &#32;has served as our Co-President since October 2009 and served as our Executive Vice President from 2001 through September 2009. Mr. Mendelson has also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the HEICO Flight Support Group since its formation in 1993, as well as President of various Flight Support Group subsidiaries. Mr. Mendelson is a co-founder, and, since 1987, has been Managing Director of Mendelson International Corporation, a private investment company, which is a shareholder of HEICO. In addition, Mr. Mendelson is a member of the Advisory Board of Trustees of Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach, Florida and is a Trustee and Immediate Past Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Ransom Everglades School in Coconut Grove, Florida, as well as a member of the Board of Visitors of the Columbia College in New York City. Eric Mendelson is the son of Laurans Mendelson and the brother of Victor Mendelson. 

Victor H. Mendelson &#32;has served as our Co-President since October 2009 and served as our Executive Vice President from 2001 through September 2009. Mr. Mendelson has also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the HEICO Electronic Technologies Group since its formation in September 1996. He served as our General Counsel from 1993 to 2008 and our Vice President from 1996 to 2001. In addition, Mr. Mendelson was the Chief Operating Officer of our former MediTek Health Corporation subsidiary from 1995 until its profitable sale in 1996. Mr. Mendelson is a co-founder, and, since 1987, has been President of Mendelson International Corporation, a private investment company, which is a shareholder of HEICO. Mr. Mendelson has served as a Director and Audit Committee member of NASDAQ-listed Terrapin 3 Acquisition Corp. since July 2014. Mr. Mendelson is Chairman of the Board of Visitors of Columbia College in New York City, a Trustee of St. Thomas University in Miami Gardens, Florida, a Director of Boys &#38; Girls Clubs of Miami-Dade and is a Director and Past President of the Board of Directors of the Florida Grand Opera. Victor Mendelson is the son of Laurans Mendelson and the brother of Eric Mendelson. 

Thomas S. Irwin &#32;has served as our Senior Executive Vice President since June 2012; our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from September 1991 through May 2012; Senior Vice President and Treasurer from 1986 to 1991; and our Vice President and Treasurer from 1982 to 1986. Mr. Irwin is a Certified Public Accountant. He is a Trustee of the Greater Hollywood Chamber of Commerce and a member of Financial Executives International. 

Carlos L. Macau, Jr. has served as our Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since June 2012. Mr. Macau joined HEICO from the international public accounting firm of Deloitte &#38; Touche LLP where he worked from 2000 to 2012 as an Audit Partner. Prior to joining HEICO, Mr. Macau accumulated 22 years of financial and accounting experience serving a number of public and private manufacturing and service clients in a broad range of industries. His client responsibilities included serving as HEICO's lead client services partner for five years (2006 to 2010). Mr. Macau is a current member of the Mount Sinai Founders of Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach, Florida. Mr. Macau is a Certified Public Accountant, a Chartered Global Management Accountant, and a member of the American and Florida Institutes of Certified Public Accountants. 

Steven M. Walker &#32;has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since June 2012 and served as our Corporate Controller from 2002 through May 2012. He has also served as our Assistant Treasurer since 2002. Mr. Walker is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 

