 Item 1. 

Business 

OVERVIEW 

Holly Energy Partners, L.P. (&#8220;HEP&#8221;) is a Delaware limited partnership engaged principally in the business of operating a system of petroleum product and crude pipelines, storage tanks, distribution terminals and loading rack facilities in West Texas, New Mexico, Utah, Nevada, Oklahoma, Wyoming, Kansas, Arizona, Idaho and Washington. We were formed in Delaware in 2004 and maintain our principal corporate offices at 2828 N. Harwood, Suite 1300, Dallas, Texas 75201-1507. Our telephone number is 214-871-3555 and our internet website address is www.hollyenergy.com . The information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be provided without charge upon written request to the Vice President, Investor Relations at the above address. A direct link to our filings at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) website is available on our website on the Investors page. Also available on our website are copies of our Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, all of which will be provided without charge upon written request to the Vice President, Investor Relations at the above address. In this document, the words &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;ours&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; refer to HEP and its consolidated subsidiaries or to HEP or an individual subsidiary and not to any other person. &#8220;HFC&#8221; refers to HollyFrontier Corporation and its subsidiaries, other than HEP and its subsidiaries and other than Holly Logistic Services, L.L.C. (&#8220;HLS&#8221;), a subsidiary of HollyFrontier Corporation that is the general partner of the general partner of HEP and manages HEP. 

We own and operate petroleum product and crude pipelines, terminal, tankage and loading rack facilities, and refinery processing units that support the refining and marketing operations of HFC in the Mid-Continent, Southwest and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States and Alon USA, Inc.&#8217;s (&#8220;Alon&#8221;) refinery in Big Spring, Texas. HFC owns a 39% &#32;interest in us, including the 2% general partner interest and a 37% limited partnership interest. Additionally, we own a 75% interest in UNEV Pipeline, LLC (&#8220;UNEV&#8221;), the owner of a pipeline running from Woods Cross, Utah to Las Vegas, Nevada (the &#8220;UNEV Pipeline&#8221;) and associated product terminals, a 50% interest in Osage Pipe Line Company, LLC, the owner of a pipeline running from Cushing, Oklahoma to El Dorado, Kansas ("Osage Pipeline"), a 50% interest in Frontier Pipeline Company, the owner of a pipeline running from Casper, Wyoming to Frontier Station, Utah (the "Frontier Pipeline"), and a 25% interest in SLC Pipeline, LLC, the owner of a pipeline (the &#8220;SLC Pipeline&#8221;) that serves refineries in the Salt Lake City, Utah area. 

We generate revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through our pipelines, by charging fees for terminalling and storing refined products and other hydrocarbons, and providing other services at our storage tanks, terminals and refinery processing units. We do not take ownership of products that we transport, terminal, store or refine and therefore, we are not directly exposed to changes in commodity prices. 

Our assets include: 

Pipelines: 

&#8226; 

approximately 810 miles of refined product pipelines, including 340 miles of leased pipelines, that transport gasoline, diesel and jet fuel principally from HFC&#8217;s Navajo refinery in New Mexico to its customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and northern Mexico; 

&#8226; 

approximately 510 miles of refined product pipelines that transport refined products from Alon&#8217;s Big Spring refinery in Texas to its customers in Texas and Oklahoma; 

&#8226; 

two 65-mile intermediate pipelines that transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from HFC&#8217;s Navajo refinery crude oil distillation and vacuum facilities in Lovington, New Mexico to its petroleum refinery facilities in Artesia, New Mexico; 

&#8226; 

one 65-mile pipeline that is used for the shipment of crude oil from the gathering systems in Barnsdall and Beeson, New Mexico to the Navajo refinery Artesia and Lovington facilities; 

&#8226; 

approximately 940 miles of crude oil trunk, gathering and connection pipelines located in West Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma that primarily deliver crude oil to HFC&#8217;s Navajo refinery; 

&#8226; 

approximately 8 miles of refined product pipelines that support HFC&#8217;s Woods Cross refinery located near Salt Lake City, Utah; 

&#8226; 

gasoline and diesel connecting pipelines located at HFC&#8217;s Tulsa East refinery facility; 

&#8226; 

five intermediate product and gas pipelines between HFC&#8217;s Tulsa East and West refinery facilities; 

&#8226; 

crude receiving assets located at HFC&#8217;s Cheyenne refinery; 

&#8226; 

a 75% interest in the UNEV Pipeline, a 427-mile, 12-inch refined products pipeline running from Woods Cross, Utah to Las Vegas, Nevada; 

- 5 &#32;- 

&#8226; 

a 50% interest in the Osage Pipeline, a 135-mile crude oil pipeline running from Cushing, Oklahoma to El Dorado, Kansas; 

&#8226; 

a 50% interest in Frontier Pipeline, a 289-mile crude oil pipeline running from Casper, Wyoming to Frontier Station, Utah through a connection to the SLC Pipeline; and 

&#8226; 

a 25% interest in the SLC Pipeline, a 95-mile intrastate crude oil pipeline system that transports crude oil into the Salt Lake City, Utah area from the Utah terminus of the Frontier Pipeline, as well as crude oil flowing from Wyoming and Utah via Plains All American Pipeline, L. P.&#8217;s (&#8220;Plains&#8221;) Rocky Mountain Pipeline. 

Refined Product Terminals and Refinery Tankage: 

&#8226; 

three refined product terminals located in Moriarty and Bloomfield, New Mexico; and Tucson, Arizona, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 600,000 barrels, that are integrated with our refined product pipeline system that serves HFC&#8217;s Navajo refinery; 

&#8226; 

one refined product terminal located in Spokane, Washington, with a capacity of approximately 400,000 barrels, that serves third-party common carrier pipelines; 

&#8226; 

one refined product terminal near Mountain Home, Idaho with a capacity of approximately 120,000 barrels, that serves a nearby United States Air Force Base; 

&#8226; 

two refined product terminals, located in Wichita Falls and Abilene, Texas, and one tank farm in Orla, Texas with aggregate capacity of approximately 500,000 barrels, that are integrated with our refined product pipelines that serve Alon&#8217;s Big Spring refinery; 

&#8226; 

a refined product loading rack facility at each of HFC&#8217;s refineries, heavy product / asphalt loading rack facilities at HFC&#8217;s Navajo refinery Lovington facility, Tulsa refinery East facility and the Cheyenne refinery, liquefied petroleum gas (&#8220;LPG&#8221;) loading rack facilities at HFC&#8217;s Tulsa refinery West facility, Cheyenne refinery and El Dorado refinery, lube oil loading racks at HFC&#8217;s Tulsa refinery West facility and crude oil Leased Automatic Custody Transfer (&#8220;LACT&#8221;) units located at HFC&#8217;s Cheyenne refinery; 

&#8226; 

on-site crude oil tankage at HFC&#8217;s Navajo, Woods Cross, Tulsa, and Cheyenne refineries having an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 1,350,000 barrels; 

&#8226; 

on-site refined and intermediate product tankage at HFC&#8217;s Tulsa, Cheyenne and El Dorado refineries having an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 8,800,000 barrels; 

&#8226; 

eleven crude oil tanks adjacent to HFC's El Dorado refinery with a capacity of approximately 1,200,000 barrels, that primarily serve the HFC El Dorado refinery; and 

&#8226; 

a 75% interest in UNEV Pipeline's product terminals near Cedar City, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada with an aggregate capacity of approximately 615,000 barrels. 

Refinery Processing Units: 

&#8226; 

a newly completed naphtha fractionation tower at HFC's El Dorado refinery, with a capacity of 50,000 barrels per day of desulfurized naphtha; and 

&#8226; 

a newly completed hydrogen generation unit at HFC's El Dorado refinery, with a capacity of 6,100 thousand standard cubic feet per day of natural gas. 

We have a long-term strategic relationship with HFC. Our growth plan is to continue to pursue purchases of logistic and other assets at HFC's existing refining locations in New Mexico, Utah, Oklahoma, Kansas and Wyoming. We also expect to work with HFC on logistic asset acquisitions in conjunction with HFC&#8217;s refinery acquisition strategies. Furthermore, we will continue to pursue third-party logistic asset acquisitions that are accretive to our unitholders and increase the diversity of our revenues. 

Acquisitions 

On March 6, 2015, we completed the acquisition of an existing crude tank farm adjacent to HFC's El Dorado Refinery from an unrelated third-party for $27.5 million &#32;in cash. Substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to properties and equipment and no goodwill was recorded. HFC is the main customer of this crude tank farm. 

On August 31, 2015, we purchased a 50% interest in Frontier Pipeline Company, which owns the Frontier Pipeline, from an affiliate of Enbridge, Inc. for cash consideration of $54.6 million. Frontier Pipeline will continue to be operated by an affiliate of Plains, which owns the remaining 50% interest. The Frontier Pipeline has a 72,000 barrel per day ("bpd") capacity and supplies Canadian and Rocky Mountain crudes to Salt Lake City area refiners through a connection to the SLC Pipeline. 

- 6 &#32;- 

On November 1, 2015, we acquired from HollyFrontier El Dorado Refining LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of HFC, all the outstanding membership interests in El Dorado Operating LLC ("El Dorado Operating"), which owns the newly constructed naphtha fractionation and hydrogen generation units at HFC&#8217;s El Dorado refinery for cash consideration of $62.0 million. In connection with this transaction, we entered into 15-year tolling agreements containing minimum quarterly throughput commitments from HFC that provide minimum annualized revenues of $15.3 million. 

We are a consolidated variable interest entity of HFC. Therefore, this transaction has been recorded as a transfer between entities under common control and reflects HFC's carrying basis in El Dorado Operating's assets and liabilities. Also, we have retrospectively adjusted our financial position as if El Dorado Operating were a consolidated subsidiary for all periods while we were under common control of HFC. This retrospective adjustment did not have an impact on our operating results prior to the year ended December 31, 2015 , since the hydrogen generation unit became operational in the third quarter of 2015 and the naphtha fractionation unit was not operational until the fourth quarter of 2015. 

On February 22, 2016, HFC obtained a 50% membership interest in Osage Pipe Line Company, LLC (&#8220;Osage&#8221;) in a non-monetary exchange for a 20-year terminalling services agreement, whereby, a subsidiary of Magellan Midstream Partners (&#8220;Magellan&#8221;) will provide terminalling services for all HFC products originating in Artesia, New Mexico that require terminalling in or through El Paso, Texas. Osage is the owner of the Osage pipeline, a 135-mile pipeline that transports crude oil from Cushing, Oklahoma to HFC&#8217;s El Dorado Refinery in Kansas and also has a connection to the Jayhawk pipeline that services the CHS refinery in McPherson, Kansas. The Osage pipeline is the primary pipeline that supplies HFC's El Dorado Refinery with crude oil. 

Concurrent with this transaction, we entered into a non-monetary exchange with HFC, whereby we received HFC&#8217;s interest in Osage in exchange for our El Paso terminal. Under this exchange, we have also agreed to build two connections on our south products pipeline system that will permit HFC access to Magellan&#8217;s El Paso terminal. Effective upon the closing of this exchange, we are the named operator of the Osage pipeline and are working to transition into that role. 

Agreements with HFC and Alon 

We serve HFC's refineries under long-term pipeline, terminal, tankage and refinery processing unit throughput agreements expiring from 2019 to 2030. Under these agreements, HFC agrees to transport, store, and process throughput volumes of refined products, crude oil and feedstocks on our pipelines, terminal, tankage, loading rack facilities and refinery processing units that result in minimum annual payments to us. These minimum annual payments or revenues are subject to annual rate adjustments on July 1st each year based on the Producer Price Index (&#8220;PPI&#8221;) or Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (&#8220;FERC&#8221;) index. As of December 31, 2015 , these agreements with HFC require minimum annualized payments to us of $257.6 million . 

If HFC fails to meet its minimum volume commitments under the agreements in any quarter, it will be required to pay us the amount of any shortfall in cash by the last day of the month following the end of the quarter. Under certain of the agreements, a shortfall payment may be applied as a credit in the following four quarters after minimum obligations are met. 

We have a pipelines and terminals agreement with Alon expiring in 2020 under which Alon has agreed to transport on our pipelines and throughput through our terminals volumes of refined products that result in a minimum level of annual revenue that also is subject to annual tariff rate adjustments. We also have a capacity lease agreement under which we lease Alon space on our Orla to El Paso pipeline for the shipment of refined product. The terms under this lease agreement expire beginning in 2018 through 2022. As of December 31, 2015 , these agreements with Alon require minimum annualized payments to us of $33.3 million . 

A significant reduction in revenues under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Furthermore, if new laws or regulations that affect terminals or pipelines are enacted that require us to make substantial and unanticipated capital expenditures at the pipelines or terminals, we will have the right after we have made efforts to mitigate their effects to negotiate a monthly surcharge on HFC for the use of the terminals or to file for an increased tariff rate for use of the pipelines to cover HFC&#8217;s pro rata portion of the cost of complying with these laws or regulations including a reasonable rate of return. In such instances, we will negotiate in good faith with HFC to agree on the level of the monthly surcharge or increased tariff rate. 

For additional information regarding our significant customers, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. 

Omnibus Agreement 

Under certain provisions of an omnibus agreement we have with HFC (the &#8220;Omnibus Agreement&#8221;), we pay HFC an annual administrative fee ( $2.4 million &#32;in 2015 and currently $2.5 million ) for the provision by HFC or its affiliates of various general and administrative services to us. This fee includes expenses incurred by HFC to perform centralized corporate functions, such 

- 7 &#32;- 

as executive management, legal, accounting, treasury, information technology and other corporate services, including the administration of employee benefit plans. This fee does not include the salaries of personnel employed by HFC who perform services for us on behalf of HLS or the cost of their employee benefits, which are separately charged to us by HFC. We also reimburse HFC and its affiliates for direct expenses they incur on our behalf. In addition, we also pay for our own direct general and administrative costs, including costs relating to operating as a separate publicly held entity, such as costs for preparation of partners&#8217; K-1 tax information, SEC filings, investor relations, directors&#8217; compensation, directors&#8217; and officers&#8217; insurance and registrar and transfer agent fees. 

Under HLS&#8217;s secondment agreement with HFC (the &#8220;Secondment Agreement&#8221;), certain employees of HFC are seconded to HLS, our ultimate general partner, to provide operational and maintenance services for certain of our processing, refining, pipeline and tankage assets at the El Dorado and Cheyenne refineries, and HLS reimburses HFC for its prorated portion of the wages, benefits, and other costs of these employees for our benefit. 

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

Our pipeline and terminalling operations are capital intensive, requiring investments to maintain, expand, upgrade or enhance existing operations and to meet environmental and operational regulations. Our capital requirements have consisted of, and are expected to continue to consist of, maintenance capital expenditures and expansion capital expenditures. &#8220;Maintenance capital expenditures&#8221; represent capital expenditures to replace partially or fully depreciated assets to maintain the operating capacity of existing assets. Maintenance capital expenditures include expenditures required to maintain equipment reliability, tankage and pipeline integrity, safety and to address environmental regulations. &#8220;Expansion capital expenditures&#8221; represent capital expenditures to expand the operating capacity of existing or new assets, whether through construction or acquisition. Expansion capital expenditures include expenditures to acquire assets, to grow our business and to expand existing facilities, such as projects that increase throughput capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals. Repair and maintenance expenses associated with existing assets that are minor in nature and do not extend the useful life of existing assets are charged to operating expenses as incurred. 

Each year the board of directors of HLS, our ultimate general partner, approves our annual capital budget, which specifies capital projects that our management is authorized to undertake. Additionally, at times when conditions warrant or as new opportunities arise, additional projects may be approved. The funds allocated for a particular capital project may be expended over a period in excess of a year, depending on the time required to complete the project. Therefore, our planned capital expenditures for a given year consist of expenditures approved for capital projects included in the current year's capital budget as well as, in certain cases, expenditures approved for capital projects in capital budgets for prior years. The 2016 capital budget is comprised of $13 million for maintenance capital expenditures and $57 million for expansion capital expenditures. We expect the majority of the expansion capital budget to be invested in refined product pipeline expansions, crude system enhancements, new storage tanks, and enhanced blending capabilities at our racks. In addition to our capital budget, we may spend funds periodically to perform capital upgrades or additions to our assets where a customer reimburses us for such costs. The upgrades or additions would generally benefit the customer over the remaining life of the related service agreements. 

We are currently evaluating a potential opportunity to dropdown certain assets related to the initial phase of the expansion at HFC's Woods Cross refinery in the second half of 2016. 

We expect that our currently planned sustaining and maintenance capital expenditures, as well as expenditures for acquisitions and capital development projects, will be funded with cash generated by operations, the sale of additional limited partner common units, the issuance of debt securities and advances under our Credit Agreement, or a combination thereof. With volatility and uncertainty at times in the credit and equity markets, there may be limits on our ability to issue new debt or equity financing. Additionally, due to pricing movements in the debt and equity markets, we may not be able to issue new debt and equity securities at acceptable pricing. Without additional capital beyond amounts available under the Credit Agreement, our ability to obtain funds for some of these capital projects may be limited. 

Under the terms of the transaction to acquire HFC's 75% interest in UNEV, we issued to HFC a Class B unit comprising a noncontrolling equity interest in a wholly-owned subsidiary subject to redemption to the extent that HFC is entitled to a 50% interest in our share of annual UNEV earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization above $30 million beginning July 1, 2016, and ending in June 2032, subject to certain limitations. 

SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE 

Many of our pipelines are subject to regulation by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (&#8220;PHMSA&#8221;) of the Department of Transportation. PHMSA has promulgated regulations governing, among other things, maximum operating pressures, pipeline patrols and leak surveys, minimum depth requirements, and emergency procedures, as well as other matters intended to prevent accidents and failures. Additionally, PHMSA has promulgated regulations requiring pipeline operators to 

- 8 &#32;- 

develop and implement integrity management programs for certain pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture, could affect &#8220;high consequence areas,&#8221; which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences, including high-population areas, certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas. We believe that our pipeline operations are in substantial compliance with requirements; however, due to the possibility of new or amended laws and regulations or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, future compliance could result in increased costs. 

In addition, many states have adopted regulations, similar to existing PHMSA regulations, for certain intrastate pipelines. For example, Texas has developed regulatory programs that largely parallel the federal regulatory scheme and impose additional requirements for certain pipelines. 

We perform preventive and normal maintenance on all of our pipeline systems and make repairs and replacements when necessary or appropriate. We also conduct routine and required inspections of our pipelines and other assets as required by regulations. We inject corrosion inhibitors into our mainlines to help control internal corrosion. External coatings and impressed current cathodic protection systems are used to protect against external corrosion. We regularly monitor, test and record the effectiveness of these corrosion-inhibiting systems. We monitor the structural integrity of covered segments of our pipeline systems through a program of periodic internal inspections using both &#8220;dent pigs&#8221; and electronic &#8220;smart pigs&#8221;, as well as hydrostatic testing that conforms to federal standards. We follow these inspections with a review of the data, and we make repairs as necessary to ensure the integrity of the pipeline. We have initiated a risk-based approach to prioritizing the pipeline segments for future smart pig runs or other approved integrity testing methods. We believe this approach will allow the pipelines that have the greatest risk potential to receive the highest priority in being scheduled for inspections or pressure tests for integrity. We believe our inspection process substantially complies with all applicable regulatory requirements. Nonetheless, the adoption of new or amended regulations or the reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations by PHMSA or the states that result in more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management or safety standards could possibly have a substantial effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators. 

Maintenance facilities containing equipment for pipe repairs, spare parts, and trained response personnel are located along the pipelines. Employees participate in simulated spill deployment exercises on a regular basis. Also they participate in actual spill response boom deployment exercises in planned spill scenarios in accordance with Oil Pollution Act of 1990 requirements. We believe that all of our pipelines have been constructed and are maintained in all material respects in accordance with applicable federal and state laws, the regulations prescribed by PHMSA, standards prescribed by the American Petroleum Institute and accepted industry practice. 

At our terminals, tanks designed for gasoline storage are equipped with internal or external floating roofs that minimize emissions and prevent potentially flammable vapor accumulation between fluid levels and the roof of the tank. Our terminal facilities have facility response plans, spill prevention and control plans, and other plans and programs to respond to emergencies. 

Many of our terminal loading racks are protected with water deluge systems activated by either heat sensors or an emergency switch. Several of our terminals are also protected by foam systems that are activated in case of fire. All of our terminals are subject to participation in a comprehensive environmental management program to assure compliance with applicable air, solid waste, and wastewater regulations. 

COMPETITION 

As a result of our physical integration with HFC&#8217;s refineries, our contractual relationship with HFC under the Omnibus Agreement and the HFC pipelines and terminals, tankage and throughput agreements, we believe that we will not face significant competition for barrels of refined products transported from HFC&#8217;s refineries, particularly during the terms of our long-term transportation agreements with HFC expiring in 2019 through 2030. Additionally, under our throughput agreement with Alon expiring in 2020, we believe that we will not face significant competition for those barrels of refined products we transport from Alon&#8217;s Big Spring refinery. 

However, we do face competition from other pipelines that may be able to supply the end-user markets of HFC or Alon with refined products on a more competitive basis. Additionally, if HFC&#8217;s wholesale customers reduced their purchases of refined products due to the increased availability of cheaper product from other suppliers or for other reasons, the volumes transported through our pipelines could be reduced, which, subject to the minimum revenue commitments, could cause a decrease in cash and revenues generated from our operations. 

The petroleum refining business is highly competitive. Among HFC&#8217;s competitors are some of the world&#8217;s largest integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems. HFC competes with independent refiners as well. Competition in particular geographic areas is affected primarily by the amounts of refined products produced by refineries located in such areas and by the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to such areas from refineries located outside those areas. 

- 9 &#32;- 

In addition, we face competition from trucks that deliver product in a number of areas we serve. Although their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas we serve. The availability of truck transportation places some competitive constraints on us. 

Our refined product terminals compete with other independent terminal operators as well as integrated oil companies based on terminal location, price, versatility and services provided. Our competition primarily comes from integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies, independent terminal companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms. Historically, the significant majority of the throughput at our terminal facilities has come from HFC. 

RATE REGULATION 

Some of our existing pipelines are subject to rate regulation by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act. The Interstate Commerce Act requires that tariff rates for oil pipelines, a category that includes crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. The Interstate Commerce Act permits challenges to rates that are already on file and in effect by complaint. A successful challenge under a complaint may result in the complainant obtaining damages or reparations for up to two years prior to the date the complaint was filed. The Interstate Commerce Act also permits challenges to a proposed new or changed rate by a protest. A successful challenge under a protest may result in the protestant obtaining refunds or reparations from the date the proposed new or changed rate becomes effective. In either challenge process, the third party must be able to show it has a substantial economic interest in those rates to proceed. The FERC generally has not investigated interstate rates on its own initiative but will likely become a party to any proceedings when the rates receive either a complaint or a protest. However, the FERC is not prohibited from bringing an interstate rate under investigation without a third-party intervention. 

While the FERC regulates the rates for interstate shipments on our refined product pipelines, the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission regulates the rates for intrastate shipments in New Mexico, the Texas Railroad Commission regulates the rates for intrastate shipments in Texas, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission regulates the rates for intrastate shipments in Oklahoma and the Idaho Public Utilities Commission regulates the rates for intrastate shipments in Idaho. State commissions have generally not been aggressive in regulating common carrier pipelines and generally have not investigated the rates or practices of petroleum pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints, and we do not believe the intrastate tariffs now in effect are likely to be challenged. However, a state regulatory commission could investigate our rates if such a challenge were filed. 

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND REMEDIATION 

Our operation of pipelines, terminals, and associated facilities in connection with the transportation and storage of refined products and crude oil is subject to stringent and complex federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. As with the industry generally, compliance with existing and anticipated laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to construct, maintain, and upgrade equipment and facilities. While these laws and regulations affect our maintenance capital expenditures and net income, we believe that they do not affect our competitive position given that the operations of our competitors are similarly affected. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, these laws and regulations, and the interpretation or enforcement thereof, are subject to frequent change by regulatory authorities, and we are unable to predict the ongoing cost to us of complying with these laws and regulations or the future impact of these laws and regulations on our operations. Violation of environmental laws, regulations, and permits can result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, and construction bans or delays. A major discharge of hydrocarbons or hazardous substances into the environment could, to the extent the event is not insured, subject us to substantial expense, including both the cost to comply with applicable laws and regulations and claims made by employees, neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage. 

Contamination resulting from spills of refined products and crude oil is not unusual within the petroleum pipeline industry. Historic spills along our existing pipelines and terminals as a result of past operations have resulted in contamination of the environment, including soils and groundwater. Site conditions, including soils and groundwater, are being evaluated at a few of our properties where operations may have resulted in releases of hydrocarbons and other wastes, none of which we believe will have a significant effect on our operations since the remediation of such releases would be covered under environmental indemnification agreements. 

Under the Omnibus Agreement and certain transportation agreements and purchase agreements with HFC, HFC has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain monetary and time limitations, for environmental noncompliance and remediation liabilities associated with certain assets transferred to us from HFC and occurring or existing prior to the date of such transfers. 

We have an environmental agreement with Alon with respect to pre-closing environmental costs and liabilities relating to the pipelines and terminals acquired from Alon in 2005, under which Alon will indemnify us subject to certain monetary and time limitations. 

- 10 &#32;- 

There are environmental remediation projects that are currently in progress that relate to certain assets acquired from HFC. Certain of these projects were underway prior to our purchase and represent liabilities of HFC as the obligation for future remediation activities was retained by HFC. At December 31, 2015 , we have an accrual of $7.7 million &#32;that relates to environmental clean-up projects for which we have assumed liability or for which the indemnity provided for by HFC has expired or will expire. The remaining projects, including assessment and monitoring activities, are covered under the HFC environmental indemnification discussed above and represent liabilities of HFC. 

We may experience future releases into the environment from our pipelines and terminals or discover historical releases that were previously unidentified or not assessed. Although we maintain an extensive inspection and audit program designed, as applicable, to prevent, detect and address these releases promptly, damages and liabilities incurred due to any future environmental releases from our assets have the potential to substantially affect our business. 

EMPLOYEES 

Neither we nor our general partner has employees. Direct support for our operations is provided by HLS, which utilizes 245 people employed by HFC dedicated to performing services for us. We reimburse HFC for direct expenses that HFC or its affiliates incurs on our behalf for these employees. HFC considers its employee relations to be good. 

Under HLS&#8217;s Secondment Agreement with HFC, certain employees of HFC are seconded to HLS to provide operational and maintenance services for certain of our pipelines and tankage assets at the El Dorado and Cheyenne refineries, and HLS reimburses HFC for its prorated portion of the wages, benefits, and other costs of these employees for our benefit. 

