 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing medicines for patients with neglected and rare diseases, with an ancillary focus on pediatric conditions, and on executing our Responsible Pricing Model in the commercialization of our products that may be approved. Our lead product candidate is benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease, a parasitic illness that can lead to long-term heart, intestinal and neurological problems. We are developing one of our proprietary monoclonal antibodies, lenzilumab (formerly known as KB003), for the treatment of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or CMML, and potentially for the treatment of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, or JMML, both of which are rare hematologic cancers with high unmet medical need. We are exploring development of another of our proprietary monoclonal antibodies, ifabotuzumab (formerly known as KB004), for the treatment of certain rare solid and hematologic cancers. With a focus on neglected, rare and orphan diseases, we believe we have the opportunity to benefit from various regulatory incentives, such as orphan drug exclusivity, breakthrough therapy designation, fast track designation, accelerated approval, priority review and priority review vouchers, or PRV, where available, that provide for certain periods of exclusivity, expedited review and/or other benefits.

Upon approval of any of our products, we intend to apply our Responsible Pricing Model, which focuses on affordability for patients and payers, transparency for all stakeholders, and delivery of a reasonable return in recognition of the risks we are taking in our development efforts.

Benznidazole is an oral small molecule antiprotozoal for the treatment of Chagas disease, which is also known as American trypanosomiasis. Benznidazole has undergone numerous clinical trials and studies that show efficacy against Chagas disease and we believe is the current preferred treatment for Chagas disease in the countries where it is approved. No treatments for Chagas disease are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for use in the United States. On June 30, 2016, we acquired certain worldwide rights relating to benznidazole for human use from Savant Neglected Diseases, LLC, or Savant, and we are focused on the development necessary to seek and obtain FDA approval of benznidazole. We believe benznidazole as a treatment for Chagas disease could qualify for priority review and potentially other FDA regulatory incentives, and to receive a PRV if FDA approves the drug for marketing.

Lenzilumab is a recombinant monoclonal antibody, or mAb, that neutralizes soluble granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, or GM-CSF, a critical cytokine for the growth of certain hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Consistent with our strategic focus on neglected and rare diseases, in July 2016, we initiated dosing in a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with CMML to identify the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, or recommended Phase 2 dose of lenzilumab and to assess lenzilumab&#8217;s safety, pharmacokinetics, and clinical activity.

Ifabotuzumab is an anti-EphA3 mAb that has the potential to offer a novel approach to treating both solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. EphA3 is aberrantly expressed on the tumor cell surface of certain cancers. We have completed the Phase 1 dose escalation portion of a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in ifabotuzumab in multiple hematologic malignancies and are evaluating whether to conduct further studies of ifabotuzumab in rare solid tumors such as glioblastoma, other brain cancers in children and rare hematologic cancer indications. We also have an additional drug candidate, KB001-A, a recombinant, PEGylated, anti&#8209;Pseudomonas PcrV high&#8209;affinity Fab&#8217; antibody that we are no longer developing, but which is being considered for partnering or out-licensing.

Lenzilumab, ifabotuzumab and KB001-A were each developed with our proprietary, patent-protected Humaneered &#174; technology, which consists of methods for converting antibodies (typically murine) into engineered, high-affinity antibodies designed for human therapeutic use, typically for chronic conditions.

&#160;

Our strategy also involves identifying, acquiring, developing and supporting the commercialization of additional treatments for neglected and rare diseases. We believe the treatment of neglected and rare diseases represents an opportunity to enter underserved patient populations and serve specialty markets. We also believe our focus on neglected and rare diseases provides us the opportunity to benefit from various regulatory incentives referenced above. The potential opportunities afforded by these regulatory programs provide an important incentive to support our efforts to develop medicines for patients with neglected and rare diseases and to apply our Responsible Pricing Model for any of our approved products.

Our company has undergone a significant transformation in the last year. As a result of challenges facing us at the time, on December 29, 2015, we filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On June 30, 2016, our Second Amended Plan of Reorganization, dated May 9, 2016, as amended, or the Plan, became effective and we emerged from our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. For further information on our bankruptcy and emergence from bankruptcy, see &#8220;Bankruptcy.&#8221;

Our Strategy

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing medicines for patients with neglected and rare diseases and using our Responsible Pricing Model for our products that may be approved, with an ancillary interest in pediatric conditions. We plan to achieve our objectives through the following strategies, which we believe reflect an innovative and responsible business model that differentiates our approach from more traditional approaches used by drug development companies:

&#183; Develop and support the commercialization of benznidazole for the treatment of the neglected Chagas disease . We believe that benznidazole as a treatment for Chagas disease is a model opportunity to deliver on our strategy to provide treatments for patients with neglected and rare diseases. Chagas disease affects an estimated 8 to10 million people globally, including approximately 300,000 or more people in the United States according to U.S. Centers for Disease Control estimates, and is responsible for an estimated 12,500 annual global deaths. Nevertheless, there are currently no approved drugs in the United States for the treatment of Chagas disease. We believe that manufacturing issues have in the past led to an uncertain and inconsistent worldwide drug supply of benznidazole. On June 30, 2016, we acquired certain worldwide rights related to benznidazole for human use from Savant. We are now working to develop benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease in order to seek and obtain FDA approval. We believe that benznidazole is eligible for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, pursuant to which an applicant may rely on investigations not conducted by or for the applicant to show that a drug is safe and effective. We also believe that benznidazole is eligible for a five-year period of marketing exclusivity as a new chemical entity, if approved, under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. We may also seek orphan drug designation for benznidazole, which could confer seven years of marketing exclusivity. In addition, since Chagas disease is listed by FDA as a Neglected Tropical Disease, we may receive a PRV if our version of benznidazole is the first version approved by FDA. 

&#183; Develop and support the commercialization of lenzilumab for the treatment of CMML and potentially JMML . Lenzilumab has shown a favorable safety profile to date and has been studied in more than 90 human subjects in clinical studies in either healthy adults or adults with autoimmune diseases. We completed Phase 1 and Phase 1/2 clinical trials of lenzilumab&#8217;s precursor, KB002, a Phase 2 clinical trial of lenzilumab in patients with severe asthma and the run&#8209;in safety portion of a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, but no longer plan to develop lenzilumab for these indications. In July 2016, we initiated dosing in a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with CMML to identify the MTD or recommended Phase 2 dose of lenzilumab and to assess lenzilumab&#8217;s safety, pharmacokinetics, and clinical activity. Depending on the initial results in CMML, we plan to study lenzilumab in JMML, a rare pediatric form of leukemia, where the primary treatment alternative in some patients is a bone marrow stem cell transplant. We believe that both CMML and JMML would qualify as orphan conditions, and we intend to seek orphan designation for this product for these conditions. Further, if FDA agrees that JMML is a rare pediatric disease, we may receive a PRV if lenzilumab is approved by FDA for use in JMML. 

&#160;

&#183; Evaluate development of ifabotuzumab for the treatment of rare adult and pediatric solid tumors and hematologic cancers. &#160; Prior to our bankruptcy and reorganization, we began enrolling patients in the Phase 2 cohort expansion portion of our Phase 1/2 clinical trial for ifabotuzumab as a potential therapeutic for myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS, and myelofibrosis. We suspended this study in connection with our bankruptcy and reorganization. &#160; Consistent with our strategic focus, we are now evaluating opportunities to study the use of ifabotuzumab in rare solid tumors like glioblastoma, pediatric cancers and certain rare hematologic cancer indications. We believe that some of these conditions would qualify as Orphan conditions, and if we develop ifabotuzumab we would submit the product for orphan designation for this product for these conditions. Further, if FDA agrees that the pediatric uses qualify as rare pediatric diseases, we may receive a PRV if ifabotuzumab is approved by FDA for use in these rare pediatric conditions. 

&#183; In-license or acquire additional products and product candidates that align with our mission to treat neglected and rare diseases . We intend to identify and in-license or acquire additional product candidates across various stages of development that treat neglected and rare diseases, including pediatric conditions. With this strategic focus, we believe we will have the opportunity to benefit from various regulatory incentives, such as orphan drug designations and exclusivities, PRVs where available, and FDA&#8217;s expedited programs, such as breakthrough therapy designation and priority review. The Orphan Drug Act provides incentives for the development of drugs and biological products intended to treat rare diseases or conditions, which generally are diseases or conditions affecting less than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or those affecting more than that number but for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making the drug available in the United States for such disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States of such drug. If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug or biologic is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, FDA generally grants orphan drug designation to the product for that use, as long as other requirements are met, including that the drug is not the same drug as an already approved drug for the same rare disease or condition. The benefits of orphan drug status include research and development tax credits, exemption from user fees, and if the sponsor is the first to obtain approval for that drug product for the rare disease or condition, seven years of exclusivity during which FDA generally may not approve any other application for the same product for the same indication, and while we do not know if it will be the case for any product candidates that we pursue, product candidates with orphan designations appear to have higher rates of approval, faster trials and shorter FDA review time. Under the FDCA, FDA is also authorized to award a PRV upon the approval of a new drug application, or NDA, or a biologic license application, or BLA, for neglected tropical disease and rare pediatric disease product candidates that meet certain criteria. PRVs can be used for the acceleration of review and approval of a different product candidate by several months. A PRV may be used by the sponsor that obtains it or it may be sold or transferred to another sponsor that may use it to obtain priority review for a different application. We may also seek product candidates that could qualify for FDA&#8217;s expedited programs, namely priority review, fast track, breakthrough therapy and accelerated approval, or for regulatory exclusivities and other incentives provided for new chemical entities and qualified infectious disease products. The opportunity and benefits of these programs provide an important incentive to support our efforts to develop medicines for patients with neglected and rare diseases and in certain instances provide us with multiple paths for value creation. 

&#183; When products are approved for marketing, apply our Responsible Pricing Model . We intend to responsibly price any approved products. We define &#8216;responsible pricing&#8217; as affordable for patients and payers, transparent for stakeholders, and delivering a reasonable return for us and our shareholders. We plan to price our products at overall cost, plus a reasonable and transparent profit margin, if and when they are approved. We will intend to publicly share the key elements that make up the pricing of our products and seek input from key stakeholders on what would constitute a reasonable return. We do not intend to take arbitrary price increases on our products and plan to limit any increase to no more than the rate of inflation or Consumer Price Index and to no more than once a year, if at all. With respect to benznidazole, we plan to ensure patients, irrespective of their ability to pay, will have access to benznidazole, if and when we receive approval of benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease in the United States. In developing countries, we plan to make benznidazole available at or near cost and plan to work with partners on creating access programs to ensure patients in need receive the medication. 

&#160;

&#183; Seek impact and socially responsible investors as additional funding sources . To date, we have only recognized revenue from payments for funded research and development and for license or collaboration fees and have relied on private and public financing sources to fund our operations. As a means to further our strategy, we also intend to seek impact and socially responsible investors whose interests align with our mission and strategies. Impact and socially responsible investment, or SRI, aims to maximize both financial gain and social good, including through the promotion of consumer protection and human rights. Access to SRI sources continues to grow. According to The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment, total U.S.-domiciled assets under management using SRI strategies increased 76 percent from $3.74 trillion at the start of 2012 to $6.57 trillion at the start of 2014 alone. 

Benznidazole

Overview

Benznidazole is an oral small molecule antiprotozoal nitroimidazole derivative for the treatment of Chagas disease that has undergone decades of real-world treatment outside the United States and numerous clinical tests and studies. Chagas disease is a parasitic disease typically transmitted by insects, sometimes by congenital (mother-to-child) transmission during pregnancy, blood transfusions or infected organ transplants, and rarely through oral ingestion of the parasite. While many cases are asymptomatic during the acute phase of the infection which can last several weeks, up to approximately a third of people infected may develop serious complications 10 to 30 years following infection and where people have symptoms, they can persist for years and range from mild to deadly. The disease affects millions of people in the Americas, including an estimated 300,000 in the United States for all phases of the disease. We believe benznidazole is the preferred treatment for Chagas disease where it is approved, but it is not approved for marketing in the United States. Based on clinical trials outside of the United States, we believe that benznidazole has been shown to be a useful treatment for Chagas disease in the majority of acute phase patients, particularly children, and studies conducted outside the United States suggest possible benefits in some chronically infected patients. On June 30, 2016, we acquired certain worldwide rights relating to benznidazole for human use from Savant. We are working to obtain FDA approval for benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease.

Chagas Disease

Chagas disease is a parasitic disease caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi , or T. cruzi . The disease is typically transmitted through the feces of the triatomine bug, commonly known as the kissing bug. Transmission may occur in connection with a bite from this bug. Chagas disease may also be transmitted from mother-to-child transmission during pregnancy or through blood transfusions or infected organ transplants. Chagas has acute and chronic stages and is sometimes symptomless. Some infected individuals develop clinical symptoms in a four-to-eight week period following infection. This mild acute phase is typically characterized by non-specific flu-like and other symptoms such as fever and malaise. The acute stage is not associated with symptoms at all in a large majority of cases. However, during this phase, severe manifestations such as acute myocarditis or meningoencephalitis may also be experienced and in a small proportion of patients, especially children, can lead to serious consequences or death. After the acute phase, a chronic infection may persist for years or decades, again sometimes without symptoms. If left untreated, chronic Chagas disease may result in organ and tissue damage. Approximately 20 to 30% of chronic cases lead to serious complications, most commonly cardiac or intestinal, over the course of 10 to 30 years. Cardiac complications may include heart arrhythmias, chronic inflammation, conduction system damage and apical aneurysms. Up to 10% of chronic cases lead to severe damage to the digestive system, predominantly affecting the esophagus and/or colon. Some patients also develop neurological complications. In some cases, chronic Chagas disease may lead to premature death.

Chagas disease causes a substantial disease burden in Latin America and the United States. It has disproportionate effects on poor populations. An estimated 8 to10 million people are infected globally, and there are an estimated 300,000 infected individuals in the United States, at all stages of infection. The disease kills approximately 12,500 people annually. According to the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative, cases have been increasing in other parts of the world, though World Health Organization, or WHO, studies showed a significant decline in certain Latin American countries from 1983 to 2000. While acute cases are relatively few in the United States, many cases may be undiagnosed. In addition, there are an estimated 30,000 to 45,000 Chagas-related cardiomyopathy cases in the United States. Cases have also been reported in Europe and Asia, with one study estimating the presence of between 68,000 and 123,000 infected individuals in Europe alone, with approximately half of these in Spain. Cases of Chagas disease have also been reported to be increasing in Japan, Canada and Australia, primarily as a result of migration patterns.

&#160;

Efforts to control Chagas disease include efforts to control the vector insects, such as insecticide use and roof repair (the bugs often live in cracks in houses), efforts to protect people from kissing bug bites, including bed nets, as well as education and medication. However, despite the wide incidence and prevalence of Chagas disease, the WHO has designated Chagas disease a neglected tropical disease and FDA added it to the list of neglected tropical diseases in August 2015. There are currently no approved vaccines or preventative treatments for Chagas disease in the United States. Drugs currently used to treat Chagas disease are benznidazole and nifurtimox, which are currently only available in the United States through a compassionate use protocol from the CDC or through clinical trials.

Background and Mechanism of Action

Benznidazole was first introduced by a predecessor of Roche Holdings Ltd. in 1971. Roche later transferred the patent (which has since expired) and technology for benznidazole, as well as the benznidazole active pharmaceutical ingredient and tablets, to a Brazilian government-run laboratory, Laborat&#243;rio Farmac&#234;utico do Estado de Pernambuco, or LAFEPE. LAFEPE subsequently received approval for benznidazole production from the Brazilian government. LAFEPE developed a pediatric dosage in 2011. LAFEPE and the Argentine laboratory ELEA, which is affiliated with the Argentinian conglomerate Grupo Insud/Chemo Group, are the only current producers of benznidazole. ELEA uses the trade name Abarax for the drug. As third parties, including the advocacy group Doctors Without Borders, have noted, the worldwide drug supply of benznidazole has historically experienced manufacturing issues that have led to an uncertain and inconsistent worldwide drug supply.

Benznidazole acts by interfering with protein biosynthesis in T. cruzi . Benznidazole influences cytokine production and stimulates host phagocytosis. Reductive metabolites of benznidazole create highly-reactive oxygen species in T. cruzi , leading to alkylation and oxidative damage of vital elements such as DNA and RNA in the parasite.

Benznidazole has undergone numerous clinical trials, including trials conducted outside the United States and not under an investigational new drug application, or IND, with FDA. We believe these trials support safety and efficacy in the treatment of Chagas disease. Studies have shown that benznidazole may cure more than 60% of patients in the acute phase and 90% of congenitally infected infants in the first year of life. Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of benznidazole for children aged 6 to 12 years with asymptomatic T. cruzi infections demonstrated approximately 60% efficacy, as assessed by negative serology results 3 to 4 years after-treatment. In a 2006 non-randomized, non-blinded trial, benznidazole treatment appeared to slow the development and progression of Chagas cardiomyopathy in adults. The side effects of benznidazole include allergic dermatitis, peripheral nerve disorder, anorexia, weight loss, and insomnia.

Development Plans

As previously noted, no treatments for Chagas disease are currently approved for marketing in the United States. On June 30, 2016, we acquired from Savant certain regulatory and non-intellectual property assets relating to benznidazole and any product containing benznidazole and an exclusive license of certain intellectual property rights related to benznidazole. We are now working to obtain FDA approval for benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease based primarily on data in three categories: (1) clinical trials previously conducted by others for which we have obtained a right to access and use the underlying data, which we plan to analyze, organize, and present to FDA in an NDA; (2) clinical trials reported in the literature for which the underlying data may or may not have been submitted to FDA, and to which we have not obtained rights of access, use, or reference; and (3) to the extent required by FDA, bioavailability and/or bioequivalence studies and non-clinical studies that we will perform to bridge the clinical trial data described above using prior formulations of benznidazole to our current formulation, which we believe to be comparable to the prior formulations.

&#160;

Based on our planned approach, we believe that benznidazole is eligible for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Under that section, an applicant seeking approval of an NDA may rely in part or in whole on investigations not conducted by or for the applicant, and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted, to show that the applicant&#8217;s drug is safe and effective. The second category of data described above, on which we anticipate relying to some extent in establishing benznidazole&#8217;s safety and efficacy, consists of data to which we do not and will not have a contractual right of access, reference, or use, but which we may legally reference by virtue of the FDCA. Most of the data on which we intend to rely, however, are foreign clinical data to which we have obtained or plan to obtain a right of access and use, which we will analyze, organize, and present to FDA in an NDA, and that FDA will need to find acceptable together with the other data we present. Because the clinical safety and efficacy data on which we intend to rely were derived from studies using a prior formulation of benznidazole, as noted above in the description of the third category of data on which we anticipate relying, FDA may require us to perform bridging studies to confirm the comparability of our current formulation and the prior formulations. FDA may also require bridging studies to confirm the comparability of patient populations, medical practice, and other potential variables between the prior clinical trial conditions and the proposed conditions of use for the drug in the United States.

Although we believe our planned approach will provide FDA with sufficient clinical safety and efficacy data on which to base an approval, FDA may request additional information or data that we may not have and that we may not be able to obtain.

We also believe benznidazole would qualify as a new chemical entity, a designation that carries with it five years of exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act upon approval. In addition, we may seek orphan drug designation for benznidazole. FDA has previously granted orphan drug designation to sponsors of both benznidazole and nifurtimox for treatment of Chagas disease, and we are continuing to evaluate our eligibility to obtain orphan drug designation for benznidazole in treating Chagas disease, based on current facts. Because an independent assessment is made by FDA each time that a sponsor requests orphan drug designation, there is no assurance that we will be granted that designation if we seek it. New chemical entity and orphan drug designations are further discussed in the &#8220;Government Regulation&#8221; section below.

We plan to ensure patients, irrespective of their ability to pay, will have access to benznidazole if and when we receive approval of benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease in the United States. The scope and availability of prescription drug insurance coverage, or other means to pay for pharmaceutical treatments, is uncertain for patients with Chagas disease in the United States. If we do not obtain approval for benznidazole in the United States, we may still make benznidazole available in developing countries. If we make benznidazole available in developing countries, we expect to make benznidazole available at or near cost in those countries and plan to work with partners to create access programs to ensure patients in need receive the medication.

In August 2015, FDA added Chagas disease to the list of designated neglected tropical diseases whose product applications, if approved, may result in the award of a PRV. We believe that the approval of benznidazole as a treatment for Chagas disease could result in the issuance of a PRV, which then could be used by us for a different product candidate or sold or transferred for other value to another sponsor that may use it to obtain priority review for its own product candidate. We consider the issuance of a PRV to be the largest potential value driver for benznidazole. The regulatory regime for PRVs is further discussed in the &#8220;Government Regulation&#8221; section below.

Lenzilumab

Overview and Mechanism of Action

Lenzilumab, which we previously referred to as KB003, is a recombinant antibody designed to target and neutralize human GM&#8209;CSF, a central actor in leukocyte differentiation, autoimmunity and inflammation. We used our proprietary and patented Humaneered antibody development platform to develop lenzilumab. We are currently developing lenzilumab for use in patients with CMML and plan to investigate its potential use in patients with JMML depending on the results of studies in CMML. The GM-CSF receptor is expressed on myeloblasts and other progenitor cells, and binding results in differentiation and maturation into monocytes. GM&#8209;CSF is an important part of an inflammatory cascade that stimulates white blood cells (granulocytes, including eosinophils, neutrophils, and macrophages) and maintains them in an active state during infection. However, excessive GM&#8209;CSF may be involved in tissue damage associated with inflammatory diseases. The results of anti&#8209;GM&#8209;CSF in ex-vivo studies suggest lenzilumab has potential in treating certain oncology conditions, including CMML and JMML, as well as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, RA and multiple sclerosis.

Lenzilumab is a Humaneered version of KB002, a low picomolar affinity, novel chimeric mAb that we licensed from Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, or LICR. Data from our single&#8209;dose, Phase 1 and Phase 1/2 clinical trials with KB002 supported our clinical trials with lenzilumab. In these studies, KB002 appeared to be well tolerated. Lenzilumab targets the same binding site as KB002 and has been shown to be functionally similar and appeared generally safe in our clinical trials. We conducted a repeat&#8209;dose, Phase 2 clinical trial of lenzilumab in RA with the inclusion of a safety run&#8209;in portion. On completing the run&#8209;in safety portion of this trial, which showed lenzilumab to be well tolerated with no clinically significant adverse events, we reassessed the increasingly competitive RA market and chose to redirect our study of lenzilumab to severe asthma patients inadequately controlled by corticosteroids. Results from a subsequent randomized, double&#8209;blinded, placebo&#8209;controlled, repeat dose, intravenous Phase 2 clinical trial of asthma trial showed that the primary endpoint was not met, although a significant effect was shown in certain pre&#8209;specified subgroups. As a result of these data, we terminated development of lenzilumab in asthma.

Development Program

We believe that lenzilumab holds particular promise in CMML, a rare form of hematologic cancer with no FDA-approved treatment options and a three-year overall survival rate of 20% and median overall survival of 20 months, and potentially JMML, a rare pediatric form of leukemia. CMML is a clonal stem cell disorder of which monocytosis is a key feature. CMML has features of MDS, including abnormal, dysplastic bone marrow cells; cytopenia; transfusion dependence; and of myeloproliferative neoplasms, including overproduction of white blood cells, organomegaly (e.g., splenomegaly and hepatomegaly) and extramedullary disease. About 15 to 20% of CMML cases progress to acute myeloid leukemia, or AML. According to the American Cancer Society, approximately 1,100 individuals in the United States are newly diagnosed annually with CMML, with the majority of these new patients being age 60 or older. These patients are typically unsuitable for stem cell transplants. Preclinical studies have shown lenzilumab can be used to cause apoptosis in CMML cells by depriving them of GM-CSF. Given our strategic focus on neglected and rare diseases, in July 2016, we initiated dosing in a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with CMML to identify the MTD or recommended Phase 2 dose of lenzilumab and to assess lenzilumab&#8217;s safety, pharmacokinetics, and clinical activity. The study will enroll up to 18 patients. Depending on the results of the CMML study, we also intend to investigate the potential treatment of the rarer JMML (approximately 420 new cases annually in the United States), which mostly affects children aged four and younger, with lenzilumab. We believe that lenzilumab may be eligible for a rare pediatric disease PRV if approved for JMML. We also believe lenzilumab in CMML or JMML could qualify for orphan drug designation and potentially several other FDA incentives.

An IND for a Phase 1/2 CMML monotherapy study of lenzilumab is now in effect. In July 2016, we began to enroll patients in a multicenter, open-label, repeat-dose, Phase 1 study consisting of a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, and clinical activity of lenzilumab in patients with previously-treated CMML who are no longer responsive to previous treatment. The primary endpoint of this study is the safety of lenzilumab, as measured by the number of participants with adverse events, at various doses in order to determine a recommended Phase 2 dose. The secondary endpoint is clinical activity of lenzilumab, as measured by changes in spleen size, blood and bone marrow measurements of disease, clinical symptoms and other measures.

Ifabotuzumab

Ifabotuzumab is a Humaneered mAb in which the carbohydrate chains lack fucose, thereby enhancing the targeted cell-killing activity of the antibody. In 2006, we entered into a license agreement with LICR pursuant to which LICR granted to us certain exclusive rights to the ifabotuzumab prototype and EphA3 intellectual property.

&#160;

Ifabotuzumab binds to the EphA3 receptor, which plays an important role in cell positioning and tissue organization during fetal development, but is not thought to play a significant role in healthy adults. EphA3 is a tyrosine kinase receptor aberrantly expressed on the tumor cell surface in a number of hematologic malignancies and solid tumors, and is also expressed on the stem cell compartment. This compartment includes malignant stem cells, the vasculature that feeds them, and the stromal cells that protect them. EphA3 expression has been documented in a number of tumor types, including AML, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, MDS, myelofibrosis, multiple myeloma, melanoma, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, renal cancer, glioblastoma, and prostate cancer. Publications related to certain cancers have indicated that EphA3 tumor cell expression correlates with cancer growth and a poor prognosis.

Anti-EphA3 treatment has shown encouraging preclinical results in multiple experiment types, including patient primary tumor cell assays, colony forming assays, and xenograft mouse models. Upon binding to EphA3, ifabotuzumab causes cell killing to occur either through antibody-dependent, cell-mediated cytotoxity or through direct apoptosis, and in the case of tumor neovasculature through cell rounding and blood vessel disruption. Given the differential expression pattern of EphA3, ifabotuzumab may have the potential to kill cancer cells and the tumor stem cell microenvironment, providing for long-term responses while sparing normal cells. Prior to our bankruptcy, we were conducting a Phase 1/2 trial of ifabotuzumab in multiple hematologic malignancies.

The most common adverse event attributed to ifabotuzumab in our trial has been infusion reactions (chills and shivering), an expected safety finding based on its mechanism of action. Such reactions are observed with other monoclonal antibodies targeting destruction or lysis of leukemic cells, and can be resolved with standard treatment. Under the original protocol of the dose escalation portion of our Phase 1/2 study, three subjects experienced fatal intracranial hemorrhages, two of which were deemed possibly related to the study drug by the study investigator. Bleeding is typical in late&#8209;stage AML patients and intracranial hemorrhages are the second leading cause of death in these patients. After discussing the status of the trial with FDA, we amended the protocol to enroll only lower&#8209;risk subjects less likely to have disease&#8209;related bleeding complications and instituted a coagulation monitoring plan as recommended by FDA. Following those changes in 2011, there have been no additional events of drug related intracranial hemorrhage in our clinical studies of ifabotuzumab, including at doses higher than those tested prior to the protocol amendment.

In 2014, we completed the Phase 1 dose escalation portion of our study, primarily treating patients with AML as well as patients with MDS and myelofibrosis. Based on interim data from that study, we commenced dosing in the low-dose cohort of the Phase 2 portion in AML patients with EphA3 expression while we completed the dose escalation portion. In the second half of 2014, upon completion of the Phase 1 dose escalation portion, we announced the high dose for the Phase 2 cohort expansion portion of the study and proceeded with plans to commence enrollment in the high-dose cohorts. We have also validated an immunohistochemistry assay for the initial Phase 2 selected indications. In connection with our restructuring, we suspended enrollment in the study. However, consistent with our strategic focus, we are now evaluating opportunities to study the use of ifabotuzumab in rare adult and pediatric solid tumors, including glioblastoma, and certain rare hematologic cancer indications.

Our Humaneered Technology

Our proprietary and patented Humaneered technology platform is a method for converting existing antibodies (typically murine) into engineered, high&#8209;affinity human antibodies designed for therapeutic use, particularly for chronic conditions. We have developed or in&#8209;licensed targets or research (mouse) antibodies, typically from academic institutions, and then applied our Humaneered technology to them. Lenzilumab, ifabotuzumab and KB001&#8209;A are all Humaneered antibodies or antibody fragments. Together, our Humaneered antibodies have been tested clinically in more than 200 patients with no evidence of serious immunogenicity. We believe our Humaneered antibodies are closer to human antibodies than chimeric or conventionally humanized antibodies, are prone to being rejected less and may bind better to the target. Specifically, our Humaneered technology generates an antibody from an existing antibody with the required specificity as a starting point and, we believe, provides the following:

&#183; retention of identical target epitope specificity of the starting antibody and frequent generation of higher affinity antibodies; 

&#183; very-near-to-human germ line sequence, which we believe means our Humaneered antibodies are less likely to induce an inappropriate immune response in broad patient populations when used chronically than chimeric or conventionally humanized antibodies; 

&#183; antibodies with physiochemical properties that facilitate process development and formulation (lack of aggregation at high concentration); 

&#183; high solubility; 

&#183; high antibody expression yields; and 

&#183; an optimized antibody processing time of three to six months. 

In March 2007, we granted Novartis a non-exclusive license to our proprietary Humaneered technology after applying our Humaneered technology to several antibodies for them. Under the license agreement, Novartis is able to develop Humaneered antibodies to create its own therapeutics. We have also Humaneered antibodies to certain targets under predefined criteria for five U.S. and Japanese biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to certain targets under predefined criteria. In each case, we demonstrated the robustness and versatility of the technology by creating Humaneered antibodies with increased affinity. As we are focused on progressing our current portfolio of antibodies through clinical development and out-licensing, we are not currently dedicating additional resources to the research of additional Humaneered antibodies.

KB001-A

KB001&#8209;A is a Humaneered, PEGylated, anti&#8209;PcrV modified antibody fragment (Fab&#8217;) antibody that was being developed for the prevention and treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or Pa , infections in mechanically ventilated patients and cystic fibrosis (CF), patients with chronic Pa lung infections. The only currently approved treatments for Pa are antibiotics, and while there is a broad array of available antibiotics, mortality and morbidity remains high due to bacterial antibiotic resistance, variable levels of antibiotic penetration into the target area and co-morbidities. KB001&#8209;A was designed to bind to and neutralize the pathogenicity of Pa , thereby allowing the body&#8217;s natural immune system to kill and clear the bacteria. Initial Phase 1 and Phase 1/2 trials of KB001-A&#8217;s precursor, KB001, and a Phase 1 trial of KB001-A did not show significant safety problems and indicated trends toward improved clinical outcomes in pneumonia prevention in mechanically ventilated patients and CF patients with chronic Pa infections. However, based on its failure to meet a primary endpoint of a Phase 2 trial, we have discontinued development of this product. We are not currently allocating resources to KB001-A. We are actively seeking out-licensing or other partnership opportunities to help fund KB001-A&#8217;s further clinical development.

Intellectual Property

Licensing and Collaborations

Savant Agreement

On June 30, 2016, we entered into an Agreement for the Manufacture, Development and Commercialization of Benznidazole for Human Use, or the MDC Agreement, with Savant, pursuant to which we acquired certain worldwide rights relating to benznidazole, including certain regulatory and non-intellectual property assets related to benznidazole and any product containing benznidazole and an exclusive license of certain intellectual property assets, including know-how and processes, relating to benznidazole. &#160; Savant retains the right to use the licensed intellectual property for veterinary uses. The MDC Agreement provides that we may jointly conduct development activities with Savant with respect to any product containing benznidazole, while we will be solely responsible for commercializing the product. Under the MDC Agreement, we will fund the development program for the product and will reimburse Savant for its work associated with the development program.

As required by the MDC Agreement, we made payments to Savant totaling $2,687,500, consisting of the remaining portion of an initial payment (excluding a previously paid deposit of $500,000) in the amount of $2,500,000, an initial monthly joint development program cost payment of $87,500, and reimbursement of $100,000 of Savant&#8217;s legal fees. The MDC Agreement provides for regulatory and other milestone payments of up to $21 million if we receive approval from FDA and from other non-US regulatory agencies and certain other contingent payments. Additionally, we will pay Savant royalties in the mid-teens on any net sales of any benznidazole product on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, which royalty will be reduced to the high single digits in the United States if a PRV is not granted subsequent to regulatory approval of any benznidazole product. The MDC Agreement also provides that Savant is entitled to a portion of the amount we receive upon the sale, if any, of a PRV regarding any benznidazole product. In addition, we also entered into a security agreement pursuant to which we granted Savant a continuing senior security interest in the assets and rights acquired by us pursuant to the MDC Agreement and certain future assets developed from those acquired assets.

The Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research

In May 2004, we entered into a license agreement with the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, or LICR, pursuant to which LICR granted to us an exclusive license under intellectual property rights and materials related to chimeric anti-GM-CSF antibodies that formed the basis for the lenzilumab development program. Under the agreement, we were granted an exclusive license to develop antibodies related to LICR&#8217;s antibodies against GM-CSF. We are responsible for using commercially reasonable efforts to research, develop, and sell lenzilumab. We pay LICR a quarterly license fee and are obligated to pay to LICR a royalty from 1.5% to 3% of net sales of licensed products, subject to certain potential offsets and deductions. Our royalty obligation applies on a country-by-country and licensed product-by-licensed product basis, and will begin on the first commercial sale of a licensed product in a given country and end on the later of the expiration of the last to expire patent covering a licensed product in a given country (which in the United States, is currently expected in 2023) or 10 years from first commercial sale of such licensed product in the country. We must also pay to LICR a certain percentage of sublicensing revenue received by us. Aggregate payments made to LICR under this license through December 31, 2015 amounted to $1.5 million.

Other License Agreements

Novartis

In April 2007, we entered into an agreement with Novartis granting a non-exclusive license to our proprietary Humaneered technology for use at Novartis&#8217; research sites to develop human antibodies for therapeutic indications. Under the agreement, Novartis was excluded from using the technology against certain targets until March 2012. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, Novartis paid us $30 million and we transferred the know&#8209;how related to making Humaneered antibodies to enable Novartis to internally make its own antibodies. This agreement will remain in effect until the expiration of the last to expire licensed patent, which is currently expected to expire in 2025 in the United States.

LICR and ifabotuzumab

In 2006, we entered into a license agreement with LICR pursuant to which LICR granted to us certain exclusive rights to the ifabotuzumab prototype and EphA3-related intellectual property. Under the agreement, we obtained rights to develop and commercialize products made through use of licensed patents and any improvements thereto, including human or Humaneered antibodies that bind to or modulate EphA3. We paid LICR an upfront option fee of $50,000 and a further $50,000 upon our exercise of the option for the exclusive license outlined above. We are responsible for contingent milestone payments of less than $2.5 million and royalties of 3% of net sales subject to certain potential offsets and deductions. In addition, we are obligated to pay to LICR a percentage of certain payments we receive from any sublicensee in consideration for a sublicense. Our royalty obligation exists on a country&#8209;by&#8209;country and licensed product&#8209;by&#8209;licensed product basis, which will begin on the first commercial sale and end on the later of the expiration of the last to expire patent covering such licensed product in such country, which in the United States is currently expected in 2030, or 10 years from first commercial sale of such licensed product in such country. Aggregate payments made to LICR under this license through December 31, 2015 amounted to $586,000.

University of California, San Francisco and the Medical College of Wisconsin

In April 2004, we exclusively licensed rights from University of California, San Francisco, or UCSF, and the Medical College of Wisconsin to intellectual property that relate to KB001&#8209;A. These intellectual property rights include a method of treatment of Pa infection using isolated antibodies and an antibody that specifically binds to a key target epitope, as well as diagnostic methods useful in the detection of infection by Pa . Under our agreement with UCSF, we were granted rights to practice the invention as well as further develop antibodies to treat Pa . We are responsible for researching, developing and selling products covered by such intellectual property and must use commercially reasonable efforts to market such products. Under our agreement with UCSF, we paid an upfront license fee of $25,000 and we are responsible for paying an annual license fee of $10,000, aggregate contingent milestone payments of less than $2 million, and royalties on net sales of 3%. We must also pay to UCSF a percentage of certain consideration we receive from any sub-licensees. Aggregate payments made to UCSF under this license through December 31, 2015 amounted to $1.4 million. Our royalty obligation applies on a country-by-country and licensed product&#8209;by&#8209;licensed product basis, and will begin on the first commercial sale of a licensed product in a given country and will end on the later of the expiration of the last to expire patent covering such licensed product in such country, which in the United States is currently expected in 2019, or 10 years from first commercial sale of such licensed product in such country. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, manufacture, partner or sell licensed products and market the products using commercially reasonable efforts to meet market demands.

Sanofi

In January 2010, we entered into an agreement with Sanofi pursuant to which we granted to Sanofi an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize KB001 (the precursor molecule to KB001&#8209;A), KB001&#8209;A and other antibodies directed against the PcrV protein of Pa for all indications but retained rights relating to Pa in patients with CF or bronchiectasis. In July 2014, we executed an agreement with Sanofi under which the Sanofi agreement was terminated. As a result of the termination of the agreement, we regained full global rights to license, develop, manufacture and commercialize KB001-A in all indications, as well as a non-exclusive license to the KB001-A manufacturing process developed by Sanofi. In consideration for terminating the agreement, Sanofi will be entitled to royalties on net sales of KB001-A if approved, subject to a $40 million cap on the aggregate royalties to be paid. In addition, Sanofi will be entitled to receive up to 10% of certain sub-license payments or other milestone payments received in the event we successfully re-partner KB001-A, subject to a separate $40 million cap on the aggregate amount of sub-license payments to be shared with Sanofi.

BioWa and Lonza

In October 2010, we entered into a license agreement with BioWa, Inc., or BioWa, and Lonza Sales AG, or Lonza, pursuant to which BioWa and Lonza granted us non-exclusive, royalty-bearing, sub-licensable license under certain know-how and patents related to antibody expression and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity enhancing technology using BioWa and Lonza&#8217;s Potelligent &#174; CHOK1SV technology. This technology is used to enhance the cell killing capabilities of antibodies and is currently used by us in connection with our development of ifabotuzumab. Under this agreement, we owe annual license fees, milestone payments in connection with certain regulatory and sales milestones and royalties in the low single digits on net sales of products developed under the agreement. The agreement expires upon the expiration of royalty payment obligations under the agreement, is terminable at will by us upon written notice, is terminable by BioWa and Lonza if we challenge or otherwise oppose any licensed patents under the agreement, and is terminable by either party upon the occurrence of an uncured material breach or insolvency.

Patents and Trade Secrets

We use a combination of patent, trade secret and other intellectual property protections to protect our product candidates. Patent and trade secret protection is important to our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain, maintain, defend and enforce patent rights for and to extend the life of patents covering lenzilumab, ifabotuzumab and our Humaneered technology, to preserve trade secrets and proprietary know how, and to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We actively seek patent protection, if available, in the United States and select foreign countries for the technology we develop. We solely own 12 issued U.S. patents, with another issued U.S. patent owned jointly with a third party. We have an exclusive license to seven U.S. patents and we own 37 issued foreign patents, four of which are owned jointly with a third party. We have 69 patent applications pending globally, including 12 non provisional patent applications in the United States, which include one that is solely owned by us and two that we own jointly with others.

&#160;

&#160;

Using our Humaneered technology, we developed and own a composition of matter patent covering lenzilumab and related Humaneered anti-GM CSF antibodies that provides patent protection through April 2029 and have additional pending patents in the United States and a number of foreign countries covering various methods of treatment. We also have current and pending patent applications in the United States and selected foreign countries for anti EphA3 antibodies and their use, and we developed and own an issued U.S. composition of matter patent covering ifabotuzumab and related Humaneered anti EphA3 antibodies, which is currently expected to expire in 2030. The patents to our Humaneered technology cover methods of producing human antibodies that are very specific for target antigens using only a small region from mouse antibodies.

Research and Development

We have previously dedicated a significant portion of our resources to our efforts to develop our product candidates, particularly KB001-A, lenzilumab and ifabotuzumab. We incurred research and development expenses of $16.7 million and $26.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We anticipate that a significant portion of our operating expenses will continue to be related to clinical development in 2016 as we focus on the development necessary to seek and obtain FDA approval of benznidazole and restart our development of lenzilumab and potentially ifabotuzumab. We do not currently plan to devote significant or any resources to pure research activities.

Manufacturing

We outsource basic development activities, including the development of formulation prototypes, and have adopted a manufacturing strategy of contracting with third parties for the manufacture of drug substance and product. Additional contract manufacturers are used to fill, label, package, and distribute investigational drug products. This allows us to maintain a more flexible infrastructure while focusing our expertise on developing our products.

In addition, pursuant to the MDC Agreement, we acquired certain agreements for the third-party manufacture of drug substance and drug product for benznidazole, though we continue to evaluate our manufacturing approach and strategy.

Sales and Marketing

We do not currently have the sales and marketing infrastructure in place that would be necessary to sell and market products. As our drug candidates progress, while we may build the infrastructure that would be needed to successfully market and sell any successful drug candidate, we currently anticipate seeking strategic alliances and partnerships with third parties. The establishment of a sales and marketing operation can be expensive, complicated and time consuming and could delay any product candidate launch. Whether directly or through third parties, we intend to responsibly price any approved products using our Responsible Pricing Model, which could make it more difficult to enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, even if such a model were attractive to payers, clinicians and patients. 

Competition

We compete in an industry characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition, a changing regulatory and legislative landscape and a strong emphasis on the benefits of intellectual property protection and regulatory exclusivities. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies, other biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research organizations. We compete with these parties for therapies for neglected and rare diseases and in recruiting highly qualified personnel. Our product candidates, if successfully developed and approved, may compete with established therapies, with new treatments that may be introduced by our competitors, including competitors relying to a large extent on our drug approvals under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA or on our biologics approvals under Section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act, or with generic copies of our product approved by FDA under an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, referencing our drug products. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater scientific, research, and product development capabilities, as well as greater financial, marketing, sales and human resources capabilities than we do.

In addition, many specialized biotechnology firms have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support the research, development and commercialization of products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful with respect to their products than we may be in developing, commercializing, and achieving widespread market acceptance for our products. If a competitor obtains approval for an orphan drug that is the same drug or the same biologic as one of our candidates before we do, we will be blocked from obtaining FDA approval for seven years from the date of the competitor&#8217;s approval, unless we can establish that our product is clinically superior to the previously-approved competitor&#8217;s product or we can meet another exception, such as by showing that the competitor has failed to provide an adequate supply of its product to patients after approval. In addition, our competitors&#8217; products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than any treatment we or our development partners may commercialize and may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses related to developing and supporting the commercialization of any of our product candidates. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. After one of our product candidates is approved, FDA may also approve a generic version with the same dosage form, safety, strength, route of administration, quality, performance characteristics and intended use as our product. These generic equivalents would be less costly to bring to market and could generally be offered at lower prices, thereby limiting our ability to gain or retain market share.

The acquisition or licensing of pharmaceutical products is also very competitive, and a number of more established companies, which have acknowledged strategies to in-license or acquire products, may have competitive advantages as may other emerging companies taking similar or different approaches to product acquisitions. The more established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash flows, institutional experience and historical corporate reputation.

Benznidazole, Chagas Disease Therapeutics and Priority Review Voucher Competition

Other companies are either developing benznidazole for treatment of Chagas disease in the United States or are developing drug candidates that could compete with benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease in the future. We understand that Chemo Research, S.L. and ELEA (both associated with Grupo Insud) intend to seek FDA approval of benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease. Chemo Research, S.L. obtained orphan drug designation for benznidazole in Chagas disease in 2014. If a competitor with orphan drug designation for benznidazole for treating Chagas disease obtains approval before we do, we will be blocked by the competitor&#8217;s orphan drug exclusivity from receiving approval for benznidazole for seven years from the date of the competitor&#8217;s approval, unless we can meet an exception, such as by showing that the competitor has failed to provide an adequate supply of its product to patients after approval. Additionally, benznidazole is currently produced by LAFEPE and ELEA, and nifurtimox is currently produced by Bayer, for use in certain Latin American countries. Even if benznidazole is not approved in the United States, we will compete against LAFEPE and ELEA for distribution of benznidazole if we make benznidazole available in these countries. There are also a number of ongoing non-commercial studies of benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease.

Although there are no drugs for the treatment of Chagas disease commercially available in the United States, nifurtimox is also used to treat Chagas disease and is available in the United States through the CDC, as is benznidazole on a limited basis under a compassionate use protocol. Our understanding is that obtaining either drug can be burdensome and time-consuming for clinicians and patients and that many patients ultimately do not obtain treatment. Specifically, our understanding is that under the CDC protocol, patients require several confirmatory diagnostic tests and can often be lost to follow up. In addition, the CDC has been beset with sourcing problems because it sources from Latin American manufacturers who have had product supply issues. We are also aware of several other treatments undergoing commercial development for the treatment of Chagas disease. Bayer, which initially developed Lampit TM (the active ingredient of which is nifurtimox), annually supplies it to the WHO. Bayer is currently undertaking multiple clinical studies of nifurtimox for Chagas disease, including a Phase 3 study of a pediatric formulation. Bayer has obtained orphan drug designation for nifurtimox in Chagas disease as has MetronomX Therapeutics, LLC.

&#160;

&#160;

Other compounds that have undergone or are undergoing preclinical studies or clinical trials for Chagas disease include posaconazole, ravuconazole, Eisai Co. Ltd.&#8217;s E1224, and VNI, which has been studied at Vanderbilt University. In 2015, Merck Sharp &#38; Dohme completed a Phase 2 proof-of-activity study of Noxafil&#174; (posaconazole) in the treatment of asymptomatic chronic Chagas disease. Recent trials led by Eisai failed to show a benefit of E1224 (fosravuconazole) over benznidazole either in monotherapy or in combination with benznidazole. Eisai has also conducted research with the Broad Institute to discover and develop new therapeutic agents for Chagas disease, including a compound known as ML341. Eisai, Shionogi &#38; Co. Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical Ltd. and AstraZeneca plc are members of the Neglected Tropical Diseases Drug Discovery booster program, which aims in part to accelerate early stage drug discovery for Chagas disease. Other than Merck&#8217;s trial, most of these programs are in the pre-clinical or early clinical stages of development and we believe will take many years to reach the market, if at all.

Current legislation allows for issuance of a PRV upon approval of a product for the treatment of Chagas disease, provided that the product contains no active ingredient that has been approved by FDA in any other marketing application. Therefore, non-benznidazole treatments for Chagas disease may qualify, in some circumstances, if successfully approved, for PRVs. However, if any other drug with benznidazole as the active ingredient is approved by FDA, regardless of whether that approval is accompanied by a PRV, subsequently approved forms of benznidazole will not result in a PRV upon approval.

Lenzilumab and CMML/JMML Competition

Stem cell treatment is the only current way to cure patients with CMML or JMML. Adult patients with CMML unsuitable for stem cell transplants are frequently treated with injectable formulations of azacitidine, which is available as Celgene Corporation&#8217;s Vidaza&#174; or as a generic, or decitabine, available as Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.&#8217;s Dacogen&#174; or as a generic. Some patients with high white blood cell counts are treated with hydroxyurea, which was introduced in the 1960s and is available in generic formulations and under the brand names Droxia&#174; and Hydrea&#174;. We are also aware of numerous open trials for the treatment of CMML, including clinical trials of treatments under development by Celgene (CC-486 (oral azacitidine) and Revlimid&#174; (lenalidomide)), Novartis (panobinostat), Incyte Corporation and Novartis (Jafaki&#174; (ruxolitinib), Millenium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (pevonedistat plus azacitidine), Stemline Therapeutics, Inc. (SL-401) and Kura Oncology, Inc. (tipifarnib). There are also open trials for JMML, including of Amgen Inc.&#8217;s Enbrel&#174; (etanercept) and of tipifarnib and azacitidine. We anticipate that as new treatments are approved, they may be used in combination with other existing treatments for CMML and JMML.

Ifabotuzumab Competition

Numerous drugs are under development or approved for treatment of glioblastoma, MDS, myelofibrosis and for cancer and hematologic indications generally. Glioblastoma is also sometimes treated with surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy with temozolomide. MDS may be treated with transfusion therapy, immunosuppressive therapy, chemotherapy, Revlamid, azacitidine and/or decitabine. Myelofibrosis may be treated with stem cell transplants and various therapeutic treatments for anemia and enlarged spleen.

Government Regulation

Drug Development and Approval in the U.S.

As a biopharmaceutical company operating in the United States, we are subject to extensive regulation by FDA and by other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. FDA regulates our products under the FDCA, the Public Health Service Act, or the PHSA, and their implementing regulations. Under the FDCA, new drugs marketed in the United States generally must be FDA-approved under an NDA. Under the PHSA, an FDA-approved BLA is required to market a biological product, or biologic, in the United States. These laws and regulations set forth, among other things, requirements for preclinical and clinical testing, development, approval, labeling, manufacture, storage, record keeping, reporting, distribution, import, export, advertising, and promotion of our products and product candidates.

&#160;

&#160;

Applications Relying on the Applicant&#8217;s Clinical Data

The approval process for a full NDA under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA, containing full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness for the product, and BLAs under the PHSA require the conduct of extensive studies and the submission of large amounts of data by the applicant. The drug development process for these applications will generally include the following phases:

Preclinical Testing . Before testing any compound in human subjects in the United States, a company must generate extensive preclinical data. Preclinical testing generally includes laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological studies in several animal species to assess the quality and safety of the product. Animal studies must be performed in compliance with FDA&#8217;s Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, regulations and the United States Department of Agriculture&#8217;s Animal Welfare Act.

IND Application . Human clinical trials in the United States cannot commence until an IND application is submitted and becomes effective. A company must submit preclinical testing results to FDA as part of the IND, and FDA must evaluate whether there is an adequate basis for testing the drug in initial clinical studies in human volunteers. Unless FDA raises concerns, the IND becomes effective 30 days following its receipt by FDA. Once human clinical trials have commenced, FDA may stop the clinical trials by placing them on &#8220;clinical hold&#8221; because of concerns about the safety of the product being tested, or for other reasons.

Clinical Trials . Clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy human volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of a qualified investigator. The conduct of clinical trials is subject to extensive regulation, including compliance with FDA&#8217;s bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, requirements, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from, and reporting the results of clinical trials. GCP requirements are intended to assure that the data and reported results are credible and accurate, and that the rights, safety, and well-being of study participants are protected.

Clinical trials must be conducted under protocols that detail the study objectives, parameters for monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria, if any, to be evaluated. Each protocol is submitted to FDA as part of the IND. In addition, each clinical trial must be reviewed, approved, and conducted under the auspices of an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, at the institution conducting the clinical trial. Companies sponsoring the clinical trials, investigators, and IRBs also must comply with regulations and guidelines for obtaining informed consent from the study subjects, complying with the protocol and investigational plan, adequately monitoring the clinical trial, and timely reporting of adverse events. Foreign studies conducted under an IND must meet the same requirements that apply to studies being conducted in the United States. Data from a foreign study not conducted under an IND may be submitted in support of an NDA or BLA if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP and FDA is able to validate the data. A study sponsor is required to publicly post certain details about active clinical trials and clinical trial results on government or independent websites (e.g., http://clinicaltrials.gov).

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap with one another:

&#160; &#183; Phase 1 clinical trials include the initial administration of the investigational drug to humans, typically to a small group of healthy human subjects, but occasionally to a group of patients with the targeted disease or disorder. Phase 1 clinical trials generally are intended to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the drug, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence of effectiveness. 

&#160; &#183; Phase 2 clinical trials generally are controlled studies that involve a relatively small sample of the intended patient population, and are designed to develop data regarding the product&#8217;s effectiveness, to determine dose response and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. 

&#160; &#183; Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted after preliminary evidence of effectiveness has been obtained and are intended to gather additional information about safety and effectiveness necessary to evaluate the drug&#8217;s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Generally, Phase 3 clinical development programs consist of expanded, large-scale studies of patients with the target disease or disorder to obtain statistical evidence of the efficacy and safety of the drug at the proposed dosing regimen, or with the safety, purity, and potency of a biological product. 

The sponsoring company, FDA, or the IRB may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Further, success in early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be subject to alternative interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval.

NDA Applications Relying on Data Other than the Applicant&#8217;s Data

As an alternative path to FDA approval, an applicant may submit its NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Both NDA pathways have the same standards with respect to the scope and amount of data required to establish safety and efficacy for the applicant&#8217;s product. However, whereas applications under 505(b)(1) rely solely on the applicant&#8217;s own data, Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant, and for which the applicant has not otherwise obtained a right of reference.

Specifically, a 505(b)(2) application may rely on both published scientific literature and on FDA&#8217;s prior findings of safety and efficacy for a similar or comparable approved drug product. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on previous FDA findings of safety and effectiveness is scientifically and legally appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies and rely instead on FDA&#8217;s prior findings for the approved reference drug. FDA may still require companies to perform additional studies or measurements, including clinical trials, to support any change from the reference drug. FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the reference drug has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the 505(b)(2) applicant. While the 505(b)(2) pathway is most often used for modifications to formulations or for uses for products previously approved by FDA under the 505(b)(1) pathway, we believe it is an appropriate pathway for benznidazole, and we intend to use it to submit our NDA for benznidazole, which would allow us to rely, at least in part, on literature and clinical data generated by third-party entities. We cannot guarantee that FDA will allow us to seek approval for benznidazole under the 505(b)(2) pathway. If FDA does not allow us to utilize this pathway, we may need to conduct original clinical trials to generate data necessary for approval, a process that may require significant financial resources and extend the approval process. Even if FDA allows us to use the 505(b)(2) pathway, it may conclude that our data fails to demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval.

NDA/BLA Submission and Review

After completing clinical testing of an investigational drug or biologic product, a sponsor must prepare and submit an NDA or BLA for review and approval by FDA. NDAs and BLAs are comprehensive, multi-volume applications that include, among other things, the results of preclinical and clinical studies, information about the product&#8217;s composition, and the sponsor&#8217;s plans for manufacturing, packaging, and labeling the product. A 505(b)(2) NDA may also rely upon studies and data not generated by the NDA applicant. When an NDA or BLA is submitted, FDA conducts a preliminary review to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to be accepted for filing. If it is not, FDA may refuse to file the application and may request additional information, in which case the application must be resubmitted with the supplemental information and review of the application is delayed.

FDA performance goals, which are target dates and other aspirational measures of agency performance to which the agency, Congressional representatives, and industry agree through negotiations that occur every five years, generally provide for action on NDA and BLA applications within 10 months of submission, or 10 months from acceptance for filing for an NDA involving a new molecular entity or for an original BLA. FDA is not expected to meet those target dates for all applications, however, and the deadline may be extended in certain circumstances, such as when the applicant submits new data late in the review period. In practice, the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. In some circumstances, FDA can expedite the review of new drugs and biologics deemed to qualify for priority review, such as those intended to treat serious or life threatening conditions that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. In those cases, the targeted action date is six months from submission, or for drugs constituting new molecular entities and biologics constituting original biological products, six months from the date that FDA accepts the application for filing.

As part of its review, FDA may refer an NDA or BLA to an advisory committee for evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. Although FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, the agency usually has followed such recommendations. FDA may also determine that a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a new product outweigh its risks, and that the product can therefore be approved. A REMS may include various elements, ranging from a medication guide or patient package insert to limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, depending on what FDA considers necessary for the safe use of the drug. Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, NDAs and BLAs must include an assessment, generally based on clinical study data, of the safety and effectiveness of the subject drug or biological product in relevant pediatric populations, unless the requirement is waived or deferred.

After review of an NDA or BLA, FDA may determine that the product cannot be approved, or may determine that it can only be approved if the applicant cures deficiencies in the application, in which case the agency endeavors to provide the applicant with a complete list of the deficiencies in correspondence known as a Complete Response Letter, or CRL. A CRL may request additional information, including additional preclinical or clinical data. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, FDA may decide that the NDA still does not meet the standards for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and FDA may interpret data differently than the sponsor interprets them. Additionally, as a condition of approval, FDA may impose restrictions that could affect the commercial success of a drug or require post-approval commitments, including the completion within a specified time period of additional clinical studies, which often are referred to as &#8220;Phase 4&#8221; studies or &#8220;post-marketing requirements.&#8221; Obtaining regulatory approval often takes a number of years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources, and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments, and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials.

Post-approval modifications to the drug or biologic product, such as changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require a sponsor to develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials. The proposed changes would need to be submitted in a new or supplemental NDA or BLA, which would then require FDA approval.

Regulatory Exclusivities

Hatch-Waxman Act

The Hatch-Waxman Act established the ANDA and 505(b)(2) approval pathways to facilitate the approval of generic and follow-on drug products. At the same time, the Act provides periods of regulatory exclusivity to incentivize innovator drug development. If a product is a &#8220;new chemical entity,&#8221; or NCE, generally meaning that the active moiety has never before been approved by FDA, the Act provides a five-year period starting from the product&#8217;s approval date during which FDA may not accept for filing any application for a drug containing the same active moiety. Because it takes time for FDA to review and approve an application once it has been accepted for filing, five-year NCE exclusivity often effectively means that the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application is not approved for a period well beyond five years from approval of the RLD. We believe that benznidazole will qualify for five-year NCE exclusivity.

&#160;

&#160;

Notwithstanding NCE exclusivity, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application may be submitted after four years if the applicant makes a certification, known as a Paragraph IV certification due to its statutory citation, challenging a listed patent belonging to the holder of the original NDA, also referred to as the reference listed drug, or RLD. Once FDA accepts for filing an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application containing a Paragraph IV certification, no matter when the certification is made, the applicant must within 20 days provide notice to the RLD NDA holder and patent owner that the application with patent challenge has been submitted, and provide the factual and legal basis for the applicant&#8217;s assertion that the patent is invalid or not infringed. If the NDA holder or patent owner files suit against the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receiving the Paragraph IV notice, FDA is prohibited from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a period of 30 months from the date of receipt of the notice. If the RLD has NCE exclusivity and the notice is given and suit is filed during the fifth year of exclusivity, the 30-month stay does not begin until five years after the RLD approval. FDA may approve the proposed product before the expiration of the 30-month stay if a court finds the patent invalid or not infringed or if the court shortens the period because the parties have failed to cooperate in expediting the litigation. 

Qualified Infectious Disease Product

Under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now, or GAIN, provisions of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, signed into law in July 2012, FDA may designate a small-molecule drug product as a &#8220;qualified infectious disease product&#8221;, or QIDP. In order to receive this designation, a drug must be an antibacterial or antifungal drug for human use intended to treat serious or life-threatening infections, including those caused by either (1) an antibacterial or antifungal resistant pathogen, including novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or (2) a &#8220;qualifying pathogen&#8221; found on a list established and maintained by FDA. FDA promulgated a Final Rule in June 2014 listing 21 qualifying pathogens. Although none of our current product candidates meet the criteria for a QIDP, with our focus on rare and neglected diseases, we may develop or acquire a qualifying product in the future.

A sponsor may request designation as a QIDP before submitting an NDA. Upon approval, the designated product will receive an additional five years of exclusivity beyond any period of exclusivity to which it would have previously been eligible. In addition, a QIDP will receive the benefit of expedited review programs including priority review and Fast Track designation.

Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act

In 2010, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA, was enacted, creating an abbreviated approval pathway for biologic products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, reference biological products licensed under a BLA. The BPCIA also provides innovator manufacturers of original reference biological products 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilar versions can be licensed in the United States. This means that FDA may not approve an application for a biosimilar version of a reference biological product until 12 years after the date of approval of the reference biological product (with a potential six-month extension of exclusivity if certain pediatric studies are conducted and the results reported to FDA), although a biosimilar application may be submitted four years after the date of licensure of the reference biological product. Additionally, the BPCIA establishes procedures by which the biosimilar applicant must provide information about its application and product to the reference product sponsor, and by which information about potentially relevant patents is shared and litigation over patents may proceed in advance of approval, although the interpretation of those procedures has been subject to litigation and appears to continue to evolve. The BPCIA also provides a period of exclusivity for the first biosimilar to be determined by FDA to be interchangeable with the reference product.

FDA approved the first biosimilar product under the BPCIA in 2015, and the agency continues to refine the procedures and standards it will apply in implementing this approval pathway. FDA has released guidance documents interpreting specific aspects of the BPCIA in each of the last four years.

Orphan Drug Designation

The Orphan Drug Act provides incentives for the development of drugs and biological products intended to treat rare diseases or conditions. Rare diseases and conditions generally are those affecting less than 200,000 individuals in the United States, but also include diseases or conditions affecting more than 200,000 individuals in the United States if there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for such disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States of such drug.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug, including a biological product, is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, and meets certain other criteria, FDA grants orphan drug designation to the drug for that use. FDA may grant multiple designations for the same drug for the same indication, until that drug is approved. The first drug approved with an orphan drug designated indication is granted seven years of orphan drug exclusivity for that indication. During that period, FDA generally may not approve any other application for the same drug for the same indication, although there are exceptions, most notably when the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the product with exclusivity. FDA can also revoke a product&#8217;s orphan drug exclusivity under certain circumstances, including when the holder of the approved orphan drug application is unable to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet patient needs.

A sponsor of a product application that has received an orphan drug designation is also granted tax incentives for clinical research undertaken to support the application. In addition, FDA will typically coordinate with the sponsor on research study design for an orphan drug and may exercise its discretion to grant marketing approval on the basis of more limited product safety and efficacy data than would ordinarily be required, based on the limited size of the applicable patient population.

Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions

FDA has implemented a number of expedited programs to help ensure that therapies for serious or life-threatening conditions, and for which there is unmet medical need, are approved and available to patients as soon as it can be concluded that the therapies&#8217; benefits justify their risks. Among these programs are the following:

Fast Track Designation

FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and where non-clinical or clinical data demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical need for such a disease or condition. A product can also receive fast track review if it is designated as a QIDP.

For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with FDA and FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#8217;s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. Furthermore, FDA&#8217;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the complete NDA is submitted. Finally, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by FDA if FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process.

Breakthrough Therapy

A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The designation includes all of the features of Fast Track designation, as well as more intensive FDA interaction and guidance. FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design efficient clinical trials.

Accelerated Approval

Under the accelerated approval pathway, FDA may approve a drug or biologic based on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit; qualifying products must target a serious or life-threatening illness and provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions, or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or to confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by FDA. Although none of our current product candidates meet the criteria for accelerated approval, with our focus on rare and neglected diseases, we may develop or acquire a qualifying product in the future.

Priority Review

FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a drug that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. FDA generally determines, on a case-by-case basis, whether the proposed drug represents a significant improvement in safety and effectiveness when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting drug reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and will shorten FDA&#8217;s goal for taking action on a marketing application from the standard ten months to an accelerated six months.

Tropical Disease PRVs

Under Section 524 of the FDCA, FDA is authorized to award PRVs to the sponsors of NDAs and BLAs for products targeting specific tropical diseases. A product only qualifies for a PRV if it contains active ingredients that have never before been approved by FDA. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 contained a list of sixteen initial qualifying tropical diseases; FDA classified Chagas disease and another disease as PRV-eligible diseases in a 2015 order. A sponsor receives a PRV at the time that their eligible product is approved.

The PRV program allows the voucher holder to obtain priority review for a product application that would otherwise not receive priority review, shortening FDA&#8217;s target review period to six months following the 60-day filing date, or four months shorter than the standard review period. The voucher may be used by the sponsor who receives it, or it may be sold to another sponsor for use in that sponsor&#8217;s own marketing application. The sponsor who uses the voucher is required to pay additional user fees on top of the standard user fee for reviewing an NDA or BLA. We believe that the approval of benznidazole as a treatment for Chagas disease could result in the issuance of a PRV under the current program if our version of benznidazole is the first version approved by FDA.

Rare Pediatric Disease PRVs

FDA&#8217;s rare pediatric disease PRV program allows FDA to grant PRVs to NDA or BLA sponsors who receive approval for a product targeting a rare pediatric disease, defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., primarily aged from birth to 18 years. As with the tropical disease PRV program, PRV-holders can redeem their voucher to receive an accelerated six-month FDA action goal instead of the standard ten-month window, or they may transfer or sell their PRV to another sponsor. We believe that lenzilumab or other future product candidates that we may develop or acquire may qualify for a PRV under this program.

Authorization for the current pediatric PRV program is scheduled to expire on October 1, 2016, unless renewed by Congress. The Advancing Hope Act of 2016, which was placed on the Senate Legislative Calendar in April 2016, would allow FDA to approve products with a pediatric PRV through September 2027. There is no certainty as to whether the current pediatric PRV will be renewed, or if it is renewed, what changes there may be.

&#160;

&#160;

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had 9 employees, and as of June 30, 2016 we had 6 employees and several full and part-time consultants. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Bankruptcy

In January 2015, shortly after announcing that our Phase 2 clinical trial of KB001-A had not met its primary or secondary endpoints, we implemented a cost reduction plan that primarily consisted of workforce reductions. On November 5, 2015, as part of a further effort to reduce operating costs, we announced a restructuring plan that would reduce our workforce and change the focus of our development programs. The restructuring plan provided that we would pursue strategic alternatives, such as a potential sale of the Company or its assets or further restructuring efforts. On November 13, 2015, we announced that after discussions of various strategic alternatives, we concluded that it was unlikely that a viable transaction could be reached within the timeframe allowed by our then-limited cash resources. On November 18, 2015, an outside investor group acquired a majority of our outstanding shares and one of the investors was appointed our chief executive officer and chairman. In December 2015, we issued and sold shares of common stock to investors in a private placement, whom we refer to as the PIPE Investors. Shortly thereafter, on December 17, 2015, our then-chief executive officer and chairman was arrested on charges of securities fraud, securities fraud conspiracy and wire fraud conspiracy, was terminated as our chief executive officer and resigned from our board of directors. Three other directors and our interim chief financial officer resigned between December 17 and December 28, 2015. Our independent registered accounting firm also resigned on December 8, 2015. Finally, in December 2015, three putative class action lawsuits were filed against us and the PIPE Investors threatened a lawsuit against us for return of the funds they paid in the private placement.

As a result of these events and other challenges facing us at the time, on December 29, 2015, we filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The filing was made in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, or the Bankruptcy Court (Case No. 15-12628 (LSS)). During the pendency of our bankruptcy proceedings, we entered into a Debtor-in-Possession Credit and Security Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, pursuant to which we received $3 million in funds for working capital, bankruptcy-related costs, costs related to our plan of reorganization, payment of certain fees to the lenders and other costs associated with the ordinary course of business.

On May 9, 2016, we filed with the Bankruptcy Court a Second Amended Plan of Reorganization, or the Plan, and related amended disclosure statement pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. On June 16, 2016, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan.

On June 30, 2016, the Plan became effective and we emerged from our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. In connection with the emergence, we entered into the MDC Agreement with Savant, pursuant to which we acquired certain worldwide rights relating to benznidazole. In two separate issuances, pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement and in repayment of our obligations under the Credit Agreement, on June 30, 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,497,515 shares of our common stock to the lenders in the Credit Agreement. In accordance with the Plan, we also issued or became obligated to issue promissory notes or shares of our common stock to certain other parties.

Available Information

We were incorporated in 2000 and reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in September 2001. Our principal offices are located at 1000 Marina Boulevard, Suite 250, Brisbane, CA 94005-1878, and our telephone number is (650) 243&#8209;3100. Our website address is www.kalobios.com. Our common stock is currently traded over-the-counter. We operate in a single segment.

Our website and the information contained on, or that can be accessed through, the website will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and are not considered part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.kalobios.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

&#160;

&#160;

