 Item 1. Business. 

Our Company

Our Company began in 1945 under the name Dixie Supply Company in Florence, Alabama. Although we initially specialized primarily in the marine and small aircraft business, by 1960, we were solely in the sporting goods business. In 1965, we opened our second store, Dyess &#38; Hibbett Sporting Goods, in Huntsville, Alabama, and hired Mickey Newsome, who is now Chairman of our Board. The following year, we opened another sporting goods store in Birmingham and by the end of 1980, we had 12 stores in central and northwest Alabama with a distribution center located in Birmingham and our central accounting office in Florence. We became a public company in October 1996.

Today, we operate athletic specialty stores in small and mid-sized markets predominantly in the South, Southwest, Mid-Atlantic and the Midwest regions of the United States. As of January 30, 2016, we operated 1,044 stores consisting of 1,024 Hibbett Sports stores and 20 smaller-format Sports Additions athletic shoe stores in 33 states. Our primary retail format and growth vehicle is Hibbett Sports, an approximately 5,000 square foot store located primarily in strip centers which are frequently influenced by a Wal-Mart store. Approximately 81% of our Hibbett Sports store base is located in strip centers, which includes free-standing stores, while approximately 19% of our Hibbett Sports store base is located in enclosed malls. We expect to continue our store base growth in strip centers versus enclosed malls.

We offer convenient locations and a broad assortment of quality brand name footwear, apparel, accessories and athletic equipment at competitive prices in a full service environment. We believe that the breadth and depth of our brand name merchandise consistently exceeds the product selection carried by most of our competitors, particularly in our smaller markets. Many of these brand name products are highly technical and require knowledgeable sales assistance. We educate our sales staff on new products and trends through coordinated efforts with our vendors.

Available Information

Hibbett Sports, Inc.'s website address is www.hibbett.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, reports on beneficial ownership of our securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The website is the primary source of publicly disclosed news about Hibbett Sports, Inc. In addition to accessing copies of our reports online, you may request a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2016, at no charge, by writing to: Investor Relations, Hibbett Sports, Inc., 2700 Milan Court, Birmingham, Alabama 35211. 

&#160;

The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov where reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically can be accessed. In addition, we make available, through our website, the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the written charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Information contained on our website is not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report. 

Our Business Strategy

We target small, isolated communities with branded products and provide a high level of customer service. Our strong focus on small communities enables us to achieve significant cost benefits including lower corporate expenses, reduced logistics costs and increased economies of scale from marketing activities. We use information systems to maintain tight controls over inventory and operating costs and continually search for ways to improve efficiencies and the customer experience through information system upgrades. In addition, we establish greater customer, vendor and landlord recognition as a leading athletic specialty retailer in these communities. We believe our ability to align our merchandising mix to local preferences and trends differentiates us from our national competitors.

We strive to hire enthusiastic sales people with an interest in sports. Our extensive training program focuses on product knowledge and selling skills and is conducted through the use of in-store clinics, DVDs, self-study courses, interactive group discussions and Hibbett University designed specifically for store management.

Our Store Concepts

Hibbett Sports

Our primary retail format is Hibbett Sports, an approximately 5,000 square foot store located primarily in strip centers, which are usually near a Wal-Mart store. In considering locations for our Hibbett Sports stores, we take into account the size, demographics, quality of real estate and competitive conditions in each market. Of these stores, 840 Hibbett Sports stores are located in strip centers, which include free-standing stores, with the remaining 184 stores located in enclosed malls, the majority of which are the only enclosed malls in their county.

Hibbett Sports stores offer a core merchandising mix of localized apparel, footwear, equipment and accessories designed to appeal to a wide range of customers within each market. We strive to respond quickly to major sporting events such as Bowl or National Championship games and similar sporting events in college or major league baseball, football and basketball involving teams of local interest within our markets.

Sports Additions

Our 20 Sports Additions stores are small, primarily enclosed mall-based stores, averaging 2,500 square feet with approximately 90% of merchandise consisting of athletic footwear and the remainder consisting of caps and a limited assortment of apparel. Sports Additions stores offer a more fashion-based merchandise assortment compared to our Hibbett Sports stores. All &#160; but six Sports Additions stores are currently located in enclosed malls or strip centers where a Hibbett Sports store is also present. 

Team

Hibbett Team Sales, Inc. (Team), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a supplier of customized athletic apparel, equipment and footwear primarily to school athletic programs in Alabama and parts of Georgia, Florida and Mississippi. Team sells its merchandise directly to educational institutions and youth associations. The operations of Team are independent of the operations of our retail stores.

None of our store concepts meets the quantitative or qualitative requirements of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting .

&#160;

Our Growth Strategy

We identify markets for our Hibbett Sports stores under a clustered expansion program. This approach primarily focuses on opening new stores within two-hour driving distance of an existing Hibbett location, allowing us to take advantage of efficiencies in logistics, marketing and regional management. It also aids us in building a better understanding of appropriate merchandise selection for the local market. In addition to proximity to existing Hibbett stores, we also consider population, economic conditions, local competitive dynamics, availability of suitable real estate and potential for return on investment when evaluating potential markets.

In Fiscal 2017, we expect continued growth of our net store openings year over year. In addition to new stores, we will also continue our successful strategy of expanding high performing existing stores. See " Risk Factors . " 

Omni-channel strategy. Store growth will continue to be the cornerstone of our growth strategy. However, we recognize that our customer is evolving and looking to engage with us in multiple ways. We continue to invest in infrastructure that will enable us to engage our customer specifically in the digital commerce channel. The foundational components for our future e-commerce platform began in Fiscal 2015 with the completion of our wholesale and logistics facility. The second foundational component began in Fiscal 2016 with an upgrade to our point-of-sale (POS) system.

Phase I of our POS upgrade will provide inventory visibility across all stores and will facilitate Store-to-Store transfers to complete a customer sale. This functionality is expected to be operational in the third quarter of Fiscal 2017. This phase will also include a new Customer Relationship Management (CRM) capability, which will allow us to more effectively communicate and market to our database of over 5 million loyalty members. Phase II will enable a Store-to-Home capability, and is expected to be in pilot by the end of Fiscal 2017. This phase will allow us to use our chain-wide inventory to satisfy a customer sale by shipping directly to the customer's home. Phase III will enable digital commerce and is expected to launch in the back half of Fiscal 2018. Once implemented, digital commerce will be fully integrated with our brick and mortar stores, and will provide a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.

Our Logistics

We maintain a single wholesale and logistics facility in Alabaster, Alabama (a suburb of Birmingham) where we receive and ship substantially all of our merchandise. For key products, we maintain backstock at the facility that is allocated and shipped to stores through an automatic replenishment system based on inventory levels and sales. Merchandise is typically delivered to stores weekly via Company-operated vehicles or third-party logistics providers.

See " Risk Factors ." 

We believe strong logistics support for our stores is a critical element of our expansion strategy and is central to our ability to maintain a low cost operating structure. We use third-party logistics providers to gain efficiencies to approximately 25% of our outlying stores. Our wholesale and logistics facility is designed with significant automation and operational efficiencies. We expect the facility will support our growth over the next several years.

Our Merchandise

Our &#160; merchandising strategy is to provide a broad assortment of quality brand name footwear, apparel, accessories and athletic equipment at competitive prices in a full service environment.

The following table indicates the approximate percentage of net sales represented by each of our major product categories:

&#160; &#160; Fiscal 2016

&#160; Fiscal 2015

&#160; Fiscal 2014

Footwear

&#160;

49%

&#160;

47%

&#160;

45%

Apparel

&#160; 29%

&#160; 31%

&#160; 32%

Equipment

&#160;

22%

&#160;

22%

&#160;

23%

&#160; &#160; 100%

&#160; 100%

&#160; 100%

We believe that the breadth and the depth of brand name merchandise that we offer consistently exceed the merchandise selection carried by most of our competitors, particularly in our smaller markets. Many of these brand name products are highly technical and require considerable sales assistance. We coordinate with our vendors to educate the sales staff at the store level on new products and trends.

Although the core merchandise assortment tends to be similar for each Hibbett store, important local or regional differences exist. Accordingly, our stores offer products that reflect preferences for particular sporting activities in each community and local interests in college and professional sports teams. Our knowledge of these interests, combined with access to leading vendors, enables our merchandising staff to react quickly to emerging trends or special events, such as college or professional championships.

Our merchandising staff, operations staff and management analyze current trends primarily through the gathering and analyzing of daily sales activity and utilization of our business intelligence tool. Other strategic measures we utilize to recognize trends or changes in our industry include:

&#183; maintaining close relationships with vendors and other retailers; 

&#183; studying other retailers for best practices in merchandising; 

&#183; attending various trade shows, both in our industry and outside as well as reviewing industry trade publications; 

&#183; actively participating in industry associations such as the National Sporting Goods Association (NSGA); 

&#183; visiting competitor store locations; 

&#183; monitoring industry data sources and periodicals; 

&#183; monitoring product selection at competing stores and online; and 

&#183; communicating with our regional vice presidents, district managers and store managers. 

The merchandising staff works closely with store personnel to meet the requirements of individual stores for appropriate merchandise in sufficient quantities. See " Risk Factors ." 

Our Vendor Relationships

The athletic specialty retail business is brand name driven. Accordingly, we maintain positive relationships with a number of well-known vendors to satisfy customer demand. We believe that our stores are among the primary retail distribution avenues for brand name vendors that seek to penetrate our target markets. As a result, we are able to attract considerable vendor interest and establish long-term partnerships with vendors. As our vendors expand their product lines and grow in popularity, we expand sales of these products within our stores. In addition, as we continue to increase our store base and enter new markets, our vendors increase their brand presence within these regions. We also work with our vendors to establish favorable pricing and to receive cooperative marketing funds. See " Risk Factors ." 

Our Information Systems

We use technology as an enabler of our business strategies. We have implemented systems targeted at improving financial control, cost management, inventory control, merchandise planning, logistics, replenishment, and product allocation. In recent years, we have focused on information systems that are designed to be used in all stores, yet are flexible enough to meet the unique needs of each specific store location.

A communications network sends and receives critical business data to and from our stores, providing timely and extensive information on business activity in every location. Our information is processed in a secure environment to protect both the actual data and the physical assets. We attempt to mitigate the risk of cyber-security threats and business interruptions by maintaining strong security protocols and a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical business information off-site.

&#160;

We strive to maintain highly qualified and motivated individuals to support our information systems, which includes security, help desk, development, engineering, system analysts, business analysts and project managers. Our systems are monitored 24 hours a day. Our management believes that our current systems and practice of implementing regular updates position us well to support current needs and future growth. We use a strategic information systems planning process that involves senior management and is integrated into our overall business planning and enterprise risk management. Information systems projects are prioritized based upon strategic, financial, regulatory and other business criteria.

Our Advertising and Promotion

We target advertising opportunities in our markets to increase the effectiveness of our advertising budget. Our advertising and promotional spending is centrally directed. Print advertising, including direct mail pieces and postcards to customers, has historically served as the foundation of our promotional program and accounted for the majority of our total advertising costs in Fiscal 2016. We expect this trend to continue in Fiscal 2017. Other advertising, such as our MVP customer loyalty program, e-mail and mobile marketing, the Hibbett website, social media, Hibbett trucks and outdoor billboards are used to reinforce Hibbett's name recognition and brand awareness. By allowing us to reach and interact with our customers on a consistent basis through e-mail and mobile devices, the MVP program marketing effort has become the most efficient, timely and targeted segment of our marketing program. Digital marketing, including mobile devices, social networks, website and MVP program marketing, is expected to become a more significant portion of our advertising budget over the next several years.

Our Competition

The business in which we are engaged is highly competitive. The marketplace for athletic specialty merchandise is highly fragmented as many different brick and mortar and online retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of formats and merchandising strategies. We compete with department and discount stores, traditional shoe stores, specialty sporting goods shops, local sporting goods stores, outlet centers, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and, in some of our large and mid-size markets, national sporting goods superstores. In addition, we face competition from vendors that sell directly to consumers.

Although we &#160; face competition from a variety of competitors, we believe that our stores are able to compete effectively by providing a premium assortment of footwear, apparel, accessories and team sports merchandise. Additionally, we differentiate our store experience through extensive product knowledge, customer service and convenient locations. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors in the smaller markets predominantly in the South, Southwest, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the United States. See " Risk Factors ." 

Our Trademarks

Our Company, by and through subsidiaries, is the owner or licensee of trademarks that are very important to our business. For the most part, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use.

Following is a list of active trademarks registered and owned by the Company:

&#183; Hibbett Sports, Registration No. 2717584 

&#183; Sports Additions, Registration No. 1767761 

&#183; Hibbett, Registration No. 3275037 

Our Executive Officers

Our current executive officers and their prior business experience are as follows:

Jeffry O. Rosenthal , age 58, has been our Chief Executive Officer and President since March 2010. He also currently serves on our Board of Directors. Formerly, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2009 through March 2010 and as Vice President of Merchandising from August 1998 through February 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. Rosenthal was Vice President and Divisional Merchandise Manager for Apparel with Champs Sports, a division of Foot Locker, Inc. from 1981 to 1998.

&#160;

Scott J. Bowman , age 49, was hired as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Bowman was Division Chief Financial Officer &#8211; Northern Division of The Home Depot, a large home improvement retailer. Previously, Mr. Bowman served The Home Depot as their Senior Director, Finance &#8211; IT for approximately three years. In prior retail experience, he has worked in various controller and accounting management positions.

Jared S. Briskin , age 43, was appointed our Senior Vice President and Chief Merchant in September 2014. Formerly, he served as Vice President/Divisional Merchandise Manager of Footwear and Equipment from March 2010 through September 2014 and Vice President/Divisional Merchandise Manager of Apparel and Equipment from June 2004 through March 2010. Prior to his appointment to Vice President in 2004, Mr. Briskin held various merchandising positions across multiple categories since joining the Company in April 1998.

Cathy E. Pryor , age 52, has been our Senior Vice President of Operations since 2012. Formerly, she served as Vice President of Operations from 1995 to 2012. She joined our Company in 1988 serving in areas of increasing responsibility including district manager and Director of Store Operations.

Our Employees

As of January 30, 2016, we employed approximately 3,300 full-time and approximately 5,600 part-time employees, none of whom are represented by a labor union. The number of part-time employees fluctuates depending on seasonal needs. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. We have implemented programs in our stores and corporate offices to ensure that we hire and promote the most qualified employees in a non-discriminatory way.

Employee Development. We develop our training programs in a continuing effort to service the needs of our customers and employees. These programs include DVD training in all stores for the latest in technical detail of new products and new operational and customer service techniques. Because we primarily promote or relocate current employees to serve as managers for new stores, training and assessment of our employees is essential to our sustained growth.

One of the most significant training programs we have is Hibbett University or "Hibbett U", which is an intensive, five-day session designed specifically for store management.

Seasonality

We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and results of operations. Customer buying patterns around the spring sales period and the winter holiday season historically result in higher first and fourth quarter net sales. Our third quarter experiences higher net sales during the back-to-school shopping period combined with tax-free holidays in many of our markets. In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including the amount and timing of net sales contributed by new stores, merchandise mix and demand for apparel and accessories driven by local interest in sporting events, significant weather events, and the timing of tax-free holidays and tax refunds.

