 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS 

General 

HomeStreet, Inc. is a diversified financial services company founded in 1921 &#32;headquartered in Seattle, Washington and serving customers primarily in the western United States, including Hawaii. The Company is principally engaged in real estate lending, including mortgage banking activities, and commercial and consumer banking. Our primary subsidiaries are HomeStreet Bank and HomeStreet Capital Corporation. The Bank is a Washington state-chartered commercial bank that provides consumer, mortgage and commercial loans, deposit products and services, non-deposit investment products, private banking and cash management services. Our primary loan products include consumer loans, single family residential mortgages, loans secured by commercial real estate, construction loans for residential and commercial real estate projects, commercial business loans and agricultural loans. HomeStreet Capital Corporation, a Washington corporation, originates, sells and services multifamily mortgage loans under the Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting and Servicing Program (&#8220;DUS" &#174; ) 1 in conjunction with HomeStreet Bank. Doing business as HomeStreet Insurance Agency, we provide insurance products and services for consumers and businesses. We also offer single family home loans through our partial ownership of WMS Series LLC, an affiliated business arrangement with various owners of Windermere Real Estate Company franchises whose home loan businesses are known as Windermere Mortgage Services and Penrith Home Loans. 

Shares of our common stock are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol &#8220;HMST.&#8221; 

At December 31, 2015 , we had total assets of $4.89 billion , net loans held for investment of $3.19 billion , deposits of $3.23 billion &#32;and shareholders&#8217; equity of $465.3 million . 

We generate revenue by earning net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income is primarily the difference between interest income earned on loans and investment securities less the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. We earn noninterest income from the origination, sale and servicing of loans and from fees earned on deposit services and investment and insurance sales. 

At December 31, 2015 , we had a network of 44 &#32;retail deposit branches located in Washington state, Southern California, Portland, Oregon and Hawaii, as well as 64 &#32;stand-alone lending centers located both within our retail deposit branch footprint as well as in Phoenix, Arizona; northern California (including the San Francisco Bay Area); Eugene, Salem and Bend, Oregon; the Denver area of Colorado; Spokane, Washington and Boise and northern Idaho. We also have a construction lending office in Salt Lake City, Utah. WMS Series LLC provides point-of-sale loan origination services at 41 &#32;Windermere Real Estate offices in Washington and Oregon. On February 1, 2016, we added one retail deposit branch and related business banking operations in Irvine, California with the acquisition of Orange County Business Bank ("OCBB"). 

Commercial and Consumer Banking . We provide diversified financial products and services to our commercial and consumer customers through bank branches, ATMs, and online, mobile and telephone banking. These products and services include deposit products; residential, consumer, business and agricultural loans for our portfolio; non-deposit investment products; insurance products and cash management services. We originate construction loans, bridge loans and permanent loans for the Company's portfolio, primarily on single family residences, and on office, retail, industrial and multifamily properties. We originate multifamily real estate loans through our Fannie Mae DUS business, whereby loans are sold to or securitized by Fannie Mae, while the Company generally retains the servicing rights. This segment is also responsible for managing the Company's investment securities portfolio. 

During the first quarter of 2015, we launched HomeStreet commercial capital as a division of HomeStreet Bank. HomeStreet commercial capital is an Orange County, California-based commercial real estate lending group originating permanent loans primarily up to $10 million in principal amount, a portion of which we intend to pool and sell into the secondary market. We also added a team specializing in U.S. Small Business Administration ("SBA") lending which is also located in Orange County, California. 

Mortgage Banking. &#32;We originate single family residential mortgage loans for sale in the secondary markets. The majority of our mortgage loans are sold to or securitized by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, while we retain the right to service these loans. We have become a rated originator and servicer of jumbo loans, allowing us to sell the loans we originate to other entities for inclusion in securities. Additionally, we purchase loans from WMS Series LLC through a correspondent arrangement with that company. We also sell loans on a servicing-released and servicing-retained basis to securitizers and correspondent lenders. A small percentage of our loans are brokered to other lenders or sold on a servicing-released basis to correspondent lenders. On occasion, we may sell a portion of our mortgage servicing rights ("MSR") portfolio. We manage the 

1 DUS&#174; is a registered trademark of Fannie Mae 

&#160; 

loan funding and the interest rate risk associated with the secondary market loan sales and the retained single family mortgage servicing rights within this business segment. 

Expansion Activities 

Through the 2013 acquisitions of Fortune Bank ("Fortune") and Yakima National Bank ("YNB"), we increased our commercial business loan portfolio, added experienced commercial lending officers and managers, and grew our presence in Washington state. During 2014 and into 2015, we continued to expand our banking and lending operations as well as our geographic footprint. 

On March 1, 2015, we entered the retail banking market in Southern California with our acquisition of Simplicity Bancorp, Inc. ("Simplicity"), acquiring seven &#32;retail deposit branches in the Los Angeles area. This provided our Southern California operations with a significant retail deposit customer base, reducing our reliance on time deposits and increasing our portfolio of single family mortgage loans. Simplicity's results of operations are included in the consolidated results of operations since the date of the merger. 

In early 2015, we further expanded into Orange County, California with the launch of HomeStreet commercial capital and a team specializing in SBA lending. Through HomeStreet commercial capital, our commercial real estate lending group provides permanent financing for a range of commercial real estate property types including multifamily, industrial, retail, office, mobile home parks and self-storage facilities. 

On December 11, 2015, we acquired a retail deposit branch and certain related assets in Dayton, Washington. This acquisition increased HomeStreet&#8217;s network of branches in Eastern Washington to a total of five retail deposit branches. 

Recent Developments 

On February 1, 2016, we acquired Orange County Business Bank ("OCBB"), a California banking corporation in Irvine, California. Management believes that this acquisition complements HomeStreet's recent expansion of its commercial and consumer banking activities into Southern California. 

Reflecting the continued growth and diversification of our banking business, we converted the Bank to a Washington state chartered commercial bank on February 28, 2016. To facilitate this bank charter conversion, HomeStreet, Inc. also became a bank holding company and elected to become a financial holding company effective on the same date. 

Business Strategy 

During 2015, we made significant progress in building a strong foundation for growth and diversification. We grew our Commercial and Consumer Banking segment by expanding our business development capacity and our geographic footprint through hiring additional loan officers and adding 11 &#32;retail deposit branches, three &#32;de novo and eight through acquisitions. The 2016 acquisition of OCBB adds another retail deposit branch in Southern California. In our Mortgage Banking segment, we continued to build on our heritage as a single family mortgage lender by increasing the number of mortgage lending offices within our current footprint, including significant growth in California while also expanding into Arizona, along with targeted hiring throughout our network of mortgage lending offices. 

We are pursuing the following strategies in our business segments: 

Commercial and Consumer Banking. &#32;Our Commercial and Consumer Banking strategy involves organic growth and strategic acquisitions along with improvements in operations and productivity intended to drive cost efficiencies. Through our acquisitions of Fortune and YNB in November 2013, we increased our portfolio of commercial business loans and added experienced commercial lending officers and managers, increasing our commercial banking presence in the Puget Sound area through the Fortune acquisition and expanding into central and eastern Washington through our acquisition of YNB. In March 2015, we entered the retail banking market in Southern California with our acquisition of Simplicity, and further expanded our commercial banking presence there with the opening of two Orange County based commercial lending teams, HomeStreet commercial capital and our SBA lending team. The 2016 acquisition of OCBB adds another retail deposit branch to our Southern California presence, and we expect to continue to grow our commercial real estate and residential construction lending in Southern California and to continue building teams that are well located throughout our footprint to provide commercial banking services generally, including SBA lending. 

We plan to expand our commercial real estate business with a focus on multifamily mortgage origination, including through our Fannie Mae DUS origination and servicing relationships. We expect to continue to benefit from being one of only 25 companies nationally that is an approved Fannie Mae DUS seller and servicer. In addition, we will continue to support our DUS program by providing new construction and short-term bridge loans to experienced borrowers who intend to build or purchase apartment buildings for renovation, which we then seek to replace with permanent financing upon completion of the projects. We also originate commercial real estate construction loans, bridge loans and permanent loans for our portfolio, primarily on office, retail, industrial and multifamily property types located within the Company's geographic footprint and may in the future place those types of loans with capital market sources such as life insurance companies. 

On the retail side, we seek to meet the financial needs of our consumer and business customers through our retail deposit branches by providing targeted banking products and services, investment services and products, and insurance products through our bank branches and through dedicated investment advisors, insurance agents and business banking officers. We intend to grow our network of retail deposit branches and in turn grow our core deposits and increase business deposits from new cash management and business lending customers, primarily focusing on high-growth areas of Puget Sound and California, building loyalty with our customers and growing market share. The expansion of our branch network in 2015, including through our acquisitions in Southern California, is a part of this strategy. 

We are also in the process of growing our consumer banking business in central and eastern Washington, and in late 2015 we acquired one additional retail deposit branch in eastern Washington. We intend to continue to add de novo retail deposit branches in new and existing markets. 

Mortgage Banking. &#32;We have leveraged our reputation for high quality service and reliable loan closing to increase our single family mortgage market share significantly over the last five years. In addition, we plan to continue to grow our business in the western U.S. through targeted hiring of loan originators with successful track records and an emphasis on purchase mortgage transactions. We intend to continue to focus on conventional conforming and government insured or guaranteed single family mortgage origination. We will also continue to offer portfolio loan products to complement secondary market lending, particularly for well-qualified borrowers with loan sizes greater than the conventional conforming limits. There will also be continued focus on increasing efficiency within our fulfillment, servicing and compliance departments. 

For a discussion of operating results of these lines of business, see "Business Segments" &#32;within Management's Discussion and Analysis of this Form 10-K. 

Market and Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete with other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies, and investment and mutual fund companies. In particular, we compete with many financial institutions with greater resources, including the capacity to make larger loans, fund extensive advertising campaigns and offer a broader array of products and services. The number of competitors for middle-market business customers has, however, decreased in recent years primarily due to consolidations. At the same time, national banks have been focused on larger customers to achieve economies of scale in lending and depository relationships and have also consolidated business banking operations and support and reduced service levels in the Pacific Northwest. We have taken advantage of the failures and takeovers of certain of our competitors by recruiting well-qualified employees and attracting new customers who seek long-term stability, local decision-making, quality products and outstanding expertise and customer service. We believe there is a significant opportunity for a well-capitalized, community-focused bank that emphasizes responsive and personalized service to provide a full range of financial services to small- and middle-market commercial and consumer customers in markets that are not well served by existing community banks focused on that demographic, including Southern California. Accordingly, during 2014 we opened additional home lending centers in Southern California while also expanding our home loan production into Arizona, and in 2015 we increased our presence in Southern California through the acquisition of Simplicity Bank and its seven retail branch network. We have continued to increase our presence in Southern California by adding commercial lending teams and additional single family mortgage loan production personnel. In 2016, we added another retail deposit branch and increased our commercial lending business further with the acquisition of Orange County Business Bank. 

We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of changes in the single family mortgage origination and servicing industry that have helped to reduce the number of competitors. The mortgage industry is compliance-intensive and requires significant expertise and internal control systems to ensure mortgage loan origination and servicing providers meet all origination, processing, underwriting, servicing and disclosure requirements. The recently implemented TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (commonly known as "TRID") requirements have substantially increased documentation requirements and responsibilities for the mortgage industry, further complicating work flow and increasing training costs, thereby increasing 

barriers to entry and costs of operations across the mortgage industry. The new rules have added to the work involved in originating mortgage loans and added to processing costs for all mortgage originators. In some cases, these new rules have lengthened the time needed to close loans. These added requirements, increased costs and additional compliance burdens are causing some competitors to exit the industry. Mortgage lenders must make significant investments in experienced personnel and specialized systems to manage the compliance process, which creates a significant barrier to entry. In addition, lending in conventional and government guaranteed or insured mortgage products, including Federal Housing Administration ("FHA") and Department of Veterans' Affairs ("VA") loans, requires significantly higher capitalization than had previously been required for mortgage brokers and non-bank mortgage companies. 

In addition to TRID, our single family mortgage origination and servicing business is highly dependent upon compliance with underwriting and servicing guidelines of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA, VA and Ginnie Mae as well as a myriad of federal and state consumer compliance regulations. However, our demonstrated expertise in these activities, together with our significant volume of lending in low- and moderate-income areas and direct community investment, contribute to our uninterrupted record of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) ratings since 1986. We believe our historically strong compliance culture represents a significant competitive advantage in today's market, especially in the face of increasing regulatory compliance requirements. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 &#32;we employed 2,139 &#32;full-time equivalent employees, compared to 1,611 &#32;full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2014 . 

Where You Can Obtain Additional Information 

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We make available free of charge on or through our website http://www.homestreet.com &#32;all of these reports (and all amendments thereto), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these materials with the SEC. Please note that the contents of our website do not constitute a part of our reports, and those contents are not incorporated by reference into this report or any of our other securities filings. You may review a copy of our reports, including exhibits and schedules filed therewith, and obtain copies of such materials at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding registrants, such as HomeStreet, that file electronically with the SEC. 

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

The following is a brief description of certain laws and regulations that are applicable to us. The description of these laws and regulations, as well as descriptions of laws and regulations contained elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations. 

The bank regulatory framework to which we are subject is intended primarily for the protection of bank depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of shareholders or other security holders. 

General 

The Company is a bank holding company which has made an election to be a financial holding company. It is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve") and the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions, Division of Banks (the "WDFI"). The Company is required to register and file reports with, and otherwise comply with, the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve and the WDFI. 

The Bank is a Washington state-chartered commercial bank. The Bank is subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the WDFI and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"). 

On February 28, 2016, the Bank converted from a Washington state-chartered savings bank to a Washington state-chartered commercial bank. The conversion is not expected to have any significant impact on the Bank&#8217;s powers or authorities. As a result of the conversion, the Company, which previously was a savings and loan holding company, became a bank holding company. The conversion did not result in any change in the primary federal and state regulators of either the Bank or the Company. 

New statutes, regulations and guidance are considered regularly that could contain wide-ranging potential changes to the competitive landscape for financial institutions operating and doing business in the United States. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed statute, regulation or other guidance will be adopted or promulgated, or the extent to which our business may be affected. Any change in policies, whether by the Federal Reserve, the WDFI, the FDIC, the Washington legislature or the United States Congress, could have a material adverse impact on us and our operations and shareholders. In addition, the Federal Reserve, the WDFI and the FDIC have significant discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including, among other things, policies with respect to the Bank's capital levels, the classification of assets and establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. 

Our operations and earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. In addition to its role as the regulator of bank holding companies, the Federal Reserve has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of financial institutions through its power to implement national monetary and fiscal policy including, among other things, actions taken in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits in various ways, including through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which banks are subject. In recent years, in response to the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has created several innovative programs to stabilize certain financial institutions, to help ensure the availability of credit and to purchase financial assets through programs such as quantitative easing. Quantitative easing has had a significant impact on the market for mortgage-backed securities ("MBS") and by some accounts has stimulated the national economy. We believe these policies have had a beneficial effect on the Company and the mortgage banking industry as a whole. In late 2014, the Federal Reserve discontinued its quantitative easing program of purchasing financial assets and in December 2015, the Federal Reserve increased short-term interest rates and further increases may occur in 2016. We cannot predict the effects of these actions. In addition, we cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal Reserve. 

Regulation of the Company 

General 

The Company is a bank holding company and is subject to Federal Reserve regulations, examinations, supervision and reporting requirements relating to bank holding companies. Among other things, the Federal Reserve is authorized to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a subsidiary bank. Since the Bank is chartered under Washington law, the WDFI has authority to regulate the Company generally relating to its conduct affecting the Bank. 

Capital / Source of Strength 

During 2015, the Company was a savings and loan holding company. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, beginning in 2015, savings and loan holding companies became subject to capital requirements. As a bank holding company, the Company will continue to be subject to capital requirements. See &#8220;Regulation and Supervision of HomeStreet Bank - Capital and Prompt Corrective Action Requirements - Capital Requirements .&#8221; 

Regulations and historical practice of the Federal Reserve have required bank holding companies to serve as a &#8220;source of strength&#8221; for their subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this requirement and extends it to all companies that control an insured depository institution. Accordingly, the Company is required to act as a source of strength for the Bank. 

Restrictions Applicable to Bank Holding Companies 

Federal law prohibits a bank holding company, including the Company, directly or indirectly (or through one or more subsidiaries), from acquiring: 

&#8226; 

control of another depository institution (or a holding company parent) without prior approval of the Federal Reserve (as &#8220;control&#8221; is defined under the Bank Holding Company Act); 

&#8226; 

another depository institution (or a holding company thereof), through merger, consolidation or purchase of all or substantially all of the assets of such institution (or holding company) without prior approval from the Federal Reserve or FDIC; 

&#8226; 

more than 5.0% of the voting shares of a non-subsidiary depository institution or a holding company subject to certain exceptions; or 

&#8226; 

control of any depository institution not insured by the FDIC (except through a merger with and into the holding company's bank subsidiary that is approved by the FDIC). 

In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire depository institutions or holding companies, the Federal Reserve must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. 

Acquisition of Control 

Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the Federal Reserve if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company. An acquisition of control can occur upon the acquisition of 10.0% or more of the voting stock of a bank holding company or as otherwise defined by the Federal Reserve. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, the Federal Reserve has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act (the 60-day period may be extended), taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. Control can also exist if an individual or company has, or exercises, directly or indirectly or by acting in concert with others, a controlling influence over the Bank. Washington law also imposes certain limitations on the ability of persons and entities to acquire control of banking institutions and their parent companies. 

Dividend Policy 

Under Washington law, the Company is generally permitted to make a distribution, including payments of dividends, only if, after giving effect to the distribution, in the judgment of the board of directors, (1) the Company would be able to pay its debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business and (2) the Company's total assets would at least equal the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed if the Company were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. 

The Company's ability to pay dividends to shareholders is significantly dependent on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company. Capital rules implemented beginning in January 2015 impose additional requirements on the ability of the Company and the Bank to pay dividends. See &#8220;Regulation and Supervision of HomeStreet Bank - Capital and Prompt Corrective Action Requirements - Capital Requirements .&#8221; 

Compensation Policies 

Compensation policies and practices at the Company and the Bank are subject to regulation by their respective banking regulators and the SEC. 

Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies . Effective on June 25, 2010, federal banking regulators adopted Sound Incentive Compensation Policies Final Guidance (the &#8220;Final Guidance&#8221;) designed to help ensure that incentive compensation policies at banking organizations do not encourage imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. The Final Guidance applies to senior executives and others who are responsible for oversight of HomeStreet's company-wide activities and material business lines, as well as other employees who, either individually or as a part of a group, have the ability to expose the Bank to material amounts of risk. 

Dodd-Frank Act . In addition to the Final Guidance, the Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions relating to compensation applying to public companies such as the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 14A(a) to the Exchange Act that requires companies to include a separate non-binding resolution subject to shareholder vote in their proxy materials approving the executive compensation disclosed in the materials. In addition, a new Section 14A(b) to the Exchange Act requires any proxy or consent solicitation materials for a meeting seeking shareholder approval of an acquisition, merger, consolidation or disposition of all or substantially all of the company's assets to include a separate non-binding shareholder resolution approving certain &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; payments made in connection with the transaction. A new Section 10D to the Exchange Act requires the SEC to direct the national securities exchanges to require companies to implement a policy to &#8220;claw back&#8221; certain executive payments that were made based on improper financial statements. 

In addition, Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires certain regulators (including the FDIC, SEC and Federal Reserve) to adopt requirements or guidelines prohibiting excessive compensation or compensation that could lead to material loss as well as rules relating to disclosure of compensation. On April 14, 2011, these regulators published a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of Dodd-Frank for depository institutions, their holding companies and various other financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets. Section 956 prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements which encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. The proposed rule would (1) prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that would encourage inappropriate risks by providing excess compensation, (2) prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that would expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing compensation that could lead to a material financial loss, (3) require policies and procedures for incentive-based compensation arrangements that are commensurate with the size and complexity of the institutions and (4) require annual reports on incentive compensation structures to the institution's appropriate federal regulator. 

FDIC Regulations . We are further restricted in our ability to make certain &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; and &#8220;indemnification&#8221; payments under Part 359 of the FDIC regulations, and the FDIC also regulates payments to executives under Part 364 of its regulations relating to excessive executive compensation. 

Emerging Growth Company 

We are an &#8220;Emerging Growth Company,&#8221; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the &#8220;JOBS Act&#8221;), and are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not Emerging Growth Companies. These include, but are not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from certain requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, including the requirement to hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We currently take advantage of some or all of these reporting exemptions and intend to continue to do so until we no longer qualify as an Emerging Growth Company. 

We will remain an Emerging Growth Company for up to five years from the end of the year of our initial public offering, or until (1) we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1 billion, (2) we qualify as a large accelerated filer, or (3) we issue more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt in a three-year period. 

Regulation and Supervision of HomeStreet Bank 

General 

As a commercial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Washington, HomeStreet Bank is subject to applicable provisions of Washington law and regulations of the WDFI. As a state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, the Bank's primary federal regulator is the FDIC. It is subject to regulation and examination by the WDFI and the FDIC, as well as enforcement actions initiated by the WDFI and the FDIC, and its deposits are insured by the FDIC. 

Washington Banking Regulation 

As a Washington bank, the Bank's operations and activities are substantially regulated by Washington law and regulations, which govern, among other things, the Bank's ability to take deposits and pay interest, make loans on or invest in residential and other real estate, make consumer and commercial loans, invest in securities, offer various banking services to its customers and establish branch offices. Under state law, commercial banks in Washington also generally have, subject to certain limitations or approvals, all of the powers that Washington chartered savings banks have under Washington law and that federal savings banks and national banks have under federal laws and regulations. 

Washington law also governs numerous corporate activities relating to the Bank, including the Bank's ability to pay dividends, to engage in merger activities and to amend its articles of incorporation, as well as limitations on change of control of the Bank. Under Washington law, the board of directors of the Bank generally may not declare a cash dividend on its capital stock if payment of such dividend would cause its net worth to be reduced below the net worth requirements, if any, imposed by the WDFI and dividends may not be paid in an amount greater than its retained earnings without the approval of the WDFI. These restrictions are in addition to restrictions imposed by federal law. Mergers involving the Bank and sales or acquisitions of its branches are generally subject to the approval of the WDFI. No person or entity may acquire control of the Bank until 30 days after filing an application with the WDFI, which has the authority to disapprove the application. Washington law defines &#8220;control&#8221; of an entity to mean directly or indirectly, alone or in concert with others, to own, control or hold the power to vote 25.0% or more of the outstanding stock or voting power of the entity. Any amendment to the Bank's articles of incorporation requires the approval of the WDFI. 

The Bank is subject to periodic examination by and reporting requirements of the WDFI, as well as enforcement actions initiated by the WDFI. The WDFI's enforcement powers include the issuance of orders compelling or restricting conduct by the Bank and the authority to bring actions to remove the Bank's directors, officers and employees. The WDFI has authority to place the Bank under supervisory direction or to take possession of the Bank and to appoint the FDIC as receiver. 

Insurance of Deposit Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC 

The FDIC is the Bank's principal federal bank regulator. As such, the FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by the Bank. The FDIC may prohibit the Bank from engaging in any activity determined by law, regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the institution, and may take a variety of enforcement actions in the event the Bank violates a law, regulation or order or engages in an unsafe or unsound practice or under certain other circumstances. The FDIC also has the authority to appoint itself as receiver of the Bank or to terminate the Bank's deposit insurance if it were to determine that the Bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) administered by the FDIC, which insures customer deposit accounts. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the amount of federal deposit insurance coverage was permanently increased from $100,000 to $250,000, per depositor, for each account ownership category at each depository institution. This change made permanent the coverage increases that had been in effect since October 2008. 

In order to maintain the DIF, member institutions, such as the Bank, are assessed insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to make numerous changes to the DIF and the manner in which assessments are calculated. The minimum ratio of assets in the DIF to the total of estimated insured deposits was increased from 1.15% to 1.35%, and the FDIC is given until September 30, 2020 to meet the reserve ratio. In December 2010, the FDIC adopted a final rule setting the reserve ratio of the DIF at 2.0%. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments are now based on an insured institution's average consolidated assets less tangible equity capital. 

For the purpose of determining an institution's assessment rate, each institution is provided an assessment risk assignment, which is generally based on the risk that the institution presents to the DIF. Insured institutions with assets of less than $10 billion are placed in one of four risk categories. These risk categories are generally determined based on an institution's 

capital levels and its supervisory evaluation. These institutions generally have an assessment rate that can range from 2.5 to 45 basis points. However, the FDIC does have flexibility to adopt assessment rates without additional rule-making provided that the total base assessment rate increase or decrease does not exceed 2 basis points. In the future, if the reserve ratio reaches certain levels, these assessment rates will generally be lowered. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank's assessment rate was 6 basis points on average assets less average tangible equity capital. 

In addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay a pro rata portion of the interest due on obligations issued by the Financing Corporation to fund the closing and disposal of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust Corporation. The Financing Corporation rate is adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in assessment bases of the DIF. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2019. The annual rate for the first quarter of 2016 is 0.58 basis points. 

Capital and Prompt Corrective Action Requirements 

Capital Requirements 

In July 2013, federal banking regulators (including the FDIC and the FRB) adopted new capital rules (the &#8220;Rules&#8221;). The Rules apply to both depository institutions (such as the Bank) and their holding companies (such as the Company). The Rules reflect, in part, certain standards initially adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010 (which standards are commonly referred to as &#8220;Basel III&#8221;) as well as requirements contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Rules apply to both the Company and the Bank beginning in 2015. 

The Rules recognize three components, or tiers, of capital: common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital generally consists of retained earnings and common stock instruments (subject to certain adjustments), as well as accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) except to the extent that the Company and the Bank exercise a one-time irrevocable option to exclude certain components of AOCI. Both the Company and the Bank made this election in 2015. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus subject to certain adjustments and limitations. Tier 2 capital generally includes certain capital instruments (such as subordinated debt) and portions of the amounts of the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain requirements and deductions. The term &#8220;Tier 1 capital&#8221; means common equity Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital, and the term &#8220;total capital&#8221; means Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital. 

The Rules generally measure an institution&#8217;s capital using four capital measures or ratios. The common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the institution&#8217;s common equity Tier 1 capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The Tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the institution&#8217;s Tier 1 capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The total capital ratio is the ratio of the institution&#8217;s total capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is the ratio of the institution&#8217;s Tier 1 capital to its average total consolidated assets. To determine risk-weighted assets, assets of an institution are generally placed into a risk category and given a percentage weight based on the relative risk of that category. The percentage weights range from 0% to 1,250%. An asset&#8217;s risk-weighted value will generally be its percentage weight multiplied by the asset&#8217;s value as determined under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, certain off-balance-sheet items are converted to balance-sheet credit equivalent amounts, and each amount is then assigned to one of the risk categories. An institution&#8217;s federal regulator may require the institution to hold more capital than would otherwise be required under the Rules if the regulator determines that the institution&#8217;s capital requirements under the Rules are not commensurate with the institution&#8217;s credit, market, operational or other risks. 

Both the Company and the Bank are required to have a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4.5%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 6.0% and a total risk-based ratio of 8.0%. In addition to the preceding requirements, institutions, including both the Company and the Bank, are required to establish a &#8220;conservation buffer,&#8221; consisting of common equity Tier 1 capital, which is at least 2.5% above each of the preceding common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the Tier 1 risk-based ratio and the total risk-based ratio. An institution that does not meet the conservation buffer will be subject to restrictions on certain activities including payment of dividends, stock repurchases and discretionary bonuses to executive officers. 

The Rules set forth the manner in which certain capital elements are determined, including but not limited to, requiring certain deductions related to mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets. When the federal banking regulators initially proposed new capital rules in 2012, the rules would have phased out trust preferred securities as a component of Tier 1 capital. As finally adopted, however, the Rules permit holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009 (which includes the Company) to continue to include trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital, generally up to 25% of other Tier 1 capital. 

The Rules made changes in the methods of calculating certain risk-based assets, which in turn affects the calculation of risk- based ratios. Higher or more sensitive risk weights are assigned to various categories of assets, among which are commercial real estate, credit facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property, certain exposures or credits that are 90 days past due or are nonaccrual, foreign exposures, certain corporate exposures, securitization exposures, equity exposures and in certain cases mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets. 

Both the Company and the Bank were generally required to begin compliance with the Rules on January 1, 2015. The conservation buffer will be phased in beginning in 2016 and will take full effect on January 1, 2019. Certain calculations under the Rules will also have phase-in periods. We believe that the current capital levels of the Company and the Bank are in compliance with the standards under the Rules including the conservation buffer. 

Prompt Corrective Action Regulations 

Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act establishes a framework of supervisory actions for insured depository institutions that are not adequately capitalized, also known as &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regulations. All of the federal banking agencies have promulgated substantially similar regulations to implement a system of prompt corrective action. These regulations apply to the Bank but not the Company. As modified by the Rules, the framework establishes five capital categories; under the Rules, a bank is: 

&#8226; 

&#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 6.5% or more, and a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or more, and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or more, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 4.5% or more, and a leverage capital ratio of 4.0% or more; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio less than 6.0%, a common equity risk-based ratio less than 4.5% or a leverage capital ratio less than 4.0%; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio less than 4.0%, a common equity risk-based ratio less than 3.0% or a leverage capital ratio less than 3.0%; and 

&#8226; 

&#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. 

A bank that, based upon its capital levels, is classified as &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment. 

At each successive lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to increasingly severe supervisory actions. These actions include, but are not limited to, restrictions on asset growth, interest rates paid on deposits, branching, allowable transactions with affiliates, ability to pay bonuses and raises to senior executives and pursuing new lines of business. Additionally, all &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; banks are required to implement capital restoration plans to restore capital to at least the &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; level, and the FDIC is generally required to close &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; banks within a 90-day period. 

Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates 

Transactions between the Bank and any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of the Bank is any company or entity which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Bank but which is not a subsidiary of the Bank. The Company and its non-bank subsidiaries are affiliates of the Bank. Generally, Section 23A limits the extent to which the Bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10.0% of the Bank's capital stock and surplus, and imposes an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates in an amount equal to 20.0% of such capital stock and surplus. Section 23B applies to &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; as well as certain other transactions and requires that all transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans to an affiliate, the purchase of or investment in the securities issued by an affiliate, the purchase of assets from an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral security for a loan or extension of credit to any person or company, the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate, or certain transactions with an affiliate that involves the borrowing or lending of securities and certain derivative transactions with an affiliate. 

In addition, Sections 22(g) and (h) of the Federal Reserve Act place restrictions on loans, derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders of the Bank and its affiliates. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking regulatory agencies have prescribed, by regulation, a set of guidelines for all insured depository institutions prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings standards, compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder. 

Each insured depository institution must implement a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the institution's size and complexity and the nature and scope of its activities. The information security program also must be designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any unanticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer and ensure the proper disposal of customer and consumer information. Each insured depository institution must also develop and implement a risk-based response program to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems. If the FDIC determines that the Bank fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, it may require the Bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. The Bank maintains a program to meet the information security requirements. 

Real Estate Lending Standards 

FDIC regulations require the Bank to adopt and maintain written policies that establish appropriate limits and standards for real estate loans. These standards, which must be consistent with safe and sound banking practices, must establish loan portfolio diversification standards, prudent underwriting standards (including loan-to-value ratio limits) that are clear and measurable, loan administration procedures and documentation, approval and reporting requirements. The Bank is obligated to monitor conditions in its real estate markets to ensure that its standards continue to be appropriate for current market conditions. The Bank's board of directors is required to review and approve the Bank's standards at least annually. 

The FDIC has published guidelines for compliance with these regulations, including supervisory limitations on loan-to-value ratios for different categories of real estate loans. Under the guidelines, the aggregate amount of all loans in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value ratios should not exceed 100.0% of total capital, and the total of all loans for commercial, agricultural, multifamily or other non-one-to-four family residential properties in excess of such ratios should not exceed 30.0% of total capital. Loans in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value ratio limitations must be identified in the Bank's records and reported at least quarterly to the Bank's board of directors. 

The FDIC and the federal banking agencies have also issued guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The particular focus is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be sensitive to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is not to limit a bank's commercial real estate lending but to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. 

Risk Retention 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that, subject to certain exemptions, securitizers of mortgage and other asset-backed securities retain not less than five percent of the credit risk of the mortgages or other assets and that the securitizer not hedge or otherwise transfer the risk it is required to retain. In December 2014, the federal banking regulators, together with the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, published a final rule implementing this requirement. Generally, the final rule provides various ways in which the retention of risk requirement can be satisfied and also describes exemptions from the retention requirements for various types of assets, including mortgages. Compliance with the final rule with respect to residential mortgage securitizations was required beginning in December 2015 and will be required beginning in December 2016 for all other securitizations. 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, the FDIC, the FRB and various other federal agencies issued final rules to implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act commonly known as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Subject to certain exceptions, the final rules generally prohibit banks and affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on those instruments, for their own account. The final rules also impose restrictions on banks and their affiliates from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, sponsoring or having certain other relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. 

Activities and Investments of Insured State-Chartered Financial Institutions 

Federal law generally prohibits FDIC-insured state banks from engaging as a principal in activities, and from making equity investments, other than those that are permissible for national banks. An insured state bank is not prohibited from, among other things, (1) acquiring or retaining a majority interest in certain subsidiaries, (2) investing as a limited partner in a partnership the sole purpose of which is direct or indirect investment in the acquisition, rehabilitation or new construction of a qualified housing project, provided that such limited partnership investments may not exceed 2.0% of the bank's total assets, (3) acquiring up to 10.0% of the voting stock of a company that solely provides or reinsures directors', trustees' and officers' liability insurance coverage or bankers' blanket bond group insurance coverage for insured depository institutions and (4) acquiring or retaining the voting shares of a depository institution if certain requirements are met. 

Washington State has enacted a law regarding financial institution parity. The law generally provides that Washington-chartered commercial banks may exercise any of the powers of Washington-chartered savings banks, national banks or federally-chartered savings banks, subject to the approval of the Director of the WDFI in certain situations. 

Environmental Issues Associated With Real Estate Lending 

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or the CERCLA, is a federal statute that generally imposes strict liability on all prior and present &#8220;owners and operators&#8221; of sites containing hazardous waste. However, Congress has acted to protect secured creditors by providing that the term &#8220;owner and operator&#8221; excludes a person whose ownership is limited to protecting its security interest in the site. Since the enactment of the CERCLA, this &#8220;secured creditor&#8221; exemption has been the subject of judicial interpretations which have left open the possibility that lenders could be liable for cleanup costs on contaminated property that they hold as collateral for a loan. To the extent that legal uncertainty exists in this area, all creditors, including the Bank, that have made loans secured by properties with potential hazardous waste contamination (such as petroleum contamination) could be subject to liability for cleanup costs, which costs often substantially exceed the value of the collateral property. 

Reserve Requirements 

The Bank is subject to Federal Reserve regulations pursuant to which depositary institutions may be required to maintain non-interest-earning reserves against their deposit accounts and certain other liabilities. Currently, reserves must be maintained against transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally required in 2015 that reserves be maintained as follows: 

&#8226; 

Net transaction accounts up to $14.5 million were exempt from reserve requirements. 

&#8226; 

A reserve of 3.0% of the aggregate is required for transaction accounts over $14.5 million up to $103.6 million. 

&#8226; 

A reserve of 10% is required for any transaction accounts over $103.6 million. 

In 2016, the regulations generally require that reserves be maintained as follows: 

&#8226; 

Net transaction accounts up to $15.2 million were exempt from reserve requirements. 

&#8226; 

A reserve of 3.0% of the aggregate is required for transaction accounts over $15.2 million up to $110.2 million. 

&#8226; 

A reserve of 10% is required for any transaction accounts over $110.2 million. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Federal Home Loan Bank system consists of eleven regional Federal Home Loan Banks. Among other benefits, each of these serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region. Each of the Federal Home Loan Banks makes available loans or advances to its members in compliance with the policies and procedures established by its board of directors. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines and the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco ("FHLB"). As a member, the Bank is required to own stock in the FHLB and currently owns $44.3 million &#32;of stock in the FHLB. 

Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 

Banks are subject to the provisions of the CRA of 1977, which requires the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency to assess a bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the assessment areas serviced by the bank, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency's assessment of the bank's record is made available to the public. Further, these assessments are considered by regulators when evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open or relocate a branch or facility. The Bank currently has a rating of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; under the CRA. 

Dividends 

Dividends from the Bank constitute an important source of funds for dividends that may be paid by the Company to shareholders. The amount of dividends payable by the Bank to the Company depends upon the Bank's earnings and capital position and is limited by federal and state laws. Under Washington law, the Bank may not declare or pay a cash dividend on its capital stock if this would cause its net worth to be reduced below the net worth requirements, if any, imposed by the WDFI. In addition, dividends on the Bank's capital stock may not be paid in an amount greater than its retained earnings without the approval of the WDFI. 

The amount of dividends actually paid during any one period will be strongly affected by the Bank's policy of maintaining a strong capital position. Federal law prohibits an insured depository institution from paying a cash dividend if this would cause the institution to be &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; as defined in the prompt corrective action regulations. Moreover, the federal bank regulatory agencies have the general authority to limit the dividends paid by insured banks if such payments are deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. New capital rules that went into effect in 2015 impose additional requirements on the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends. See &#8220;- Capital and Prompt Corrective Action Requirements - Capital Requirements .&#8221; 

Liquidity 

The Bank is required to maintain a sufficient amount of liquid assets to ensure its safe and sound operation. See &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis - &#32;Liquidity Risk and Capital Resources.&#8221; 

Compensation 

The Bank is subject to regulation of its compensation practices. See &#8220;Regulation and Supervision - Regulation of the Company &#32;- Compensation Policies .&#8221; 

Bank Secrecy Act and USA Patriot Act 

The Company and the Bank are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, which gives the federal government powers to address money laundering and terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers and mandatory transaction reporting obligations. By way of example, the Bank Secrecy Act imposes an affirmative obligation on the Bank to report currency transactions that exceed certain thresholds and to report other transactions determined to be suspicious. 

Like all United States companies and individuals, the Company and the Bank are prohibited from transacting business with certain individuals and entities named on the Office of Foreign Asset Control's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Failure to comply may result in fines and other penalties. The Office of Foreign Asset Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) has issued guidance directed at financial institutions in which it asserted that it may, in its discretion, examine institutions determined to be high-risk or to be lacking in their efforts to comply with these prohibitions. 

The Bank maintains a program to meet the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, USA PATRIOT Act and OFAC. 

Identity Theft 

Section 315 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act ("FACT Act") requires each financial institution or creditor to develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft &#8220;red flags&#8221; in connection with the opening of certain accounts or certain existing accounts. 

The Bank maintains a program to meet the requirements of Section 315 of the FACT Act. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

The Bank and its affiliates are subject to a broad array of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations that govern almost every aspect of its business relationships with consumers. While this list is not exhaustive, these include the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Secure and Fair Enforcement in Mortgage Licensing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members' Civil Relief Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, the Consumer Leasing Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, laws governing flood insurance, laws governing consumer protections in connection with the sale of insurance, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices, foreclosure laws and various regulations that implement some or all of the foregoing. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to, enforcement actions, injunctions, fines, civil liability, criminal penalties, punitive damages and the loss of certain contractual rights. The Bank has a compliance governance structure in place to help ensure its compliance with these requirements. 

The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as a new independent bureau that is responsible for regulating consumer financial products and services under federal consumer financial laws. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority with respect to these laws and exclusive examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to banks with assets of more than $10 billion. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a variety of provisions intended to reform consumer mortgage practices. The provisions include (1) a requirement that lenders make a determination that at the time a residential mortgage loan is consummated the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan and related costs, (2) a ban on loan originator compensation based on the interest rate or other terms of the loan (other than the amount of the principal), (3) a ban on prepayment penalties for certain types of loans, (4) bans on arbitration provisions in mortgage loans and (5) requirements for enhanced disclosures in connection with the making of a loan. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes a variety of requirements on entities that service mortgage loans. 

The Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions further regulating payment card transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve to adopt regulations limiting any interchange fee for a debit transaction to an amount which is &#8220;reasonable and proportional&#8221; to the costs incurred by the issuer. The Federal Reserve has adopted final regulations limiting the amount of debit interchange fees that large bank issuers may charge or receive on their debit card transactions. There is an exemption from the rules for issuers with assets of less than $10 billion and the Federal Reserve has stated that it will monitor and report to Congress on the effectiveness of the exemption. 

Future Legislation or Regulation 

In light of recent conditions in the United States economy and the financial services industry, the Obama administration, Congress, the regulators and various states continue to focus attention on the financial services industry. Additional proposals that affect the industry have been and will likely continue to be introduced. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted or adopted or, if they are, the effect they would have on our business, our operations or our financial condition. 

