 Item 1. Business. 

OVERVIEW 

Our Company 

We are a leading U.S. Spanish-language media company serving the fast growing and highly attractive U.S. Hispanic and Latin American markets with five Spanish-language cable television networks distributed in the U.S., two Spanish-language cable television networks distributed in Latin America, and the #1-rated broadcast television network in Puerto Rico. 

Headquartered in Miami, Florida, we own and operate the following leading Spanish-language networks and content production platform, including leading movie and telenovela channels, two of the most popular Hispanic entertainment genres, and the leading cable television networks targeting the second, third and fourth largest U.S. Hispanic groups: 

&#160; Cinelatino : the leading Spanish-language cable movie network with over 16 million subscribers across the U.S., Latin America and Canada, including 4.4 million subscribers in the U.S. and 11.9 million subscribers in Latin America. Cinelatino is programmed with a lineup featuring the best contemporary films and original television series from Mexico, Latin America, the U.S. and Spain. Driven by the strength of its programming and distribution, Cinelatino is the #1-rated Spanish-language cable movie network in the U.S. and the #2-rated Spanish-language cable television network in the U.S. overall. 

&#160; WAPA : the leading broadcast television network and television content producer in Puerto Rico. WAPA has been the #1-rated broadcast television network in Puerto Rico for the last seven years. WAPA is Puerto Rico's news leader and the largest local producer of entertainment programming, producing over 75 hours each week of programming that is aired on WAPA and WAPA America. Through WAPA's multicast signal, we distribute WAPA2 Deportes, a leading sports television network in Puerto Rico, featuring Major League Baseball (MLB) , National Basketball Association (NBA) and professional sporting events from Puerto Rico. Additionally, we operate WAPA.TV, the leading broadband news and entertainment website in Puerto Rico featuring news and content produced by WAPA. &#160; WAPA America : a cable television network serving primarily Puerto Ricans and other Caribbean Hispanics in the United States, collectively the second largest segment of the U.S. Hispanic population. WAPA America's programming features news and entertainment offerings produced by WAPA. WAPA America is distributed in the U.S. to over 5.0 million subscribers. &#160; Pasiones : a cable television network dedicated to showcasing the best telenovelas and serialized dramas, licensed from the most important producers. Pasiones is distributed in the U.S. to 4.4 million subscribers and in Latin America to 10.2 million subscribers. &#160; Centroamerica TV: a cable television network targeting Central Americans, the third largest U.S. Hispanic group and the fastest growing segment of the U.S. Hispanic population. Centroamerica TV features the most popular news and entertainment from Central America, as well as soccer programming from the top professional soccer leagues in the region. Centroamerica TV is distributed in the U.S. to 4.0 million subscribers. &#160; Television Dominicana: a cable television network targeting Dominicans living in the U.S., the fourth largest U.S. Hispanic group. Television Dominicana features the most popular news and entertainment from the Dominican Republic, as well as the professional winter baseball league from the Dominican Republic. Television Dominicana is distributed in the U.S. to 3.0 million subscribers. 

Hemisphere was incorporated in Delaware on January 16, 2013. On April 4, 2013, we completed a series of mergers pursuant to which WAPA Holdings, Cinelatino and Azteca, each became our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, which we refer to as the Transaction. Azteca, a special purpose acquisition vehicle, delivered the proceeds of a trust account raised in its 2011 initial public offering to us in the Transaction. Since the consummation of the Transaction, Azteca has had no operations and was subsequently dissolved on December 31, 2013. Shares of our Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Class A common stock") are publicly traded under the symbol "HMTV" on the Nasdaq Global Market ("NASDAQ"). Our warrants, exercisable for shares of Class A common stock 

("Warrants"), are publicly traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol "HMTVW." 

On April 1, 2014, we closed a transaction in which we acquired the assets of the following three Spanish-language cable television networks: Pasiones, Centroamerica TV and Television Dominicana, which we refer to as the Acquired Cable Networks. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to provide unique programming focused on underserved but significant segments of the U.S. Hispanic population, allowing us to reach a deeper and broader U.S. Hispanic demographic than our competitors. Our objective is to maintain and improve our position as a leading U.S. Spanish-language media company by, among other things, (i) investing in content for our Networks to build viewership, (ii) growing retransmission fees in Puerto Rico and subscriber revenues in both the U.S. and Latin America, and (iii) driving advertising sales, including advertising on Cinelatino in the U.S. which was converted to ad-supported in July 2015. Additionally, we continue to look for attractive opportunities to acquire assets that we consider to be undervalued or fairly valued with attractive financial or strategic characteristics. We intend to take a long-term view and primarily seek opportunities which will (i) expand our leadership position in the fast growing and highly desirable U.S. Hispanic pay-TV market and (ii) expand our portfolio within broadcast networks, and/or cable networks in Latin American. We may also seek a variety of acquisition opportunities, including businesses where we believe an opportunity for value realization is already present, where we can realize synergies with our existing businesses, or that are in need of operational turnaround, which we believe would benefit from our experienced and cohesive management team with the proven ability to develop and grow acquired assets. Additionally, we evaluate various digital strategies, from time to time. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we and our subsidiaries employed 300 full-time persons. In the normal course of business, we use contract personnel to supplement our employee base to meet business needs. We or our subsidiaries may hire additional personnel in connection with the closing of future acquisitions. We believe that employee relations are generally satisfactory. Approximately 152 of our employees based in Puerto Rico are full-time unionized employees covered by two collective bargaining agreements (each, a "CBA" and collectively, the "CBAs"), one of which was scheduled to expire on July 23, 2015 and the other which expires on June 27, 2016. Pursuant to its terms, the CBA which was scheduled to expire on July 23, 2015 automatically renewed for a period of eighteen (18) months upon such expiration date and remains in effect through January 23, 2017 while the Company and the employees' union, Union de Periodistas Artes Graficas y Ramas Anexas (UPAGRA), negotiate its renewal. For more information, see Note 11, "Retirement Plans" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Revenue Sources 

We operate our business in one operating segment. Our two primary sources of revenue are advertising revenues and retransmission/subscriber fees. All of our networks generate both advertising revenues and retransmission/subscriber fees. Cinelatino had been commercial-free, and generated 100% of its revenue from subscriber fees. However, to further monetize Cinelatino's strong ratings and attractive audience, we introduced advertising on Cinelatino's U.S. feed in July 2015. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time. Our advertising revenue tends to reflect seasonal patterns of our advertisers' demand, which is generally greatest during the fourth quarter of each year, driven by the holiday buying season. In addition, Puerto Rico's political election cycle occurs every four years and WAPA benefits from increased advertising sales in an election year. For example, in 2012, WAPA experienced higher advertising sales as a result of political advertising spending during the 2012 governmental elections. The next election in Puerto Rico will be in 2016. 

Retransmission and subscriber fees are charged to Distributors of our television networks, including cable, satellite and telecommunication service providers. Our television networks are distributed pursuant to multi-year agreements that generally provide for monthly subscriber fees with annual rate increases and have terms of varying length. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenue earned under affiliation agreements with DISH Network, LLC accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenues. We recognize retransmission and subscriber fees when they are accrued pursuant to the agreements we have entered into with respect to such revenue. We set forth our net revenue, total assets and operating income in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 

We generate over 90% of our net revenues from the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we generated $120.6 million, $103.7 million and $81.7 million, respectively, from the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we generated $9.2 million, $8.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively, from outside the United States. 

OUR NETWORKS 

WAPA 

Headquartered in San Juan, Puerto Rico, WAPA is a full-power independent broadcast television network. WAPA was founded in 1954 as the second broadcast television network in the Caribbean and the third in Latin America. WAPA occupies a prime channel position (channel 4), and together with its full-power repeater stations, WTIN in Ponce and WNJX in Mayag&#252;ez, reaches the entire island with the strongest television signal in Puerto Rico. WAPA reaches more television households than any of its competitors in Puerto Rico. WAPA is also distributed by all cable, satellite and telecommunication service providers in Puerto Rico. WAPA has been the #1-rated broadcast television network in Puerto Rico for seven consecutive years, with an average household primetime rating of 16.8 and audience share of 30.3% in the year ended December 31, 2015. 

WAPA owns a 66,500 square foot building housing WAPA Holdings' state-of-the-art production facilities, television studios, and administrative offices. All of WAPA's news and most of its local programs are produced at WAPA's production facility, which contains four television studios, including the largest television studio in the Caribbean, fully equipped control rooms, digital video, audio, editing, post editing, and graphic production suites, and a scenery shop which produces all scenery and props for the local productions. WAPA also boasts one of the most technologically advanced news departments in Puerto Rico. 

WAPA is Puerto Rico's news leader and the largest local producer of entertainment programming, producing over 75 hours in the aggregate each week. In addition to having the top-rated morning, mid-day, evening and late night newscast, WAPA's top-rated local shows include P&#233;gate al Mediod&#237;a (the #1-rated midday program), and Lo Se Todo (the #1-rated daily show). WAPA also licenses and televises blockbuster Hollywood movies and top-rated U.S. television series dubbed into Spanish. This diverse and unique mix of programming has made WAPA the market leader in Puerto Rico. 

In 2009, WAPA launched WAPA2 Deportes in Puerto Rico through its over-the-air signal and carriage by all cable, satellite and telecommunications distributors in Puerto Rico. WAPA2 Deportes broadcasts various local and U.S. sports programming, including MLB , with exclusive television rights to the World Series and the All-Star Game, NBA and Puerto Rico's professional men's basketball league, Baloncesto Superior Nacional . In a short period of time, WAPA2 Deportes has become the leading local sports network in Puerto Rico. 

In 2008, WAPA launched WAPA.TV, the #1-rated television network website in Puerto Rico and the #5 ranked Puerto Rico-originated web site. WAPA.TV provides up-to-the-minute news and weather, promotional clips of WAPA's most popular shows, additional video content not seen on WAPA, and a platform for viewers to share comments and interact, driving further audience 

engagement. As of December 31, 2015, WAPA.TV's mobile web version, WAPA Movil, had 82.7 million total page views, 40.2 million total visits and over 1.3 million monthly unique visitors. 

WAPA America 

WAPA America, launched in 2004, is a Spanish-language cable television network targeting viewers from Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Venezuela and Colombia (collectively referred to as "Caribbean Hispanics"), residing in the U.S. Caribbean Hispanics are the second largest U.S. Hispanic population segment, representing 18% of the U.S. Hispanic population. Puerto Ricans in particular are an attractive subset of the U.S. Hispanic market with a purchasing power index of 113 as compared to other Hispanics. WAPA America is distributed by all major U.S. cable, satellite and telecommunication operators to over 5.0 million subscribers. WAPA America televises over 75 hours per week of the top-rated news and entertainment programming produced by WAPA. WAPA America supplements its programming with acquired telenovelas and cultural programming, popular sports programming from Puerto Rico and other programming from WAPA's library. 

WAPA America is primarily distributed on Hispanic programming packages, which generally consist of 20 or more channels, such as Cinelatino, Pasiones, Centroamerica TV, Television Dominicana, CNN en Espa&#241;ol, Discovery en Espa&#241;ol, History en Espa&#241;ol, ESPN Deportes and Fox Deportes (together, "Hispanic Programming Packages"). WAPA America is also distributed in more highly penetrated packages in the major markets of Orlando and Tampa. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers in the U.S. are expected to grow, driven by the continued long-term growth in Hispanic television households and by increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. We expect to capitalize on this strong growth. For more information, see "&#151;Industry." 

Cinelatino 

Cinelatino is the leading Spanish-language cable movie network with over 16 million subscribers across the U.S., Latin America and Canada. Cinelatino is programmed with a lineup featuring what it believes to be the best contemporary films and original television series from Mexico, Latin America, the U.S. and Spain. Cinelatino was launched in Mexico in 1993, and introduced into the U.S. in 1995. 

Our programming strategy for Cinelatino is specifically intended to provide the audience with the broadest selection of the most popular and highest-quality films across all of the popular genres, from Mexico and all other Latin American countries which have significant populations in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Colombia and Venezuela. Consistent with its programming strategy, Cinelatino has licensed the rights to many of the highest grossing box office films in Mexico each year from 2009 to 2014. Additionally, in 2014, we acquired a Spanish-language film library of 100 titles. This has provided us with substantial additional content, and will be a source of content for our channel as well as content available for us to license to over-the-top platforms. Cinelatino has an expansive library of over 600 of the best Spanish-language titles from suppliers across the globe. Driven by the strength of its programming and distribution, Cinelatino is the #1-Nielsen rated Spanish-language cable movie network in the U.S. and the #2-Nielsen rated Spanish-language cable television network in the U.S. overall. Beginning in July 2015 Cine Latino began accepting advertising. 

Cinelatino has two feeds of its service, one that is distributed in the U.S., and a second that is distributed throughout Latin America and Canada. Cinelatino is distributed by all major U.S. cable, satellite and telecommunications operators on Hispanic Programming Packages. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers in the U.S. are expected to grow, driven by the continued long-term growth in Hispanic television households and by increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. We expect to capitalize on this strong growth. For more information, see "&#151;Industry." 

Cinelatino is also distributed by many Latin American pay television distributors, generally on basic video packages, and has more than 12 million subscribers in more than 15 countries throughout Latin America. Cinelatino is presently distributed to only 23% of all pay-TV subscribers throughout 

Latin America (excluding Brazil), representing a significant growth opportunity. Additionally, we have licensed movies on a limited basis for over-the-top digital services. 

Pasiones 

Pasiones, launched in August 2008, focuses on one of the most popular program genres among Hispanics, telenovelas. The network sets itself apart by showcasing telenovelas produced in Latin America and Asia (dubbed into Spanish), in contrast to most competitor networks, which focus exclusively on Mexican telenovelas. In owning both Pasiones and Cinelatino, we provide content in two of the most popular genres with Hispanics, telenovelas and movies. 

Pasiones has two feeds of its service, one that is distributed in the U.S. and a second that is distributed throughout Latin America. Pasiones is distributed by all major U.S. cable, satellite and telecommunications operators on Hispanic Programming Packages, and has approximately 4.4 million U.S. subscribers. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers in the U.S. are expected to grow, driven by the continued long-term growth in Hispanic television households and by increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. We expect to capitalize on this strong growth. For more information, see "&#151;Industry." 

Pasiones is also distributed by many Latin American distributors, generally on basic video packages, and has 10.2 million Latin American subscribers. Pasiones is presently distributed to only 20% of total pay-TV subscribers throughout Latin America (excluding Brazil), representing a significant growth opportunity. 

Centroamerica TV 

Centroamerica TV, launched in September 2004, is the leading network targeting the nearly 6 million Central Americans living in the U.S. Central Americans are the third largest U.S. Hispanic population group, and represent the fastest growing segment of the U.S. Hispanic population, having grown 265% from 2000-2015. Centroamerica TV features news and entertainment programming from leading television broadcast networks in El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Panama, as well as exclusive soccer programming from the top professional leagues in the region. 

Centroamerica TV has 4.0 million subscribers in the U.S. and is distributed on Hispanic Programming Packages. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers in the U.S. are expected to grow, driven by the long-term growth in Hispanic television households and by increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. We expect to capitalize on this strong growth. For more information, see "&#151;Industry." 

Television Dominicana 

Television Dominicana, launched in November 2005, is the leading network targeting the 2.3 million Dominicans living in the U.S. Dominicans are the fourth largest U.S. Hispanic population group and have grown by 201% between 2000-2015. Television Dominicana features news and entertainment programming from leading content producers in the Dominican Republic, as well as exclusive rights to the Dominican Republic professional baseball league. 

Television Dominicana currently has 3.0 million subscribers in the U.S. and is distributed on Hispanic Programming Packages. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers are expected to grow, driven by continued long-term growth in Hispanic television households and by increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. We expect to capitalize on this strong growth. For more information, see "&#151;Industry." 

OUR COMPETITION 

We compete for the development and acquisition of programming, distribution of our Networks, selling of commercial time on our Networks, viewership to our networks, and on-air and creative talent. Our Networks compete with other Spanish-language broadcast and cable television networks and digital media companies for the acquisition of programming, viewership, the sale of advertising and creative talent. Our ability to produce and acquire popular content impacts our viewership and the sale of advertising. 

We also compete with both Spanish-language and English-language broadcast and cable television networks for distribution of our Networks and the fees paid by cable, satellite and telecommunication service providers. Our ability to retain and secure distribution agreements is necessary to maintain and grow subscriber fees, and to attain viewership which drives advertising sales. Our contractual agreements with Distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. The launch of new networks and consolidation within the cable and satellite distribution industry may adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain distribution of our Networks. 

Certain technological advances, including the increased deployment of fiber optic cable, are expected to allow cable and telecommunication video service providers to continue to expand both their channel and broadband distribution capacities and to increase transmission speeds. In addition, the ability to deliver content via new methods and devices is expected to increase substantially. The impact of such added capacities is hard to predict, but the development of new channels of content distribution could lead to increased competition for viewers by facilitating the emergence of additional channels and mobile and internet platforms through which viewers could view programming that is similar to that offered by our subsidiaries. 

WAPA competes with broadcast television networks and cable television networks in Puerto Rico for audience viewership, advertising sales, and programming. WAPA's main competitors are broadcast television stations owned by Univision and Telemundo, which rely heavily on their U.S. parents for programming, which consists primarily of telenovelas produced in Mexico, the U.S. and Latin America. There are a few other local broadcasters, but they tend not to be competitive due to weak programming and/or poor signal quality. WAPA reaches more television households in Puerto Rico than any of its competitors. In addition, while all major English-language U.S. broadcast networks have local affiliates, they are, for the most part, low power stations with nominal ratings. Only approximately half of the television households in Puerto Rico subscribe to pay-TV and cable channels are generally not competitive, as they tend to be U.S.-based, English-language channels with little relevance to the Puerto Rico Spanish-speaking market. WAPA has effectively customized its programming for the viewing preferences of the Puerto Rican market with more local entertainment and news programming than its competitors, as well as blockbuster Hollywood movies and hit U.S. television series (dubbed into Spanish). As a result, WAPA has been the ratings leader for the past seven years. WAPA2 Deportes competes for viewership, advertising sales and programming with other channels offering similar sports programming in Puerto Rico. Competitors include U.S.-based cable networks, such as ESPN, TNT, and TBS, and certain satellite distributors who have acquired sports media rights for their owned channels. WAPA.TV, including its mobile version, WAPA Movil compete with other news, weather and entertainment websites for development and acquisition of content, audience and advertising sales. To an extent, WAPA.TV and WAPA Movil also compete with U.S. search engines and social networks, such as Google, Facebook and Yahoo, for website traffic. 

Many of our competitors may possess greater resources than us, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with many of these competitors. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

Our intellectual property assets principally include copyrights in television programming, websites and other content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, domain names and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. The protection of our Networks' brands and content is of primary importance to our success. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, trade secret and internet/domain name statutes, laws and contractual provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related intellectual property is difficult and costly. We seek to limit unauthorized use of 

our intellectual property through a combination of approaches. However, the steps taken to prevent the infringement of our intellectual property by unauthorized third parties may not work. 

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal, and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. 

INDUSTRY 

U.S. Hispanic Market 

The U.S. Census Department estimated that over 55 million Hispanics resided in the United States in 2014, representing an increase of approximately 20 million people between 2000 and 2014. Hispanics represent the largest minority group in the U.S. at over 17% of the total U.S. population and accounted for half of the total U.S. population growth between 2000 and 2014. This trend is expected to continue as the U.S. Hispanic population is projected to grow to 70 million by 2025, an increase of 27% from 2014. As a result of this growth, the U.S. Hispanic market represents the second largest Hispanic economy in the world after Mexico. In 2015 about 67% of the U.S. Hispanic population reported their origin as Mexican, followed by Puerto Rican, the second largest Hispanic national group, at over 9%. In addition, the Hispanic population on average is significantly younger than the overall population. For example, the median age of U.S. Hispanics is 29, which is 14 years younger than the median age for non-Hispanic whites. 

Puerto Ricans are the second-largest Hispanic national community in the U.S. behind Mexican Americans. There are 5.4 million Puerto Ricans and an additional 5.3 million Hispanics from other Caribbean countries residing in the U.S., and together, Puerto Ricans and other Caribbean Hispanics represent more than 18% of the total U.S. Hispanic population. The Puerto Rican population in the U.S. grew 58% from 2000 to 2015, while the overall Caribbean Hispanic population grew 78% during the same time period, including the Dominican population which grew 201% between 2000-2015. 

Caribbean Hispanics (WAPA America and Television Dominicana target audience) 

Place of Origin &#160; Population 2015 &#160; % of U.S. Hispanics &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Puerto Rico &#160; &#160; 5,368,991 &#160; &#160; 9.2 % Dominican Republic &#160; &#160; 2,300,278 &#160; &#160; 4.0 % Cuba &#160; &#160; 1,704,956 &#160; &#160; 2.9 % Colombia &#160; &#160; 976,129 &#160; &#160; 1.7 % Venezuela &#160; &#160; 288,349 &#160; &#160; 0.5 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total Caribbean Hispanics &#160; &#160; 10,638,703 &#160; &#160; 18.3 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Source: 2015 Geoscape 

Central Americans are the third largest U.S. Hispanic regional population group in the U.S. (behind Mexicans and Caribbean Hispanics), and represent the fastest growing segment of the U.S Hispanic population. There are 5.8 million Central Americans residing in the U.S., an increase of 263% since 2000. Central Americans comprised approximately 10% of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2015, compared to approximately 4% in 2000. 

Central American Hispanics (Centroamerica TV target audience) 

Place of Origin &#160; Population 2015 &#160; % of U.S. Hispanics &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; El Salvador &#160; &#160; 2,507,700 &#160; &#160; 4.3 % Guatemala &#160; &#160; 1,552,782 &#160; &#160; 2.7 % Honduras &#160; &#160; 695,049 &#160; &#160; 1.2 % Nicaragua &#160; &#160; 412,251 &#160; &#160; 0.7 % Panama &#160; &#160; 352,091 &#160; &#160; 0.6 % Costa Rica &#160; &#160; 232,937 &#160; &#160; 0.4 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total Central American Hispanics &#160; &#160; 5,752,810 &#160; &#160; 9.9 % 

Source: 2015 Geoscape 

Hispanic Television and Pay-TV Landscape 

Within the U.S. cable network industry, the U.S. Hispanic demographic is attractive for a number of reasons: 

&#149; Growth in Hispanic TV households: U.S. Hispanic television households grew by 35% during the period from 2006 to 2016, from 11.2 million households to 15.1 million households, approximately six times the overall U.S. television household growth of only 6%. The continued long-term growth of Hispanic television households creates a significant opportunity to reach an attractive audience at a time when overall household growth in the U.S. is more modest. &#149; Growth in Hispanic pay-TV subscribers: Hispanic pay-TV subscribers are expected to grow significantly, driven not only by the rapid growth in Hispanic television households, but also by the increased penetration of pay-TV among Hispanics. Hispanic pay-TV subscribers increased 53% from 2006 to 2016, growing from 7.9 million to 12.1 million subscribers, over 10 times the 5% increase in overall U.S. pay-TV subscribers during the same period. This 53% growth also significantly over-indexes the 35% Hispanic television household growth during the same period. Television Viewing and Language Preferences 

&#149; Hispanics Enjoy Movies: In 2014, Hispanics made up over 17% of the U.S. population, but accounted for 21% of movie ticket sales. In fact, the President of the National Association of Theater Owners, recently described Hispanics as "the most valuable component of moviegoers." &#149; Hispanics Prefer Television in Spanish: Spanish remains the most used language in the home by U.S. Hispanic adults, and this powerfully influences television viewing habits. According to Nielsen, more than 59% of Hispanics aged 18 and over speak Spanish as much as or more than English in their homes. Spanish-dominant or bilingual (Spanish/English Equal) homes comprise about 64% of U.S. Hispanic households, and these homes exhibit a strong preference to watch television in their native language. Spanish-dominant households view 61% of television in Spanish and bilingual homes view about 35% of television in Spanish. Hispanic Advertising Market 

Persons living in Hispanic households represent over 17% of the total U.S. population and approximately 10% of the total U.S. buying power, but only 7% of the aggregate media spend targets U.S. Hispanics. As a result, advertisers have been allocating a higher proportion of marketing dollars to the Hispanic market, but U.S. Hispanic cable advertising still under-indexes relative to its consumption. 

U.S. Hispanic cable advertising growth has significantly outpaced overall U.S. cable advertising growth as well as Hispanic broadcast advertising growth. U.S. Hispanic cable advertising revenue grew 

at a 13% CAGR from 2009 to 2015, more than doubling from $204 million to $436 million. Going forward, U.S. Hispanic cable advertising is expected to continue to grow at a 13% CAGR from 2015 to 2019, outpacing forecasted growth for U.S. cable advertising, U.S. Hispanic broadcast advertising and U.S. general market broadcast advertising. 

Similar to the under-indexing of U.S. general market cable advertising relative to viewing share 25 years ago, U.S. Hispanic cable advertising today significantly under-indexes relative to its share of the Spanish-language television audience. In 2015, U.S. Hispanic cable networks garnered only 12% of total U.S. Hispanic television advertising, while accounting for a 20% share of total Spanish-language television viewing. Viewing to Spanish-language cable networks as a percentage of total Spanish-language television viewing has grown dramatically from 11% in 2007 to 20% in 2015. 

Latin American Market (excluding Brazil) 

Latin America remains an attractive region due to its large population, shared language, strong economic growth and growing discretionary spending. Pay-TV subscribers in Latin America grew by 32% from 2012 to 2015, and are projected to grow an additional 15 million from 51 million in 2015 to 66 million by 2020 representing projected growth of approximately 29%. Pay-TV penetration of television households has expanded from 44% in 2012 to 54% in 2015 and is projected to reach 62% by 2020. This growth is expected to be driven by a sizeable and growing population, as well as a strong macroeconomic backdrop and rising disposable income across geographies. In addition, investments in network infrastructure have improved service and performance, leading to increased penetration for pay-TV operators. 

Puerto Rico Overview 

The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is a U.S. territory and has a U.S. dollar-based economy, U.S. rule of law and strong governmental ties to the United States. The broadcast television industry in Puerto Rico is regulated by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, and the banking system is regulated under the U.S. system (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation). Puerto Rico has a population of approximately 3.5 million, with an additional 5.4 million Puerto Ricans living in the mainland U.S. All Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens. 

Economy 

Once one of the poorest islands in the Caribbean, it now has the highest GDP per capita in the region. Puerto Ricans are considered citizens of the United States and the territory receives appropriations from the federal government. Puerto Rico's economy has declined each year since 2006, except for modest growth in 2012. Economic activity in Puerto Rico remains generally flat at a depressed level and there are no strong signs that a meaningful recovery is taking hold. While the Puerto Rican economy is strongly influenced by the U.S. business cycle, Puerto Rico's latest downturn started earlier and was much steeper and more prolonged than that which occurred in the U.S. This prolonged recession is due to the long-term decline in the dominant manufacturing sector, decreased competitiveness as a result of expired federal tax benefits and high energy costs. The economic hardship has been exacerbated by years of budgetary imbalance that has been funded through increased governmental borrowings. As a result, Puerto Rico's government is dealing with a poor fiscal condition, high unemployment rate and an extremely low labor force participation rate. 

On June 28, 2015, the Governor of Puerto Rico and the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico released a report by former World Bank Chief Economist and former Deputy Director of the International Monetary Fund, Dr. Anne Krueger, and economists Dr. Ranjit Teja and Dr. Andrew Wolfe that analyzes the full extent of the Commonwealth's fiscal condition including revenues, expenditures, deficits, and current and future obligations. It also makes recommendations for a 

five-year fiscal adjustment plan. The Krueger Report states that Puerto Rico faces an acute crisis in the face of faltering economic activity, fiscal solvency debt sustainability, and institutional credibility. On June 29, 2015, the Governor of Puerto Rico announced that the Government will seek alternatives to ensure that the aggregate debt burden of the Commonwealth is adjusted so it can be repaid on sustainable terms, while ensuring pension obligations are honored over the long term and essential services for the people of Puerto Rico are maintained, and issued an Executive Order to create the Puerto Rico Fiscal and Economic Recovery Working Group. After the announcement, the top three credit rating agencies, Moody's, S&#38;P and Fitch downgraded the Puerto Rico issued bonds deeper into non-investment grade status. 

Following the Kruger Report and the Governor's announcement, economic conditions in Puerto Rico have further deteriorated and continue to be uncertain. Persistent deficits in the territory's fiscal accounts, as well as mounting deficits in the operation of several major public corporations have substantially raised Puerto Rico's overall public debt to $72 billion. On August 3, 2015, Puerto Rico's Government Development Bank failed to make a $58 million payment in full due on behalf of the Public Finance Corporation, citing lack of appropriated funds for such payment, which prompted Moody's to declare an event of default. On January 4, 2016, the Government Development Bank purposefully elected to default on a $174 million payment behalf of the Public Finance Corporation and Infrastructure Financing Authority to certain lower ranked creditors (in lieu of making a payment in full to higher ranked creditors), which prompted Standard &#38; Poor's to downgrade the rating for Puerto Rico Infrastructure Financing Authority bonds from CC to D. Following Puerto Rico's second default, the U.S. Department of the Treasury urged Congress to enact legislation under the Territorial Clause of the U.S. Constitution to provide Puerto Rico with the power to restructure its approximately $72 billion in debt and other liabilities through the courts and with federal oversight. Congress seeks to review specific legislation addressing Puerto Rico's debt obligations by the end of March 2016. It is unclear if and when any specific legislation will be approved and, if approved, whether such legislation will have retroactive effect for the commonwealth's outstanding debt. The economic outlook is expected to remain negative. 

Puerto Rico Broadcast Television Market 

Puerto Rico has 1.4 million television households, comparable to that of a top 20 U.S. television market. Puerto Rico is the third largest U.S. Hispanic market behind Los Angeles and New York. 

Puerto Rican television broadcasters capture the dominant share of viewership, which is unique relative to the U.S. The three primary broadcasters in Puerto Rico&#151;WAPA, Univision and Telemundo&#151;collectively garner approximately 70% of all television household viewership in primetime, distinguishing Puerto Rico from the U.S. television market, where the four major national broadcast networks (ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox) garner a collective primetime audience share of less than 40%. In fact, WAPA's primetime household rating in 2015 was nearly four times higher than the most highly rated English-language U.S. broadcast network in the U.S., CBS, and higher than the combined ratings of CBS, NBC, ABC, FOX and the CW. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Our broadcast and cable network operations are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Puerto Rico and other countries where they operate. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting our Business are constantly subject to change. This section contains a summary of certain government regulations that may affect our operations. This information is summary in nature and does not purport to describe all present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our Business. 

Introduction 

Our Networks are subject to regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended ("Communications Act"). Under authority of the Communications Act, the FCC, among other things, assigns frequency bands for broadcast stations, including the WAPA station, and other uses; determines the location, frequency and operating power of stations; grants permits and licenses to construct and operate television stations on particular frequencies; issues, revokes, modifies and renews television broadcast station licenses; regulates equipment used by stations; determines whether to approve changes in ownership or control of station licenses; and adopts and implements regulations and policies which directly or indirectly affect the ownership, operations and profitability of broadcasting stations. 

The FCC has also adopted various rules that regulate the content of programming broadcast by television stations, including the WAPA stations, and carried by cable networks, including our Cable Networks. These rules regulate, among other things, children's programming, sponsorship identification disclosures, closed captioning of certain television programming, and obscene, indecent and profane content. Additionally, the FCC's rules require broadcast stations to implement equal employment opportunity outreach programs and maintain records relating to these programs and make filings with the FCC evidencing such efforts. The FCC could also adopt other regulations that affect cable networks, such as the requirement that the cable programming services be on an "&#225; la carte" basis, which could affect their business operations. 

The following is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, and specific FCC rules and policies and certain other statutes and regulations. The summaries are not intended to describe all present and proposed statutes and FCC rules and regulations that impact broadcast television and cable network operations. Failure to observe the provisions of the Communications Act and the FCC's rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of "short-term" (less than the maximum term) broadcast license renewals or, for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a broadcast license renewal application, the revocation of a broadcast license, or the withholding of approval for acquisition of additional broadcast properties. 

FCC Licenses and Renewal 

The Communications Act permits the operation of a broadcast station only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of a license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast licenses for specified periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms (ordinarily for the full term of eight years). Generally, the FCC renews a broadcast license upon a finding that (i) the broadcast station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or other FCC rules which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. After considering these factors, the FCC may renew a broadcast station's license, either with conditions or without, or it may designate the renewal application for hearing. In 2013, the FCC renewed our television licenses for full eight year terms expiring in 2021. 

Media Ownership Restrictions and FCC Proceedings 

The FCC's broadcast ownership rules affect the number, type and location of broadcast and newspaper properties that we are allowed to hold or acquire. The rules now in effect limit the common ownership, directly or by way of attribution, operation or control of: (i) television stations serving the same area; (ii) television stations and daily newspapers serving the same area; and (iii) television stations and radio stations serving the same area. The rules also limit the aggregate national audience reach of television stations under common ownership, directly or by way of attribution. The FCC's rules 

also define the types of positions and interests that are considered attributable for purposes of the ownership limits. In general, officers, directors and stockholders holding 5% or more of the voting interests in Hemisphere are deemed to have attributable interests. The FCC's ownership limits therefore apply to our principals and certain investors in our Company. 

The FCC is required by statute to review all of its broadcast ownership rules every four years to determine if such rules remain necessary in the public interest. The FCC must review its media ownership rules every four years. In April, 2014, the FCC issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to initiate its 2014 quadrennial review of the multiple ownership rules. The FCC determined that the record from the 2010 quadrennial review&#151;which proposed changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule and the elimination of the radio-television cross-ownership rule&#151;be incorporated as part of the 2014 review. The FCC also requested comments on whether local news service agreements and/or shared services agreements should be considered attributable for purposes of applying the media ownership restrictions. The FCC has indicated that it will more closely scrutinize arrangements that involved shared services agreements. 

Local Television Ownership Rule 

Under the local television ownership rule, one party may own, operate, or control up to two television stations in a market, so long as the market would have at least eight independently owned full power television stations after the combination and at least one of the stations is not one of the top-four-rated stations (based on audience share) in the television market. The rule also permits the ownership, operation or control of two television stations in a market as long as the stations' Noise Limited Service contours do not overlap. In 2011 the FCC sought comments on its proposal to eliminate the contour overlap exception that permits common ownership of two television stations in the same market. At that time, the FCC proposed to grandfather existing common ownership of stations that would not be permitted after the elimination of this exception. The matter remains pending. Broadcast stations designated by the FCC as "satellite" stations are exempt from the local television ownership rule. WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV have been designated by the FCC as "satellite" stations of WAPA-TV, a division of WAPA. The FCC may also waive its local television ownership rule to permit ownership, operation or control of two television stations in a market that would not otherwise be permissible if one of the stations is in involuntary bankruptcy, is a "failed" station, or is "failing" (i.e., stations with negative cash flow and less than a four share all day audience rating). Under the local television ownership rule, the licensee of a television station that provides more than 15% of another in-market station's weekly programming or advertising will be deemed to have an attributable interest in the other station. 

Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule 

The radio-television cross-ownership rule generally allows common ownership of one or two television stations and up to six radio stations, or, in certain circumstances, one television station and seven radio stations, in any market where at least 20 independent voices would remain after the combination; two television stations and up to four radio stations in a market where at least 10 independent voices would remain after the combination; and one television and one radio station notwithstanding the number of independent voices in the market. A "voice" generally includes independently owned, same-market commercial and noncommercial broadcast television and radio stations, newspapers of certain minimum circulation, and one cable system per market. 

Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule 

Under the currently effective newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule, unless grandfathered or subject to waiver, no party can have an attributable interest in both a daily newspaper (published at least 4 days a week, in the dominant language of the market, and with a circulation exceeding 5% of 

the households in the designated market area) and either a television station or a radio station in the same market if specified signal contours of the television station or the radio station encompass the entire community in which the newspaper is published. 

Attribution of Ownership 

Pursuant to FCC rules, the following relationships and interests are generally considered attributable for purposes of broadcast ownership restrictions: (i) all officers and directors of a corporate licensee and its direct or indirect parent(s); (ii) voting stock interests of at least five percent; (iii) voting stock interests of at least 20 percent, if the holder is a passive institutional investor (such as an investment company, bank, or insurance company); (iv) any equity interest in a limited partnership or limited liability company, unless properly "insulated" from management activities; (v) equity and/or debt interests that in the aggregate exceed 33 percent of a licensee's total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15 percent of the station's total weekly programming or is a same-market broadcast company or daily newspaper publisher; (vi) time brokerage of a broadcast station by a same-market broadcast company; and (vii) same-market radio and television joint sales agreements. Because we are controlled by a single stockholder holding a majority of the voting power of our capital stock, the FCC's current rules do not treat other five percent or greater voting stockholders as attributable, and those ownership interests are not required to be reported to the FCC. Pending before the FCC is a proposal to eliminate the single majority shareholder exception. The FCC is also considering a proposal to require the disclosure in biennial ownership reports of information about five percent or greater voting shareholders, even if such interests are not attributable under the FCC's ownership rules. 

Management services agreements and other types of shared services arrangements between same-market stations that do not include attributable time brokerage or joint sales components generally are not deemed attributable under the FCC's current ownership rules, but as indicated above, the FCC is considering a proposal to change this rule and will also scrutinize more closely transactions that involved shared services arrangements. 

Commission Approval of Transfer of Control of FCC Licenses 

The FCC's prior approval is required for the transfer of control or assignment of FCC licenses. We are currently controlled by InterMedia Partners VII, L.P. and its affiliates ("InterMedia"), which owns approximately 84% of our Class B common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Class B common stock"). The FCC's prior consent would be required prior to any transaction that would result in a change in control of Hemisphere or InterMedia. An application for consent to a transfer of control or assignment of licenses would be subject to a formal public notice and comment period during which petitions to deny the applications would be accepted by the FCC. 

A person or entity requesting the FCC's consent to acquire or obtain control of our television station licenses must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC's ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest. As discussed above, we own two television stations, WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV, which are operated as "satellite" stations of WAPA-TV. Stations granted satellite status are exempt from the FCC's local television ownership rule. Thus, this status permits the common ownership of the three WAPA broadcast stations that would not otherwise be permitted. WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV were first accorded satellite status in 2001 due to the unique circumstances of the Puerto Rico market, including its topography and economic conditions, and the FCC has renewed this grant in subsequent transactions. We anticipate the FCC would continue to grant satellite status to WNJX-TV and WTIN-TV in future change-in-control transactions. 

Alien Ownership Restrictions 

Under the Communications Act, a broadcast license may not be granted to or held by any corporation that has more than 20% of its capital stock owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities, whom the FCC refers to as "aliens," or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives, or by non-U.S. corporations. 

Furthermore, the Communications Act provides that no FCC broadcast license may be granted to or held by any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than 25% of the capital stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives, or by non-U.S. corporations, if the FCC finds the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. These restrictions apply in modified form to other forms of business organizations, including partnerships and limited liability companies. The FCC has interpreted this provision of the Communications Act to require an affirmative public interest finding before a broadcast license may be granted to or held by any such entity. In the past, the FCC has made such an affirmative finding with respect to broadcast licenses only in highly limited circumstances. In 2013, however, the FCC issued a declaratory ruling that notwithstanding its past practices, it will consider on a case-by-case basis requests for approval of acquisitions by aliens of in excess of 25% of the capital stock of the parent of a broadcast licensee. In 2015, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding proposing to simplify the foreign ownership approval process for broadcast station licensees. In acting upon a request for declaratory ruling, the FCC will coordinate with Executive Branch agencies on national security, law enforcement, foreign policy and trade policy issues. The FCC could revoke the licenses for WAPA's television stations if more than 25% of our outstanding capital stock is issued to or for the benefit of non-U.S. citizens, unless the FCC has ruled in advance that such investments by foreigners are in the public interest. 

To the extent necessary to comply with the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies, our board of directors may (i) take any action it believes necessary to prohibit the ownership or voting of more than 25% of our outstanding capital stock by or for the account of aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof or by any entity organized under the laws of a foreign country (collectively, "Aliens"), or by any other entity (a) that is subject to or deemed to be subject to control by Aliens on a de jure or de facto basis or (b) owned by, or held for the benefit of Aliens in a manner that would cause us to be in violation of the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies; (ii) prohibit any transfer of our stock which we believe could cause more than 25% of our outstanding capital stock to be owned or voted by or for any person or entity identified in the foregoing clause (i); (iii) prohibit the ownership, voting or transfer of any portion of its outstanding capital stock to the extent the ownership, voting or transfer of such portion would cause us to violate or would otherwise result in violation of any provision of the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies; (iv) convert shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock to the extent necessary to bring us into compliance with the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies; and (v) redeem capital stock to the extent necessary to bring us into compliance with the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies or to prevent the loss or impairment of any of our FCC licenses. 

Digital Television 

As of June 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease broadcasting analog programming and convert to all digital broadcasts. Digital broadcasting allows stations to offer digital channels for a wide variety of services such as high definition video programming, multiple channels of standard definition video programming, such as WAPA2 Deportes, data, and other types of communications. Each station is required to provide at least one free over-the-air video program signal. 

To the extent a station has "excess" digital capacity (i.e., digital capacity not used to transmit free, over-the-air video programming), it may elect to use that capacity in any manner consistent with FCC technical requirements, including for data transmission, interactive or subscription video services, or paging and information services. If a station uses its digital capacity to provide any such "ancillary or supplementary" services on a subscription or otherwise "feeable" basis, it must pay the FCC an annual fee equal to 5% of the gross revenues realized from such services. 

MVPD Retransmission of Local Television Signals 

A number of provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules govern aspects of the relationship between broadcast television stations and distributors of multiple channels of video programming such as cable, satellite and telecommunications companies (referred to as MVPDs). The rules generally provide certain protections for local broadcast stations, for which MPVDs are an important means of distribution and a provider of competing program channels. 

To ensure that every local television station can be received in its local market without requiring a cable subscriber to switch between cable and off-air signals, the FCC allows every full-power television broadcast station to require that all local cable systems and direct broadcast satellite transmit that station's primary digital channel to their subscribers within the station's market (the so-called "must-carry" rule). Alternatively, a station may elect to forego its must-carry rights and seek a negotiated agreement to establish the terms of its carriage by a local MVPD&#151;referred to as "retransmission consent." A station electing retransmission consent assumes the risk that it will not be able to strike a deal with the MPVD and will not be carried. A station has the opportunity to elect must-carry or retransmission consent every three years. Elections were made in October 2014 for the 2015-2017 three year period. WAPA elected retransmission consent and has entered into retransmission consent contracts with all MVPD systems serving Puerto Rico. 

MVPDs are not required to carry any programming streams other than a station's primary video programming channel. Consequently, WAPA's multicast channel WAPA2 Deportes is not entitled to mandatory carriage under the FCC's must-carry rules. However, we are free to negotiate with MVPDs for the carriage of additional programming streams. 

In March 2011 and again in September 2015, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (each a, "NPRM") reviewing the retransmission consent rules. The NPRMs request comment on proposals to strengthen the good faith negotiation requirements and to require advance notice of the potential that a television station could be dropped from an MVPD's programming lineup. In 2014, the FCC adopted rules prohibiting a television broadcast station that is ranked among the top four stations to negotiate retransmission consent jointly with another station, if the stations are not commonly owned and serve the same geographic market. In December 2014, the FCC issued a separate NPRM requesting comment on whether the definition of MVPD should be expanded to include providers that make multiple linear streams of video programming available for purchase, regardless of the technology used to distribute the programming (e.g. entities providing video programming to subscribers through internet connections). Each of these proceedings is pending, and we cannot predict what impact, if any, they will have on our negotiations with video programming distributors. 

Repurposing of Broadcast Spectrum for Other Uses 

Federal legislation was enacted in February 2012 that, among other things, authorizes the FCC to conduct voluntary "incentive auctions" in order to reallocate certain spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services, to "repack" television stations into a smaller portion of the existing television spectrum band, and to require television stations that do not participate in the auction to modify their transmission facilities, subject to reimbursement for reasonable relocation costs up to an industry-wide total of $1.75 billion. 

The FCC has adopted rules concerning the incentive auction and the repacking of the television band and has commenced the auction process. Under the auction rules implemented by the FCC, television stations will be given an opportunity to offer spectrum for sale to the government in a "reverse" auction while wireless providers will bid to acquire spectrum from the government in a related "forward" auction. Applications from television stations to participate in the auction were due on January 12, 2016 and the auction will begin on March 29, 2016. We have filed an application to participate in the auction. We and our agents, employees, officers, directors and owners are subject to strict FCC prohibitions on directly or indirectly communicating&#151;both internally and externally&#151;information regarding our bidding strategy or the status of our bids in the auction. Accordingly, we will not be able to publicly communicate any updated information about our application other than as stated above. In particular, we will not be able to publicly communicate the preliminary results of our participation in the auction, which we may be apprised of as early as the second quarter of 2016, until the auction is completed, which may not be before the fourth quarter of 2016. These restrictions could have the effect of limiting our ability to access the equity or debt markets during that period, which could adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital or refinance our indebtedness, thereby adversely impacting our ability to reduce our cost of borrowing. If the FCC believes that there have been irregularities in our bidding, or receives a complaint to such effect, then it may launch an investigation and require us to demonstrate that we took adequate precautions to limit our public communications during the auction. Any violation of these prohibitions could result in significant penalties and reversal of our bids, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Following completion of the incentive auction, the FCC will "repack" the remaining television broadcast spectrum, which may require certain television stations that did not participate in the reverse auction to modify their transmission facilities, including requiring such stations to operate on other channel designations. The FCC will reimburse stations for reasonable relocation costs up to a total across all stations of $1.75 billion. When repacking , the FCC will make reasonable efforts to preserve a station's coverage area and population served. In addition, the FCC is prohibited from requiring a station to move involuntarily from the UHF band, the band in which WAPA's broadcast licenses operate, to the VHF band or from the high VHF band to the low VHF band. 

The outcome of the incentive auction and repacking of broadcast television spectrum, or the impact of such items on WAPA's business, cannot be predicted. 

EEO Rules 

The FCC's Equal Employment Opportunity ("EEO") rules impose job information dissemination, recruitment, documentation and reporting requirements on broadcast television stations. Broadcasters are also subject to random audits to ensure compliance with the FCC's EEO rules and may be sanctioned for noncompliance. 

Recordkeeping 

The FCC rules require broadcast television stations to maintain various records regarding operations, including equipment performance records and a log of the station's operating parameters. Television stations must also maintain a public inspection file, portions of which are hosted on an FCC-maintained website. This file must contain various records, including the station license, FCC applications, contour maps, ownership reports, political broadcasting records, EEO public file reports, a copy of the manual "The Public and Broadcasting," correspondence from the public, material regarding FCC investigations or complaints, issues/programs lists, children's television programming reports, records concerning compliance with commercial limits in children's programming, time brokerage agreements and joint sales agreements, and statements of must-carry/retransmission elections. 

Broadcast Localism 

In 2007, the FCC issued a Report on Broadcast Localism and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (the "Localism Report"). The Localism Report tentatively concluded that broadcast stations should be required to have regular meetings with permanent local advisory boards to ascertain the needs and interests of their communities. The Localism Report also tentatively adopted specific renewal application processing guidelines that would require broadcasters to air a minimum amount of local programming. The Localism Report sought public comment on two additional rule changes that would impact television broadcasters. These rule changes would restrict a broadcaster's ability to locate a station's main studio outside the community of license and the right to operate a station remotely. To date, the FCC has not issued a decision adopting rules to implement any of the initiatives in the Localism Report, and it cannot be predicted whether or when the FCC might act to codify any such initiatives. 

Programming and Operations 

Rules and policies of the FCC and other federal agencies regulate certain programming practices and other areas affecting the business or operations of broadcast stations, including WAPA, and cable networks, including WAPA America and Cinelatino. 

Obscenity, Indecency and Profanity. Federal statutes prohibit the broadcast or transmission of obscene material at any time by broadcast television stations, including the WAPA stations or on cable networks, including WAPA America and Cinelatino. The FCC's rules also prohibit television stations, including the WAPA stations, from broadcasting indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. In recent years, the FCC has intensified its enforcement activities with respect to programming it considers indecent and has issued numerous fines to licensees found to have violated the indecency rules. 

In July 2007, the FCC implemented increased forfeiture amounts for indecency violations that were enacted by Congress. The maximum permitted fine for an indecency violation is $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. 

Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints on an ex parte basis, a licensee may not have knowledge of an indecency complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture. In July 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued a decision finding that the FCC's indecency standard was too vague for broadcasters to interpret and therefore inconsistent with the First Amendment. In June 2011, the Supreme Court granted certiorari in this case. In June 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision which held that the FCC could not fine ABC and FOX (two television networks that were fined for airing allegedly indecent material) for the specific broadcasts at issue because the FCC had not provided them with sufficient notice of its intent to issue fines for the use of fleeting expletives or momentary nudity. However, the Supreme Court did not make any substantive ruling regarding the FCC's current indecency policies. In April 2013, the FCC requested comments on its indecency policy, including whether to ban the use of fleeting expletives or whether it should only impose fines from broadcasts that involve repeated and deliberate use of expletives. The FCC has not issued any decisions regarding indecency enforcement since the Supreme Court's decision was issued, although it has advised that it will continue to pursue enforcement actions in egregious cases while it conducts its review of its indecency policy generally. 

Children's Programming. Federal statutes and FCC rules require broadcast television stations, including the WAPA stations, to broadcast three hours per week of educational and informational programming ("E/I programming") designed for children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also require television stations to air E/I programming on each additional digital multicast program stream 

broadcast, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. 

Federal statutes and FCC rules also limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be included in programming primarily produced and carried for children 12 years and younger by broadcast television stations and cable networks, including WAPA America and Cinelatino. The FCC's rules also limit the display, during children's programming on broadcast stations and cable networks, of Internet addresses of websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products. In October 2009, the FCC issued a Notice of Inquiry ("Children's NOI") seeking comment on a broad range of issues related to children's usage of electronic media and the current regulatory landscape that governs the availability of electronic media to children. The Children's NOI remains pending, and it cannot be predicted what recommendations or further action, if any, will result from it. 

Some U.S. policymakers have sought limitations on food and beverage marketing in media popular with children and teens. In April 2011, the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children, which is comprised of the Federal Trade Commission, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, jointly requested comment on proposed nutritional restrictions for food and beverage marketing directed to children and teens aged 17 years and under. Although the proposed guidelines are nominally voluntary, if these or other similar guidelines are implemented by food and beverage marketers, they could have a negative impact on our Networks advertising revenues. 

Commercial Loudness. The 2010 Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act ("CALM Act") and the FCC rules implementing the CALM Act, require television stations, cable television operators, satellite television providers, and other pay television providers to limit the average volume of commercials, including promotional announcements, to the same average volume as the programming it accompanies. The FCC rules do not specifically require video programming providers, such as WAPA America or Cinelatino, to comply with the rules regarding the loudness of commercials. However, video programming distributors may request or require by contract that programming providers certify compliance with those rules for commercials embedded in programming. 

Closed Captioning. FCC rules require the majority of programming broadcast by television stations and carried on cable networks to contain closed captions. In January 2012, the FCC adopted rules to require that television programming broadcast by television stations, including the WAPA stations, or transmitted by cable, including on WAPA America or Cinelatino, with captioning include captioning if subsequently made available online, for example, by streaming on WAPA.TV. Clips of programming carried on television are required to be captioned if subsequently distributed over the internet. Additionally, beginning in March 2015, new FCC rules became effective that require programming captions to adhere to more stringent quality standards. 

Sponsorship Identification. Both the Communications Act and the FCC's rules generally require that, when payment or other consideration has been received or promised to a broadcast television station for the airing of program material, the station must disclose that fact and identify who paid or promised to provide the consideration at the time of broadcast. Cable systems are subject to the same requirement when the system is originating programming, also known as cablecasting. In June 2008 the FCC sought comments on whether it should adopt additional regulations with respect to sponsorship identification requirements on cable programmers. That proceeding remains pending. 

Program Access Restrictions 

Under the Communications Act, vertically integrated cable programmers are generally prohibited from offering different prices, terms, or conditions to competing multichannel video programming 

distributors unless the differential is justified by certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC's regulations. The FCC's "program access" rules previously limited the ability of a vertically integrated cable programmer to enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable television operators. However, in 2012, the FCC declined to extend the exclusive contract prohibition section of the program access rules beyond its October 5, 2012 sunset date. A cable programmer is considered to be vertically integrated if it owns or is owned by a cable television operator, in whole or in part, under the FCC's program access attribution rules. Cable television operators for this purpose may include telephone companies that provide video programming directly to subscribers. Any holdings of cable television operators by our shareholders, officers, and directors may be attributable to us, and therefore could have the effect of making WAPA America and Cinelatino subject to the program access rules, which could adversely affect the flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for their content. 

Regulation of the Internet 

Internet services, including WAPA.TV, CINELATINO.COM, TVPASIONES.COM, CENTROAMERICATV.TV, and TELEVISIONDOMINICANA.TV, are subject to regulation in the U.S. relating to the privacy and security of personally identifiable user information and acquisition of personal information from children under 13, including the federal Child Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) and the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (CAN-SPAM). In addition, a majority of states have enacted laws that impose data security and security breach obligations. Additional federal, state, territorial laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services, covering such issues as user privacy, child safety, data security, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities, distribution, taxation and characteristics and quality of products and services. 

Other Regulations 

In addition to the regulations applicable to the broadcast, cable television and Internet industries in general, we are also subject to other federal, state, territorial, and local regulations, including, without limitation, regulations promulgated by federal, state, and territorial environmental, health and labor agencies. Cinelatino is also subject to laws and regulations that may be adopted or promulgated by the governments of other jurisdictions in which it operates. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") are made available free of charge on or through our website at www.hemispheretv.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Commission. 

You may read and copy any materials we file with the Commission at the Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our reports, proxy statements and other information at www.sec.gov . In addition, copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, are available at our website at www.hemispheretv.com under "Investor Relations&#151;Corporate Governance." Copies will also be provided to any Hemisphere stockholder upon written request to Investor Relations, Hemisphere Media Group, Inc. at 2000 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Suite 500, Coral Gables, FL, 33134, or via electronic mail at ir@hemispheretv.com, or by contacting Investor Relations by telephone at (212) 687-8080. 

