 Item 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

General 

BBCN Bancorp, Inc. (&#8220;BBCN Bancorp&#8221; on a parent-only basis, and the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; on a consolidated basis) is a bank holding company headquartered in Los Angeles, California. We offer commercial and retail banking loan and deposit products through our wholly owned subsidiary, BBCN Bank, a California state-chartered bank (the &#8220;Bank&#8221; or &#8220;BBCN Bank&#8221;). BBCN Bank primarily focuses its business in Korean communities in California, New Jersey, and the New York City, Chicago, Seattle and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas. Our headquarters are located at 3731 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1000, Los Angeles, California 90010, and our telephone number at that address is (213) 639-1700. 

BBCN Bancorp exists primarily for the purpose of holding the stock of the Bank and of such other subsidiaries as it may acquire or establish. BBCN Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;), up to applicable limits. 

We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;), which include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as proxy statements and information statements in connection with our stockholders meetings and other information. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The SEC maintains a website that contains the reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. Our website address is http://www.bbcnbank.com . Electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other information and reports we file with the SEC and amendments to those reports, are available free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. These reports are generally posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. None of the information on or hyperlinked from the Company&#8217;s website is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Pending Merger Transaction 

On December 7, 2015 we announced the signing of a definitive agreement and plan of merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;) with Wilshire Bancorp, Inc. (&#8220;Wilshire&#8221;) pursuant to which Wilshire will merge (the &#8220;merger&#8221;) with and into BBCN Bancorp with BBCN Bancorp as the surviving corporation. As part of the merger, Wilshire Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wilshire, will merge with and into the Bank. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Wilshire shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 0.7034 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each share of Wilshire common stock they own in a 100% stock-for-stock transaction. Based on the closing price of our common stock on February 22, 2015, this represents a value of $10.10 per share of Wilshire common stock and an overall transaction value of approximately $794 million. If the 

merger is consummated, our shareholders will own approximately 59% of the combined entity and Wilshire shareholders will ownapproximately 41% of the combined entity. 

As of December 31, 2015, on a pro forma consolidated basis, the combined company would have had approximately $13 billion in assets with 85 branches throughout California, New York, New Jersey, Washington, Georgia, Alabama, Illinois and Texas. 

The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, and each party has agreed to customary covenants, including, among others, covenants relating to the conduct of its business during the interim period between execution of the Merger Agreement and the closing time. In addition, the consummation of the Merger Agreement is subject to customary conditions, including approval by our and Wilshire&#8217;s shareholders and the receipt of requisite regulatory approvals. We currently expect to close the merger in mid-2016 subject to satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. 

Additional Information and Where to Find It 

In connection with the proposed Merger, we will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus of Wilshire and us as well as other relevant documents concerning the proposed transaction. Shareholders are urged to read the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus regarding the merger when it becomes available and any other relevant documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), as well as any amendments or supplements to those documents, because they will contain important information. You will be able to obtain a free copy of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about BBCN Bancorp and Wilshire at the SEC&#8217;s Internet site (www.sec.gov). You will also be able to obtain these documents, free of charge, from BBCN Bancorp at www.BBCNbank.com in the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section under the &#8220;About&#8221; tab. 

Participants in Solicitation 

BBCN Bancorp, Wilshire and their respective directors, executive officers, management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the merger. Information concerning BBCN Bancorp&#8217;s participants is set forth in the proxy statement, dated May 1, 2015, and supplemental proxy materials, dated May 20, 2015, for BBCN Bancorp&#8217;s 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, as filed with the SEC on Schedules 14A. Information concerning Wilshire&#8217;s participants is set forth in the proxy statement, dated April 9, 2015, for Wilshire 2015 annual meeting of stockholders as filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A. Additional information regarding the interests of participants of BBCN Bancorp and Wilshire in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the merger will be included in the registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus to be filed with the SEC. 

Business Overview 

Our principal business activities are conducted through the Bank and primarily consist of earning interest on loans and investment securities that are funded by customer deposits and other borrowings. Operating revenues consist of the difference between interest received and interest paid, gains and losses on the sale of financial assets and fees earned for financial services provided. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, new legislation affecting the banking industry and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Although our business may vary with local and national economic conditions, such variations are not generally seasonal in nature. 

Through our current network of 50 branches and eight loan production offices, we offer core business banking products for small and medium-sized businesses and individuals. We accept deposits and originate a variety of loans, including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, trade finance loans, Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) loans, auto loans, single-family mortgages, and credit cards. We offer cash management services to our business customers, which include remote deposit capture, lock box and ACH origination services. We offer comprehensive investment and wealth management services to high-net-worth clients. We also offer a mobile banking application for smartphones that extends convenient banking services, such as mobile deposits and bill payment, into the hands of customers at all times. To better meet our customers&#8217; needs, our mini-market branches generally offer extended hours from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Most of our branches operate 24-hour automated teller machines (&#8220;ATMs&#8221;). We also offer debit card services with a rewards program to all customers. Our banking officers focus on customers to better support their banking needs. In addition, most of our branches offer travelers&#8217; checks, safe deposit boxes and other customary bank services. Our website at www.bbcnbank.com &#32;offers internet banking services and applications in both English and Korean. 

Lending Activities 

Commercial Business Loans 

We provide commercial loans to businesses for various purposes such as for working capital, purchasing inventory, debt refinancing, business acquisitions and other business related financing needs. Commercial loans are typically classified as (1) short-term loans (or lines of credit) or (2) long-term loans (or term loans to businesses). Short-term loans are often used to 

finance current assets such as inventory and accounts receivable and typically have terms of one year with interest paid monthly on the outstanding balance and the principal balance due at maturity. Long-term loans typically have terms of 5 to 7 years with principal and interest paid monthly. The credit worthiness of our borrowers is determined before a loan is originated and is periodically reviewed to ascertain whether credit quality changes have occurred. Commercial business loans are typically collateralized by the borrower&#8217;s business assets and/or real estate. 

Our commercial business loan portfolio includes trade finance loans from our Corporate Banking Center, which generally serves businesses involved in international trade activities. These loans are typically collateralized by business assets and are used to meet the short-term working capital needs (accounts receivable and inventory financing) of our borrowers. Our International Operations Department issues and advises on letters of credit for export and import businesses. The underwriting procedure for this type of credit is the same as for commercial business loans. We offer the following types of letters of credit to customers: 

&#8226; 

Commercial: An undertaking by the issuing bank to pay for a commercial transaction. 

&#8226; 

Standby: An undertaking by the issuing bank to pay for the non-performance of the applicant customer. 

&#8226; 

Revocable: Letter of credit that can be modified or cancelled by the issuing bank at any time with notice to the beneficiary (does not provide the beneficiary with a firm promise of payment). 

&#8226; 

Irrevocable: Letter of credit that cannot be altered or cancelled without mutual consent of all parties. 

&#8226; 

Sight: Letter of credit requiring payment upon presentation of conforming shipping documents. 

&#8226; 

Usance: Letter of credit which allows the buyer to delay payment up to a designated number of days after presentation of shipping documents. 

&#8226; 

Import: Letter of credit issued to assist customers in purchasing goods from overseas. 

&#8226; 

Export: Letter of credit issued to assist customers in selling goods to overseas. 

&#8226; 

Transferable: Letter of credit which allows the beneficiary to transfer its drawing (payment) rights, in part or full, to another party. 

&#8226; 

Non-transferable: Letter of credit which does not allow the beneficiary to transfer their right, in part or full, to another. 

Our trade finance services include the issuance and negotiation of letters of credit, as well as the handling of documentary collections. On the export side, we provide advice and negotiation of commercial letters of credit and we transfer and issue back-to-back letters of credit. We also provide importers with trade finance lines of credit, which allow for the issuance of commercial letters of credit and the financing of documents received under such letters of credit, as well as documents received under documentary collections. Exporters are assisted through export lines of credit as well as through immediate financing of clean documents presented under export letters of credit. 

Commercial Real Estate Loans 

Real estate loans are extended for the purchase and refinance of commercial real estate and are generally secured by first deeds of trust. The maturities on the majority of such loans are generally five to seven years with a 25-year principal amortization schedule and a balloon payment due at maturity. We offer both fixed and floating rate commercial real estate loans. It is our general policy to restrict commercial real estate loan amounts to 75% of the appraised value of the property at the date of origination. 

Small Business Administration Loans 

We extend loans partially guaranteed by the SBA. We primarily extend SBA loans known as SBA 7(a) loans and SBA 504 loans. SBA 7(a) loans are typically extended for working capital needs, purchase of inventory, purchase of machinery and equipment, debt refinance, business acquisitions, start-up financing or to purchase or construct owner-occupied commercial property. SBA 7(a) loans are typically term loans with maturities up to 10 years for loans not secured by real estate and up to 25 years for real estate secured loans. SBA loans are fully amortizing with monthly payments of principal and interest. SBA 7(a) loans are typically floating rate loans that are secured by business assets and/or real estate. Depending on the loan amount, each loan is typically guaranteed 75% to 85% by the SBA, with a maximum gross loan amount to any one small business borrower of $5.0 million and a maximum SBA guaranteed amount of $3.75 million. 

We are generally able to sell the guaranteed portion of the SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market at a premium, while earning servicing fee income on the sold portion over the remaining life of the loan. In addition to the interest yield earned on the unguaranteed portion of the SBA 7(a) loans that are not sold, we recognize income from gains on sales and from loan servicing on the SBA 7(a) loans that are sold. 

SBA 504 loans are typically extended for the purpose of purchasing owner-occupied commercial real estate or long-term capital equipment. SBA 504 loans are typically extended for up to 20 years or the life of the asset being financed. SBA 504 loans are financed as a participation loan between the Bank and the SBA through a Certified Development Company (&#8220;CDC&#8221;). Generally, the loans are structured to give the Bank a 50% first deed of trust (&#8220;TD&#8221;), the CDC a 40% second TD, and the remaining 10% is funded by the borrower. Interest rates for the first TD Bank loans are subject to normal bank commercial rates and terms and the second TD CDC loans are fixed for the life of the loans based on certain indices. 

All of our SBA loans are originated through our SBA Loan Departments. The SBA Loan Departments are staffed by loan officers who provide assistance to qualified businesses. The Bank has been designated as an SBA Preferred Lender, which is the highest designation awarded by the SBA. This designation generally facilitates a more efficient marketing and approval process for SBA loans. We have attained SBA Preferred Lender status nationwide. 

Consumer Loans 

Our consumer loans consist of auto loans, home equity, single-family mortgages, and signature loans, with a majority of our consumer loan portfolio currently consisting of single-family mortgages. 

Investing Activities 

The main objectives of our investment strategy are to provide a source of on-balance sheet liquidity while providing a means to manage our interest rate risk, and to generate an adequate level of interest income without taking undue risks. Subject to various restrictions, our investment policy permits investment in various types of securities, certificates of deposit (&#8220;CDs&#8221;) and federal funds sold. Our investment portfolio consists of government sponsored agency bonds, mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;), trust preferred securities, municipal bonds and mutual funds. For a detailed breakdown of our investment portfolio, see Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Financial Condition &#8211; Investment Security Portfolio.&#8221; 

Our securities are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. We do not maintain held-to-maturity or trading portfolios. Securities purchased to meet investment-related objectives, such as liquidity management or interest rate risk and which may be sold as necessary to implement management strategies, are designated as available-for-sale at the time of purchase. 

Deposit Activities 

We attract both short-term and long-term deposits from the general public by offering a wide range of deposit products and services. Through our branch network, we provide our banking customers with personal and business checking accounts, money market accounts, savings accounts, CDs, individual retirement accounts, 24-hour ATMs, internet banking and bill-pay, remote deposit capture, lock boxes and ACH origination services. In addition to our retail deposits, we obtain both secured and unsecured wholesale deposits including public deposits such as State of California Treasurer&#8217;s time deposits, brokered money market and time deposits, and deposits gathered from outside of the Bank&#8217;s normal market area through deposit listing services. 

FDIC-insured deposits are our primary source of funds. As part of our asset-liability management, we analyze our retail and wholesale deposit maturities and interest rates to monitor and manage our cost of funds, to the extent feasible in the context of changing market conditions, as well as to promote stability in our supply of funds. For more deposit information, see Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Financial Condition &#8211; Deposits.&#8221; 

Borrowing Activities 

When we have more funds than required for our reserve requirements or short-term liquidity needs, we may sell federal funds to other financial institutions. Conversely, when we have less funds than required, we may borrow funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (the &#8220;FHLB&#8221;), the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or our correspondent banks. In addition, we may borrow from the FHLB on a longer term basis to provide funding for certain loan or investment securities strategies, as well as asset-liability management strategies. 

The FHLB functions in a reserve credit capacity for qualifying financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the FHLB and may apply for advances from the FHLB utilizing qualifying mortgage loans and certain securities as collateral. The FHLB offers a full range of borrowing programs on its advances, with terms ranging from one day to thirty years, at competitive market rates. A prepayment penalty is usually imposed for early repayment of these advances. Information concerning FHLB advances is included in Note 8 of &#8220;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.&#8221; 

We may also borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The maximum amount that we may borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank&#8217;s discount window is up to 95% of the outstanding principal balance of the qualifying loans and the fair value of the securities that we pledge. 

Market Area and Competition 

We currently have 50 banking offices in areas having high concentrations of Korean Americans, of which 28 are located in the Los Angeles, Orange County, Oakland and Silicon Valley (Santa Clara County) areas of California, 8 are located in the New York City metropolitan area and New Jersey, 4 are in the Seattle metropolitan area, 8 are in the Chicago metropolitan area and 2 are in Virginia. We also have eight loan production offices located in Dallas, Seattle, Atlanta, Northern California, Denver, Portland, and Annandale, Virginia. The banking and financial services industry generally, and in our market areas specifically, is highly competitive. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of strong competition among the banks servicing the Korean-American community, changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and consolidation among financial services companies. In addition, federal legislation may have the effect of further increasing the pace of consolidation within the financial services industry. See &#8220;Supervision and Regulation.&#8221; 

We compete for loans, deposits and customers with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, marketplace platforms finance companies, money market funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, are more widely recognized, have broader geographic scope and offer a broader range of financial services than we do. Even if we successfully complete our pending merger with Wilshire, we believe we will still face substantial competition in our market areas. 

Economic Conditions, Government Policies and Legislation 

Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends, among other things, on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, and the interest income on our interest earning assets, such as loans we extend to our customers and securities held in our investment portfolio, as well as the level of noninterest bearing deposits, have a significant impact on our profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as the economy, inflation, unemployment, consumer spending and political events. The impact that future changes in domestic and foreign economic and political conditions might have on our performance cannot be predicted. 

Our business is also influenced by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board (the &#8220;FRB&#8221;). The FRB implements national monetary policies (with objectives such as curbing inflation or preventing recession) through its open-market operations in U.S. government securities, by adjusting the required level of reserves for depository institutions subject to its reserve requirements and by varying the targeted federal funds and discount rates applicable to borrowings by depository institutions. The actions of the FRB in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits and also affect interest rates earned on interest earning assets and paid on interest bearing liabilities. The nature and impact on BBCN Bancorp and the Bank of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies cannot be predicted. 

From time to time, legislation and regulations are enacted or adopted which have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and other financial institutions and financial services providers are frequently made in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures, and by various regulatory agencies. These proposals may result in changes in banking statutes and regulations and our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our financial condition or results of operations. See &#8220;Supervision and Regulation.&#8221; 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

The Company is registered with and subject to examination by the FRB as a bank holding company and is also subject to certain provisions of the California Financial Code as applicable to bank holding companies. As a California state-chartered bank whose accounts are insured by the FDIC, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the California Department of Business Oversight (the &#8220;DBO&#8221;) and the FDIC. Such supervision and regulation covers substantially all of its business activities, including, among others, capital standards, general investment authority, deposit taking and borrowing authority, mergers, establishment of branch offices and permitted subsidiary investments and activities. In addition, while the Bank is not a member of the FRB, the Bank is subject to certain regulations of the FRB. The federal and state regulatory systems are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC deposit insurance fund (the &#8220;DIF&#8221;) and the banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of shareholders or other investors. 

The following paragraphs summarize certain of the laws and regulations that apply to the Company and to the Bank. These descriptions of statutes and regulations and their possible effects do not purport to be complete descriptions of all of the provisions of those statutes and regulations and their possible effects on us, nor do they purport to identify every statute and regulation that may apply to us. 

Legislation and Regulatory Developments 

The federal banking agencies continue to implement the remaining requirements in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) as well as promulgating other regulations and guidelines intended to assure the financial strength and safety and soundness of banks and the stability of the U.S. banking system. Following on the implementation in 2014 and effectiveness in 2015 of new capital rules (&#8220;the New Capital Rules&#8221;) and the so called Volcker Rule restrictions on certain proprietary trading and investment activities, developments in 2015 included: 

(i) the extension of the Volcker Rule conformance period until July 21, 2016 and a possible additional extension until 2017 for banking institutions to conform existing investments, including certain collateralized loan obligations, and relationships, with certain exceptions, with &#8220;covered funds&#8221;, including hedge funds, private equity funds and certain other private funds. The Company and the Bank held no investment positions at December 31, 2015 which were subject to the final rule. - See &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; 

(ii) the shift in the stress testing cycle and reporting dates required by the banking agencies for institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion to $50 billion to assess the potential impact of different scenarios on earnings, losses, liquidity and capital. The Bank conducts stress testing but is not currently subject to these requirements. These requirements will apply if we successfully complete the merger. 

(iii) the implementation of an additional &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; of 0.625% in 2016 for minimum risk-weighted asset ratios under the New Capital Rules. - See &#8220;Capital Adequacy&#8221; and &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; 

(iv) the effectiveness in October, 2015 of the final TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (&#8221;TRID&#8221;) rules promulgated by the CFPB, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, which require new mortgage disclosures and training of staff for most mortgage loan applications. The Bank has fully implemented the TRID requirements. - See &#8220;CFPB&#8221; 

(v) the release by the Interagency Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council (FFIEC) of a cybersecurity assessment tool for voluntary use by banks which provides guidelines to measure a bank&#8217;s individual risk profile&#8221; and &#8220;Cybersecurity maturity.&#8221; The Bank has completed a Cybersecurity Risk Assessment per FFIEC&#8217;s guidance in 2015 and intends to perform this risk assessment at least once annually. 

(vi) the enactment in 2015 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act authorizing the Department of Homeland Security to enhance the coordination and information sharing about cybersecurity threats between banks and government agencies consistent with customers&#8217; rights of privacy; and 

(vii) the adoption of the Fixing America&#8217;s Surface Transportation Act (the &#8220;FAST Act&#8221;), highway legislation which contains financial services provisions, including (a) expanding the extended 18 months examination cycle for banks with up to $1 billion in assets; (b) deleting the annual privacy notice for banks which have not changed their policy or practices of sharing of information with third parties and (c) limiting the percentage payment of dividends on reserve bank stock held by banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The Bank as a nonmember state bank holds no reserve bank stock. 

In the exercise of their supervisory and examination authority, the regulatory agencies have recently emphasized corporate governance, capital planning and stress testing, liquidity management, enterprise risk management and other board responsibilities, anti-money laundering compliance; information technology adequacy; cyber security preparedness; vendor management and fair lending and other consumer compliance obligations. 

Capital Adequacy Requirements 

Bank holding companies and banks are subject to similar regulatory capital requirements administered by their state and federal supervisory banking agencies. The basic capital rule changes in the New Capital Rules adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies were fully effective on January 1, 2015, but many elements are being phased in over multiple years. The risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations (see &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action Provisions&#8221;), require capital ratios that vary based on the perceived degree of risk associated with a banking organization&#8217;s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, such as loans, and those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements. The risk-based capital ratio is determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet financial instruments into weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for those categories perceived as representing greater risks and dividing its qualifying capital by its total risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weighting, and other factors. Bank holding companies 

and banks engaged in significant trading activity may also be subject to the market risk capital guidelines and be required to incorporate additional market and interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. To the extent that the new rules are not fully phased in, the prior capital rules continue to apply. 

The New Capital Rules revised the previous risk-based and leverage capital requirements for banking organizations to meet requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and to implement the international Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Basel III agreements. Many of the requirements in the New Capital Rules and other regulations and rules are applicable only to larger or internationally active institutions and not to all banking organizations, including institutions currently with less than $10 billion of assets, which includes the Company and the Bank. These include required annual stress tests for institutions with $10 billion or more assets with reporting requirements and Enhanced Prudential Standards, both of which will apply to the Company and the Bank following the merger, Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review requirements; capital plan and Resolution Plan or living will submissions, an additional countercyclical capital buffer, a supplementary leverage ratio and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio rule requiring sufficient high-quality liquid assets which may apply to institutions with $50 billion or more or $250 billion or more assets or which may be identified as Global Systematically Important Banking Institutions (G-SIBs). 

&#32;Under the risk-based capital guidelines in place prior to the effectiveness of the New Capital Rules, which trace back to the 1988 Basel I accord, there were three fundamental capital ratios: a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio. To be deemed &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; a bank must have a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least ten percent, six percent and five percent, respectively. Under the prior capital rules there was no Tier 1 leverage requirement for a holding company to be deemed well-capitalized. 

The following are the New Capital Rules applicable to the Company and the Bank beginning January 1, 2015: 

&#8226; 

an increase in the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio from 4.00% to 6.00% of risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

a new category and a required 4.50% of risk-weighted assets ratio is established for &#8220;common equity Tier 1&#8221; as a subset of Tier 1 capital limited to common equity; 

&#8226; 

a minimum non-risk-based leverage ratio is set at 4.00%; 

&#8226; 

changes in the permitted composition of Tier 1 capital to exclude trust preferred securities subject to certain grandfathering exceptions for organizations like the Company which were under $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009, mortgage servicing rights and certain deferred tax assets and to include unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt and equity securities unless the organization opts out of including such unrealized gains and losses. 

&#8226; 

the risk-weights of certain assets for purposes of calculating the risk-based capital ratios are changed for high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans, certain past due non-residential mortgage loans and certain mortgage-backed and other securities exposures; and 

&#8226; 

an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk weighted assets above the regulatory minimum capital ratios, which will be phased in until 2019 beginning at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets for 2016 and must be met to avoid limitations on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. 

Management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company and the Bank would meet all requirements under the New Capital Rules applicable to them on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently in effect. 

Including the capital conservation buffer of 2.5%, the New Capital Rules would result in the following minimum ratios to be considered well capitalized: (i) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, (ii) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. At December 31, 2015, the respective capital ratios of the Company and the Bank exceeded the minimum percentage requirements to be deemed &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; for regulatory purposes. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

While the New Capital Rules set higher regulatory capital standards for the Company and the Bank, bank regulators may also continue their past policies of expecting banks to maintain additional capital beyond the new minimum requirements. The implementation of the New Capital Rules or more stringent requirements to maintain higher levels of capital or to maintain higher levels of liquid assets could adversely impact the Company&#8217;s net income and return on equity, restrict the ability to pay dividends or executive bonuses and require the raising of additional capital. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Prompt Corrective Action Provisions 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (&#8220;FDI Act&#8221;) requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including requiring the prompt submission of an acceptable capital restoration plan. Depending on the bank&#8217;s capital ratios, the agencies&#8217; 

regulations define five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. At each successive lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions, including restrictions on the bank&#8217;s activities, operational practices or the ability to pay dividends or executive bonuses. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment. 

The prompt corrective action standards were also changed as the New Capital Rules ratios became effective. Under the new standards, in order to be considered well-capitalized, the bank will be required to meet the new common equity Tier 1 ratio of 6.5%, an increased Tier 1 ratio of 8% (increased from 6%), an unchanged total capital ratio of 10% and an unchanged leverage ratio of 5%. 

The federal banking agencies also may require banks and bank holding companies subject to enforcement actions to maintain capital ratios in excess of the minimum ratios otherwise required to be deemed well capitalized, in which case institutions may no longer be deemed to be well capitalized and may therefore be subject to certain restrictions such as taking brokered deposits. 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted final rules that implement a part of the Dodd-Frank Act commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Under these rules and subject to certain exceptions, banking entities are restricted from engaging in activities that are considered proprietary trading and from sponsoring or investing in certain entities, including hedge or private equity funds that are considered covered funds. These rules became effective on April 1, 2014, although certain provisions are subject to delayed effectiveness under rules promulgated by the FRB. The Company and the Bank had no investment positions or relationships at December 31, 2015 which were subject to the final rule. Therefore, while these new rules may require us to conduct certain internal analysis and reporting to ensure continued compliance, they did not require any material changes in our operations or business. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and restrictions by Federal and State laws and regulatory agencies, which may affect the cost of doing business, and may limit permissible activities and expansion or impact the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. 

A wide range of requirements and restrictions are contained in both Federal and State banking laws, which together with implementing regulatory authority: 

&#8226; 

Require periodic reports and such additional reports of information as the FRB may require; 

&#8226; 

Require bank holding companies to meet or exceed increased levels of capital (See &#8220;Capital Adequacy Requirements&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to support each subsidiary bank. 

&#8226; 

Limit dividends payable to shareholders and restrict the ability of bank holding companies to obtain dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks. The Company&#8217;s ability to pay dividends on both its common and preferred stock is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Substantially all of the Company&#8217;s funds to pay dividends or to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations are derived from dividends paid by the Bank; 

&#8226; 

Require a bank holding company to terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the FRB believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary; 

&#8226; 

Require the prior approval of senior executive officer or director changes and prohibit golden parachute payments, including change in control agreements, or new employment agreements with such payment terms, which are contingent upon termination if an institution has been deemed to be in &#8220;troubled condition&#8221;; 

&#8226; 

Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require prior approval to purchase or redeem securities in certain situations; 

&#8226; 

Require prior approval for the acquisition of 5% or more of the voting stock of a bank or bank holding company by bank holding companies or other acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial, anti-money-laundering compliance, potential impact on U.S. financial stability or other factors in granting these approvals, in addition to similar California or other state banking agency approvals which may also be required; and 

&#8226; 

Require prior notice and/or prior approval of the acquisition of control of a bank or bank holding company by a shareholder or individuals acting in concert with ownership or control of 10% of the voting stock being a presumption of control. 

Other Restrictions on the Company&#8217;s Activities 

Subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve approval, bank holding companies may generally engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Bank holding companies which elect and retain &#8220;financial holding company&#8221; status pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) may engage in these nonbanking activities and broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature without prior FRB approval. Pursuant to GLBA and Dodd-Frank, in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, a bank holding company and all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be considered well capitalized and well managed, and, except in limited circumstances, depository subsidiaries must be in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;), which requires banks to help meet the credit needs of the communities in which they operate. Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a fixed time period could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company. The Company has not elected financial holding company status and neither the Company nor the Bank has engaged in any activities determined by the FRB to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. 

The Company is also a bank holding company within the meaning of Section 3700 of the California Financial Code. Therefore, the Bank and any of its subsidiaries are subject to examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the DBO. DBO approvals are also required for certain mergers and acquisitions. 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

The Company&#8217;s common stock is publicly held and listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market (&#8220;NASDAQ&#8221;), and the Company is subject to the periodic reporting, information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance and other requirements and restrictions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) promulgated thereunder as well as listing requirements of NASDAQ. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

The Company is subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, requirements for board audit committees and their members, and disclosure of controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. 

Bank Regulation 

As a California commercial bank whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and regular examination by the DBO and by the FDIC, as the Bank&#8217;s primary Federal regulator, and must additionally comply with certain applicable regulations of the FRB. Specific federal and state laws and regulations which are applicable to banks regulate, among other things, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, their activities relating to dividends, investments, loans, the nature and amount of and collateral for certain loans, servicing and foreclosing on loans, borrowings, capital requirements, certain check-clearing activities, branching, and mergers and acquisitions. California banks are also subject to statutes and regulations including FRB Regulation O and Federal Reserve Act Sections 23A and 23B and Regulation W, which restrict or limit loans or extensions of credit to &#8220;insiders&#8221;, including officers, directors, and principal shareholders, and loans or extension of credit by banks to affiliates or purchases of assets from affiliates, including parent bank holding companies, except pursuant to certain exceptions and only on terms and conditions at least as favorable to those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated parties. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded definitions and restrictions on transactions with affiliates and insiders under Sections 23A and 23B and also lending limits for derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions. 

Pursuant to the FDI Act and the California Financial Code, California state chartered commercial banks may generally engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called &#8220;closely related to banking&#8221; or &#8220;nonbanking&#8221; activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries or by subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Further, California banks may conduct certain financial activities permitted under GLBA in a &#8220;financial subsidiary&#8221; to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the bank is and remain s well-capitalized, well-managed and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA. The Bank currently conducts no nonbanking or financial activities through subsidiaries. 

FDIC and DBO Enforcement Authority 

The federal and California regulatory structure gives the bank regulatory agencies extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of appropriate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. The regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before an institution&#8217;s capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset quality; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits. Further, the regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves. If, as a result of an examination, the DBO or the FDIC should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the Bank&#8217;s operations are unsatisfactory or that the Bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, the DBO and the FDIC have residual authority to: 

&#8226; 

Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; 

&#8226; 

Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of higher specific minimum capital ratios, which could preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized and restrict its ability to accept certain brokered deposits; 

&#8226; 

Restrict the Bank&#8217;s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions, including precluding bidding in FDIC receiverships for failed banks; 

&#8226; 

Enter into or issue informal or formal enforcement actions, including required Board resolutions, Matters Requiring Board Attention (MRBA), memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders or prompt corrective action orders to take corrective action and cease unsafe and unsound practices; 

&#8226; 

Require prior approval of senior executive officer or director changes; remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and 

&#8226; 

Terminate FDIC insurance, revoke the charter and/or take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank or appoint the FDIC as receiver. 

Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and savings institutions and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and savings industries. The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act revised the FDIC&#8217;s DIF management authority by setting requirements for the Designated Reserve Ratio (the DIF balance divided by estimated insured deposits) and redefining the assessment base which is used to calculate banks&#8217; quarterly assessments. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each DIF member institution is based on its asset size and its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. The FDIC may terminate a depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank&#8217;s depositors. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the revocation of the bank&#8217;s charter by the DBO. 

We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance, which can be affected by the cost of bank failures to the FDIC among other factors. In October 2015, the FDIC published for comment a proposed rule that would enable the FDIC to reach a 1.35% DIF reserve ratio by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, by imposing a surcharge on the quarterly assessments of depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, which could have potential impact on the Bank&#8217;s deposit insurance assessments in future years. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. 

Dividends 

It is the FRB&#8217;s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the FRB&#8217;s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. The FRB also discourages dividend payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. 

The Bank is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from its holding company. The Company is dependent on the performance of the Bank for funds which may be received as dividends from the Bank for use in the operation of the Company and the ability of the Company to pay dividends to shareholders. Future cash dividends by the Bank will also depend upon 

management&#8217;s assessment of future capital requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. When effective, the new capital rules may restrict dividends by the Bank if the additional capital conservation buffer is not achieved. 

The power of the board of directors of the Bank to declare a cash dividend to BBCN Bancorp is subject to California law, which restricts the amount available for cash dividends to the lesser of a bank&#8217;s retained earnings or net income for its last three fiscal years (less any distributions to shareholders made during such period). Where the above test is not met, cash dividends may still be paid, with the prior approval of the DBO, in an amount not exceeding the greatest of (1) retained earnings of the bank; (2) the net income of the bank for its last fiscal year; or (3) the net income of the bank for its current fiscal year. 

Operations and Consumer Compliance Laws 

The Bank must comply with numerous federal and state anti-money laundering and consumer protection statutes and implementing regulations, including, but not limited to, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the CRA, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the National Flood Insurance Act, the California Homeowner Bill of Rights and various federal and state privacy protection laws, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, CAN-SPAM Act. Noncompliance with any of these laws could subject the Bank to compliance enforcement actions as well as lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements. The Bank and the Company are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition. 

These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure and reporting requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, servicing, collecting and foreclosure of loans, and providing other services. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to enforcement actions, injunctions, fines or criminal penalties, punitive damages to consumers, and the loss of certain contractual rights. 

The Bank received a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating in its most recent 2015 FDIC public CRA performance evaluation, which measures how financial institutions support their communities in the areas of lending, investment and service. 

Dodd-Frank provided for the creation of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;) as an independent entity within the FRB with broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards. The bureau&#8217;s functions include investigating consumer complaints, conducting market research, rulemaking, supervising and examining bank consumer transactions, and enforcing rules related to consumer financial products and services. CFPB regulations and guidance apply to all financial institutions and banks with $10 billion or more in assets are subject to examination by the CFPB. Banks with less than $10 billion in assets, including the Bank, continue to be examined for compliance by their primary federal banking agency. Following the merger, the Bank will be subject to examination by the CFPB. 

In 2014, the CFPB adopted revisions to Regulation Z, which implement the Truth in Lending Act, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, and apply to all consumer mortgages (except home equity lines of credit, timeshare plans, reverse mortgages, or temporary loans). The revisions mandate specific underwriting criteria for home loans in order for creditors to make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer&#8217;s ability to repay and establish certain protections from liability under this requirement for &#8220;qualified mortgages&#8221; meeting certain standards. In general, a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. The Bank primarily makes qualified mortgages and has fully implemented the TRID requirements. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 938 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that its relations with its employees are good. 

