 Item 1. Business 

Company Overview 

We are a full-service, vertically integrated real estate company focused on owning, operating and acquiring high-quality office properties and state-of-the-art media and entertainment properties in select growth markets primarily in Northern and Southern California and the Pacific Northwest. Our investment strategy focuses on high barrier-to-entry, in-fill locations with favorable, long-term supply demand characteristics in select markets, including Los Angeles, Orange County, San Diego, San Francisco, Silicon Valley and Seattle, which we refer to as our target markets. As of December 31, 2015 , our portfolio included office properties, comprising an aggregate of approximately 14.0 million &#32;square feet, and media and entertainment properties, comprising approximately 0.9 million &#32;square feet of sound-stage, office and supporting production facilities. We also own undeveloped density rights for approximately 2.6 million &#32;square feet of future office space. 

We were formed as a Maryland corporation in 2009 to succeed to the business of Hudson Capital, LLC, a Los Angeles-based real estate investment firm founded by Victor J. Coleman, our Chief Executive Officer. On June 29, 2010, we completed our initial public offering. We own our interests in all of our properties and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating partnership, of which we serve as the sole general partner. 

&#160; 

Business and Growth Strategies 

We focus our investment strategy on office properties located in high barrier-to-entry submarkets with growth potential as well as on underperforming properties that provide opportunities to implement a value-add strategy to increase occupancy rates and cash flows. This strategy includes active management, aggressive leasing efforts, focused capital improvement programs, the reduction and containment of operating costs and an emphasis on tenant satisfaction. We believe our senior management team&#8217;s experience in California and Pacific Northwest markets positions us to improve cash flow from our portfolio, as well as any newly acquired properties. 

Our Competitive Position 

We believe the following competitive strengths distinguish us from other real estate owners and operators and will enable us to capitalize on opportunities in the market to successfully expand and operate our portfolio. 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Experienced Management Team with a Proven Track Record of Acquiring and Operating Assets and Managing a Public Office REIT . &#32;Our senior management team has an average of over 25 &#32;years of experience in the commercial real estate industry, with a focus on owning, acquiring, developing, operating, financing and selling office properties in California and the Pacific Northwest. 

&#8226; 

Committed and Incentivized Management Team . &#32;Our senior management team is dedicated to our successful operation and growth, with no competing real estate business interests outside of our company. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015 , our senior management team owned approximately 1.7% &#32;of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, thereby aligning management&#8217;s interests with those of our stockholders. 

&#8226; 

California and Pacific Northwest Focus with Local and Regional Expertise . &#32;We are primarily focused on acquiring and managing office properties in Northern and Southern California and the Pacific Northwest, where our senior management has significant expertise and relationships. Our markets are supply-constrained as a result of the scarcity of available land, high construction costs and restrictive entitlement processes. We believe our experience, in-depth market knowledge and meaningful industry relationships with brokers, tenants, landlords, lenders and other market participants enhance our ability to identify and capitalize on attractive acquisition opportunities, particularly those that arise in California and the Pacific Northwest. 

&#8226; 

Long-Standing Relationships that Provide Access to an Extensive Pipeline of Investment and Leasing Opportunities . &#32;We have an extensive network of long-standing relationships with real estate developers, individual and institutional real estate owners, national and regional lenders, brokers, tenants and other participants in the California and Pacific Northwest real estate markets. These relationships have historically provided us with access to attractive acquisition opportunities, including opportunities with limited or no prior marketing by sellers. We believe they will continue to provide us access to an ongoing pipeline of attractive acquisition opportunities and additional growth capital, both of which may not be available to our competitors. Additionally, we focus on establishing strong 

relationships with our tenants in order to understand their long-term business needs, which we believe enhances our ability to retain quality tenants, facilitates our leasing efforts and maximizes cash flows from our properties. 

&#8226; 

Growth-Oriented, Flexible and Conservative Capital Structure . &#32;We have remained well-capitalized since our initial public offering, including through eight offerings (including two public offerings of 8.375% &#32;Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock, five public offerings of our common stock and one private placement of our common stock) and continuous offering under our at-the-market, or ATM, program for an aggregate total proceeds of approximately $1.32 billion &#32;(before underwriters&#8217; discounts and transaction costs) as of December 31, 2015 . Available cash on hand and our unsecured credit facility provide us with a significant amount of capital to pursue acquisitions and execute our growth strategy, while maintaining a flexible and conservative capital structure. As of December 31, 2015 , we had total borrowing capacity of approximately $400.0 million &#32;under our unsecured revolving credit facility, $230.0 million &#32;of which had been drawn. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $28.14 &#32;on December 31, 2015 , we had a debt-to-market capitalization ratio (counting series A preferred units in our operating partnership, or series A preferred units, as debt) of approximately 35.7% . We believe our access to capital and flexible and conservative capital structure provide us with an advantage over many of our private and public competitors as we look to take advantage of growth opportunities. 

We have access to and are actively pursuing a pipeline of potential acquisitions consistent with our investment strategy. We believe our significant expertise in operating in the California and Pacific Northwest office sector and extensive, long-term relationships with real estate owners, developers and lenders, coupled with our conservative capital structure and access to capital, will allow us to capitalize on current market opportunities. 

On April 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the EOP Northern California Portfolio (the &#8220;EOP Acquisition&#8221;) from certain affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. (collectively, &#8220;Blackstone&#8221;). The EOP Acquisition consisted of 26 &#32;high-quality office assets totaling approximately 8.2 &#32;million square feet and two development parcels located throughout the San Francisco Peninsula, Redwood Shores, Palo Alto, Silicon Valley and North San Jose submarkets. The total consideration paid in connection with the EOP Acquisition, before certain credits, proration and closing costs, included a cash payment of $1.75 &#32;billion and an aggregate of 63,474,791 &#32;shares of common stock and common units. 

Competition 

We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office and commercial real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located and some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In operating and managing our portfolio, we compete for tenants based on a number of factors, including location, rental rates, security, flexibility and expertise to design space to meet prospective tenants&#8217; needs and the manner in which our properties are operated, maintained and marketed. As leases at our properties expire, we may encounter significant competition to renew or re-let space in light of competing properties within the markets in which we operate. As a result, we may be required to provide rent concessions or abatements, incur charges for tenant improvements and other inducements, including early termination rights or below-market renewal options, or we may not be able to timely lease vacant space. In that case, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. 

We also face competition when pursuing acquisition and disposition opportunities. Our competitors may be able to pay higher property acquisition prices, may have private access to acquisition opportunities not available to us and may otherwise be in a better position to acquire a property. Competition may also increase the price required to consummate an acquisition opportunity and generally reduce the demand for commercial office space in our markets. Likewise, competition with sellers of similar properties to locate suitable purchasers may result in us receiving lower proceeds from a sale or in us not being able to dispose of a property at a time of our choosing due to the lack of an acceptable return. 

&#32;For further discussion of the potential impact of competitive conditions on our business, see &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors.&#8221; 

&#160; 

Segment and Geographic Financial Information 

We report our results of operations through two segments: (i) office properties and (ii) media and entertainment properties. As of December 31, 2015 , the office properties reporting segment included 54 &#32;properties totaling approximately 14.0 million &#32;square feet strategically located in many of our target markets, while the media and entertainment reporting segment includes 2 &#32;properties, the Sunset Gower property and the Sunset Bronson property, totaling approximately 0.9 million &#32;square feet located in the heart of Hollywood, California. 

All of our business is conducted in California and the Pacific Northwest. For information about our revenues and long-lived assets and other financial information, see our consolidated financial statements included in this report and &#8220;Item 7: Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Employees 

&#160; 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 234 employees. At December 31, 2015 , two of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Both of these employees are on-site at the Sunset Bronson property. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

Principal Executive Offices 

Our principal executive offices are located at 11601 Wilshire Blvd., Ninth Floor, Los Angeles, California 90025 and our telephone number is (310) 445-5700. We believe that our current facilities are adequate for our present operations. 

Regulation 

General 

Our properties are subject to various covenants, laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. We believe that each of the properties in our portfolio has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business. 

Americans With Disabilities Act 

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, to the extent that such properties are &#8220;public accommodations&#8221; as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We have developed and undertaken continuous capital improvement programs at certain properties in the past. These capital improvement programs will continue to progress and certain ADA upgrades will continue to be integrated into the planned improvements, specifically at the media and entertainment properties where we are able to utilize in-house construction crews to minimize costs for required ADA-related improvements. However, some of our properties may currently be in noncompliance with the ADA. Such noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs to attain compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect. 

Environmental Matters 

Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, waste or petroleum products at, on, in, under, or migrating from such property, including costs to investigate and clean up such contamination and liability for natural resources. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. These liabilities could be substantial and the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines, or other costs could exceed the value of the property and/or our aggregate assets. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability for costs of remediation and/or personal or property damage or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our properties or to borrow using the properties as collateral. In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. 

Some of our properties contain, have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Similarly, some of our properties were used in the past for commercial or industrial purposes, or are currently used for commercial purposes, that involve or involved the use of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or are adjacent to or near properties that have been or are used for similar commercial or industrial purposes. As a result, some of our properties have been or may be impacted by contamination arising from the release of such hazardous substances or petroleum products. Where we have deemed appropriate, we have taken steps to address identified contamination or mitigate risks associated with such 

contamination; however, we are unable to ensure that further actions will not be necessary. As a result of the foregoing, we could potentially incur material liabilities. 

Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I Environmental Site Assessments at all of the properties in our portfolio using the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Practice E 1527-05. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment is a report prepared for real estate holdings that identifies potential or existing environmental contamination liabilities. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations or asbestos or lead surveys. None of the recent site assessments identified any known past or present contamination that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or operations. However, the assessments are limited in scope and may have failed to identify all environmental conditions or concerns. A prior owner or operator of a property or historic operations at our properties may have created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the site assessments. Material environmental conditions may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future, and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. 

Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing building materials, or ACBM, or lead-based paint, or LBP, and may impose fines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third party liability (e.g., liability for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos). Such laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing ACBM and LBP (and employers in such buildings) properly manage and maintain the asbestos and lead, adequately notify or train those who may come into contact with asbestos or lead, and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos or lead would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Some of our properties contain ACBM and/or LBP and we could be liable for such damages, fines or penalties. 

In addition, the properties in our portfolio also are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental and health and safety requirements, such as state and local fire requirements. Moreover, some of our tenants routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and waste as part of their operations at our properties, which are subject to regulation. Such environmental and health and safety laws and regulations could subject us or our tenants to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental liabilities could affect a tenant&#8217;s ability to make rental payments to us. In addition, changes in laws could increase the potential liability for noncompliance. We sometimes require our tenants to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities. But in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of any of our tenants to satisfy such obligations, we may be required to satisfy such obligations. In addition, we may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or waste and irrespective of tenant lease provisions. The costs associated with such liability could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on us. 

When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants or others if property damage or personal injury occurs. We are not presently aware of any material adverse indoor air quality issues at our properties. 

Available Information 

&#160; 

Our internet address is www.hudsonpacificproperties.com . On the Investor Relations page on our Web site, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available to be viewed on our Investor Relations Web page free of charge. Also available on our Investor Relations Web page, free of charge, are our corporate governance guidelines, the charters of the nominating and corporate governance, audit and compensation committees of our board of directors and our code of business conduct and ethics (which applies to all directors and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer). Information contained on or hyperlinked from our Web site is not incorporated by reference into, and should not be considered part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon 

written request to: Investor Relations, Hudson Pacific Properties, Inc., 11601 Wilshire Blvd., Ninth Floor, Los Angeles, California 90025. 

