 ITEM 1. Business. 

Business Overview 

We are a leading global provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (&#8220;SMBs&#8221;) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. 

HP was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the state of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard. Effective in May 1998, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware. 

HP Inc. Separation Transaction 

On November 1, 2015 (the &#8220;Distribution Date&#8221;), we completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (&#8220;Hewlett Packard Enterprise&#8221;), Hewlett-Packard Company&#8217;s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the &#8220;Separation&#8221;). In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. (&#8220;HP&#8221;). 

&#160; 

On the Distribution Date, each of our stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 21, 2015 (the &#8220;Record Date&#8221;) received one share of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock for every one share of our common stock held as of the Record Date. We distributed a total of approximately 1.8 billion shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock to our stockholders. Hewlett Packard Enterprise is an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;HPE&#8221;. After the Separation, we do not beneficially own any shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise common stock. 

&#160; 

In connection with the Separation, we and Hewlett Packard Enterprise have entered into a separation and distribution agreement as well as various other agreements that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties going forward, including among others a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition service agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a master commercial agreement and an information technology service agreement. 

HP Products and Services; Segment Information 

We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. We sell to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. We have three segments for financial reporting purposes: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments. The Personal Systems segment offers Commercial personal computers (&#8220;PCs&#8221;), Consumer PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial tablets and mobility devices, retail point-of-sale (&#8220;POS&#8221;) systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services for the commercial and consumer markets. The Printing segment provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects. 

In each of the past three fiscal years, notebook PCs, printing supplies, printing Commercial Hardware and desktop PCs each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. 

A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 3, &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. A discussion of factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Personal Systems 

Personal Systems provides Commercial PCs, Consumer PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial tablets and mobility devices, retail POS systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support and services for the commercial and consumer markets. We group Commercial notebooks, Commercial desktops, Commercial services, Commercial tablets and mobility devices, Commercial detachables, workstations, retail POS systems and thin clients into Commercial clients and Consumer notebooks, Consumer desktops, Consumer services and Consumer detachables into Consumer clients when describing performance in these markets. Both Commercial and Consumer PCs and Commercial tablets and mobility devices are based predominately on Microsoft Windows operating systems and use processors from Intel Corporation (&#8220;Intel&#8221;) and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (&#8220;AMD&#8221;). Personal Systems also maintains a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategy using the Google Chrome and Android operating systems among others for notebooks and tablets. 

Commercial PCs &#32;are optimized for use by customers including enterprise and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks and hybrids (detachable tablets), the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP ElitePad, HP Pro Tablet PCs and HP Chromebook. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. Additionally, we offer a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMB customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base. 

Consumer PCs are notebooks, desktops and hybrids that are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing and light productivity and include the HP Spectre, HP Envy, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, Omen by HP, hybrids and all-in-one desktops. 

Printing 

Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, media, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial markets. HP groups LaserJet, Graphics and PageWide printers into Commercial Hardware and Consumer and Inkjet printers into Consumer Hardware when describing performance in these markets. Described below are our global business capabilities within Printing. 

LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions &#32;delivers our LaserJet printers, supplies and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises. We go to market through our extensive channel network and directly with HP sales. Ongoing key initiatives include design and deployment of A3 products and solutions for the copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide Enterprise solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence products. 

Inkjet and Printing Solutions delivers our consumer, SMB and PageWide Inkjet solutions (hardware, supplies, media, and web-connected hardware and services). Ongoing initiatives and programs such as Instant Ink and newer initiatives such as Continuous Ink Supply System provide innovative printing solutions to consumers and SMBs. 

Graphics Solutions delivers large format printers (DesignJet, Large Format Production and Scitex Industrial), specialty printing, digital press solutions (Indigo and PageWide Presses), supplies and services to print service providers and design and rendering customers. 

Print Solutions provides end-to-end services, as well as core platforms to develop and deploy services across printing systems. HP&#8217;s focus includes driving customer value through managed print services and providing support solutions for new and existing customers. 

3D Printing &#32;delivers HP&#8217;s Multi-Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solution designed for prototyping and production of functional parts and functioning on an open platform facilitating the development of new 3D printing materials. 

Corporate Investments 

Corporate Investments &#32;includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: 

&#8226; 

retailers that sell our products to the public through their own physical or Internet stores; 

&#8226; 

resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; 

&#8226; 

distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; and 

&#8226; 

system integrators and other advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. 

The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. While each of our key business segments manage the execution of its own go-to-market and distribution strategy, our business segments also collaborate to ensure strategic and process alignment 

where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers and for consumers, we typically manage direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers, while our business segments collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting SMBs where appropriate. 

Manufacturing and Materials 

We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers (&#8220;OMs&#8221;) around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party suppliers produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. In addition to our use of OMs, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. 

We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer&#8217;s particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. 

We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption). For instance, we source laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any non-renewal, or limitation or reduction of the scope of our agreement with Canon could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and do not anticipate non-renewal of this agreement. 

We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various software products; however, we believe that disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide ramifications and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Like other participants in the information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Sustainability also plays a role in the manufacturing and sourcing of materials and components for our products. Some customer segments expect that our products are made in an ethical and sustainable manner, which we strive to ensure through our sustainability programs. We have committed to building an efficient and sustainable supplier network, and we collaborate with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, and to reduce the environmental impact of their operations. These actions, together with our broader sustainability program, help us in our effort to meet customer sustainability requirements and comply with regulations, for example, regarding supplier labor practices and conflict minerals disclosure. For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, we refer you to our annual sustainability report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). 

International 

Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for both consumer and enterprise customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence gives us a solid base on which to build such future growth. 

A summary of our domestic and international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in Note 3, &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 63% of our overall net revenue in fiscal year 2016 came from outside the United States. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to HP&#8217;s international operations, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance,&#8221; in Item 1A, &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk,&#8221; in Item 7A and Note 12, &#8220;Borrowings&#8221; to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Research and Development 

Innovation is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers&#8217; changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers&#8217; experiences. 

HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, is responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. 

Expenditures for research and development were $1.2 billion in fiscal year 2016, $1.2 billion in fiscal year 2015 and $1.3 billion in fiscal year 2014. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Patents 

Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2016, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 18,000 patents. 

Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP&#8217;s business segments. 

In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property (&#8220;IP&#8221;) from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Backlog 

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to our diverse products and services portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. 

Seasonality 

General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Competition 

We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings, and our sustainability performance. 

The markets for each of our key business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. 

We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our key business segments. 

The competitive environment in which each key segment operates is described below: 

Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition. The decline in the PC market has moderated, though the PC market still faces uncertainty. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited, Dell Inc., Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. In particular regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or &#8220;white box&#8221; manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. 

Printing . The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing&#8217;s key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer refill and remanufactured alternatives for HP original inkjet and toner supplies, which are often available for lower prices but generally offer lower print quality and reliability. Other competitors also have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP&#8217;s laser and inkjet products, particularly outside of the United States where IP protection is inadequate or ineffective. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference 

Sustainability 

Our approach to sustainability covers a broad range of sustainability issues across three pillars: environment, society and integrity. We prioritize issues to address based on their relative importance to our business success and sustainable development. 

Environment . We are focused on reinventing the way that products are designed, manufactured, used and recovered as we shift our business model and operations toward a materials and energy-efficient circular economy that promotes greater resource productivity and aims to reduce waste. Working with our supply chain partners, we strive to reduce the environmental impact of our products at every stage of the value chain. 

Society . We strive to empower workers and ensure protections for the people who make our products. Our agreements with our suppliers require that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment. We work to enforce these requirements with suppliers through proactive engagement and training, and corrective action plans when needed. 

Integrity . We are committed to acting with integrity, fairness, and accountability, which we believe are fundamental to an inclusive society and a thriving business. We also expect ethical behavior by our employees, partners and suppliers, and we have structures, programs, and processes in place to safeguard human rights across our value chain. 

Goals . Our current long-term sustainability goals are: 

&#8226; 

Commit to 100% renewable electricity in our global operations with 40% by 2020; 

&#8226; 

Achieve zero deforestation associated with HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging (which is the box that comes with the product and all paper inside the box) by 2020; and 

&#8226; 

Reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of HP&#8217;s product portfolio (which refers to tonnes CO 2 e/net revenue arising from the use of more than 95% of HP product units shipped each year) by 25% by 2020, compared to 2010. 

For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, we refer you to our annual sustainability report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). 

Environment 

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. 

Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Most of our products also are subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, and their safe use. 

We proactively evaluate and at times replace materials in our products and supply chain, taking into account published lists of substances of concern, new and upcoming legal requirements, customer preferences and scientific analysis that indicates a potential impact to human health or the environment. 

We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as &#8220;product take-back legislation&#8221;). We intend for our products to be easily reused and re-cycled, and we provide many of our customers with reuse and recycling programs. 

In the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. 

Our operations, and ultimately our products, are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. We strive to continually improve the energy efficiency of our product portfolio and deliver more cost-effective and less greenhouse gas-intensive technology solutions to our customers. As these and other new laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that HP technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. 

We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with our sustainability policy, our comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. 

A liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when we consider it probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. 

For a discussion of risks attendant to these environmental factors, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations,&#8221; in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, for a discussion of our environmental contingencies see Note 15, &#8220;Litigation and Contingencies&#8221; to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is also incorporated herein by reference. 

Executive Officers 

The following are our current executive officers: 

Ron Coughlin; age 50; President, Personal Systems 

Mr. Coughlin has served as President, Personal Systems since November 2015. Mr. Coughlin joined Hewlett-Packard Company from PepsiCo in June 2007 as the senior vice president of the Imaging and Printing Group Worldwide Strategy and Marketing team. In 2010, Mr. Coughlin transitioned to lead the LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions global business unit at Hewlett-Packard Company and later ran Consumer Personal Systems at Hewlett-Packard Company. 

Jon Flaxman; age 59; Chief Operating Officer 

Mr. Flaxman has served as Chief Operating Officer since November 2015. Previously, Mr. Flaxman served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Hewlett-Packard Company&#8217;s Printing and Personal Systems Group. Prior to such role, he was Senior Vice President of Finance for Hewlett-Packard Company&#8217;s Imaging and Printing Group for four years. From March 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Flaxman was Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President of Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Flaxman joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1981. 

Tracy S. Keogh; age 55; Chief Human Resources Officer 

Ms. Keogh has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Keogh served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Hewlett-Packard Company from April 2011 to November 2015. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, Ms. Keogh served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Hewitt Associates, a provider of human resources consulting services, from May 2007 until March 2011. 

Catherine A. Lesjak; age 57; Chief Financial Officer 

Ms. Lesjak has served as Chief Financial Officer since November 2015. Previously, Ms. Lesjak served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company from 2007 to November 2015. Ms. Lesjak also served as Hewlett-Packard Company&#8217;s interim Chief Executive Officer from August 2010 until November 2010. She also serves as a director of SunPower Corporation. 

Enrique Lores; age 51; President, Printing, Solutions and Services 

Mr. Lores has served as President, Printing, Solutions and Services since November 2015. Throughout his 26-year tenure with Hewlett-Packard Company, Mr. Lores held leadership positions across the organization, most recently leading the Separation Management Office for HP Inc. Previously, Mr. Lores was the Senior Vice President and General Manager for Business Personal Systems. Before his Business Personal Systems role, Mr. Lores was Senior Vice President of Customer Support and Services. 

Marie Myers; age 48; Global Controller and Head of Finance Services 

Ms. Myers has served as Global Controller and Head of Finance Services since November 2015. Prior to that from October 2014 to October 2015, Ms. Myers was in the Separation Management Office at Hewlett-Packard Company and held other key leadership roles at Hewlett-Packard Company, including Vice President for PPS HQ and Finance from May 2012 to October 2015 and Vice President of Finance for PSG Americas from March 2010 to May 2012. 

Kim Rivera; age 48; Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel 

Ms. Rivera has served as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel since November 2015. Prior to joining us, at DaVita Health Care Partners she served as the Chief Legal Officer from July 2011 to October 2015, as Corporate Secretary from January 2010 to December 2013 and as Vice President and General Counsel from January 2010 to July 2011. From February 2006 to November 2009, she served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel at The Clorox Company. Prior to that, Ms. Rivera served as Vice President Law and Chief Litigation Counsel to Rockwell Automation as well as General Counsel for its Automation Controls and Information Group. 

Dion J. Weisler; age 49; President and Chief Executive Officer 

Mr. Weisler has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since November 2015. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President of the Printing and Personal Systems Group of Hewlett-Packard Company from June 2013 to November 2015 and as Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Printing and Personal Systems, Asia Pacific and Japan from January 2012 to June 2013. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, he was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Product and Mobile Internet Digital Home Groups at Lenovo Group Ltd., a technology company, from January 2008 to December 2011. 

Employees 

We had approximately 49,000 employees worldwide as of October 31, 2016. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home, as soon as reasonably practicable after HP electronically files such reports with, or furnishes those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP&#8217;s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors&#8217; committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance, Investment and Technology Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled &#8220;Standards of Business Conduct&#8221; (none of which are incorporated by reference herein) are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: 

HP Inc. 

Attention: Investor Relations 

1501 Page Mill Road, 

Palo Alto, CA 94304 

http://www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest 

Additional Information 

Microsoft&#174; and Windows&#174; are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Intel&#174; is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Google is a registered trademark of Google Inc. Android and Chrome are trademarks of Google Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 

