 Item 1. Business 

Company overview 

We are a leader and an innovator in the high growth category of technology-enabled services platforms that empower consumers to make healthcare saving and spending decisions. Our platform provides an ecosystem where consumers can access their tax-advantaged healthcare savings, compare treatment options and pricing, evaluate and pay healthcare bills, receive personalized benefit and clinical information, earn wellness incentives, and make educated investment choices to grow their tax-advantaged healthcare savings. We can integrate with any health plan or banking institution to be the independent and trusted partner that enables consumers as they seek to manage, save and spend their healthcare dollars. We believe the secular shift to greater consumer responsibility for healthcare costs will require a significant portion of the approximately 184 million under-age 65 consumers with private health insurance in the United States to use a platform such as ours. 

The core of our ecosystem is the health savings account, or HSA, a financial account through which consumers spend and save long term for healthcare on a tax-advantaged basis. We refer to the HSAs for which we serve as custodian as our HSA Members. As of January 31, 2016, we were the integrated HSA platform for 25 of the 50 largest health plans in the country, a number of which are among 31 Blue Cross and Blue Shield health plans in 29 states, and over 33,000 employer clients. Our customers include individuals, employers of all sizes and health plans. We refer to our individual customers as our members, our health plan customers as our Health Plan Partners and our employer customers with more than 1,000 employees as our Employer Partners. Our Health Plan Partners and Employer Partners collectively constitute our Network Partners. Through our existing Network Partners, we have the potential to reach over 72 million consumers, representing approximately 39% of the under-age 65 privately insured population in the United States. As of January 31, 2016, we had over 2.1 million HSAs on our platform, representing over 4.6 million lives. During the years ended January 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we added approximately 751,000, 476,000 and 306,000 new HSA Members, representing approximately 1.7 million, 1.1 million and 700,000 lives, respectively. 

We have developed technology and a differentiated focus on the consumer to facilitate the transition to a more consumer-centric approach to healthcare saving and spending. Our solution is deployed as a cloud-based platform that is accessible to our customers through the Internet and on mobile devices and is hosted on private servers, which allows us to scale on demand. Core to our technology is a configurable framework and open platform that we believe provides us greater functionality and flexibility than generic technologies used by our legacy competitors and requires less investment and time to configure and customize to our customers&#8217; needs. 

We are able to seamlessly integrate third-party applications into our platform, which has afforded us an advantage in an expanding consumer healthcare landscape. A growing number of companies are attempting to integrate into the consumer's daily healthcare spending experience by leveraging our platform. These companies offer functions such as price transparency, benefits enrollment, population health, wellness, analytics, health insurance and investment services, and are looking to reach the consumer at the critical "save" and "spend" moment. In an effort to capitalize on this opportunity, we continue to expand the number of ecosystem partners with whom our platform is integrated. 

Our business model provides strong visibility into our future operating performance. As of the beginning of the past several fiscal years, we had approximately 90% visibility into the revenue of the subsequent fiscal year. We earn monthly service revenue (previously referred to as account fee revenue), primarily through multi-year contracts with our Network Partners, employer clients and individual members. We earn custodial revenue (previously referred to as custodial fee revenue), which is primarily interest earned on our cash assets under management, or AUM, deposited with our FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partners and our insurance company partner. In addition, through our registered investment advisor subsidiary, we earn fees from mutual funds in which our members invest on a self-directed basis, and fees for investment advisory services. We also earn interchange revenue (previously referred to as card fee revenue), which is primarily interchange fees charged to merchants on payments made with our cards via payment networks. Monthly service revenue, custodial revenue, and interchange revenue are recurring in nature, providing strong visibility into our future business. 

Our opportunity 

We believe the shift to healthcare consumerism is now underway. The number of HSAs has grown from 4.9 million in December 2009 to 16.7 million in December 2015 and, according to the 2015 Devenir HSA Research Report, the 

- 2 - 

number of HSAs is expected to reach 30 million by 2018. We believe this HSA growth will be driven, in part, by medical cost inflation and higher income tax rates as consumers seek alternative ways to reduce their healthcare costs and tax expenses. We also believe the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the Affordable Care Act, which requires nearly all legal U.S. residents to obtain health insurance with minimum essential coverage, will drive consumers to high deductible health plans, or HDHPs, that are eligible to be coupled with HSAs, or HSA Plans, thus increasing the number of HSAs. This is because HSA Plans, with their low annual premiums, offer an affordable means of obtaining health insurance coverage required by the Affordable Care Act. 

We are addressing the large and growing U.S. health insurance market. The U.S. under-age 65 private health insurance market consists of approximately 184 million people. The Affordable Care Act has and is widely expected to continue to expand coverage among the approximately 33 million uninsured Americans through its individual and employer mandates, premium subsidies, state health insurance exchanges and ban on withholding coverage due to pre-existing medical conditions. We further see an opportunity to address the 51 million Medicare-eligible Americans and have been involved in industry-wide efforts to expand HSA eligibility to this large and growing population. 

Health insurance is in the midst of major structural change . Despite multiple efforts by employers, health plans and government, health insurance premium increases have exceeded worker-earnings increases and inflation in every year since 1998. In response, employers and health plans are increasingly adopting health insurance plans in which consumers own more financial responsibility through higher deductibles, increasingly utilizing HSA Plans. We believe we enable this disruption of the traditional health insurance model by creating incentivized, engaged and empowered healthcare consumers. 

HSAs and HSA assets are rapidly growing . The total number of HSAs in the U.S. has grown from 4.9 million in 2009 to 16.7 million in 2015. HSA assets, comprised of both cash deposits and investments, have grown from $7.2 billion to $30.2 billion during this timeframe. Fewer than 3% of our HSAs have investments today. However, as the structural shift in health insurance continues, we believe that health savings will become an important part of the consumer&#8217;s financial portfolio and planning, resulting in significant HSA asset growth. 

Patients are becoming engaged consumers. The shift of financial responsibility to consumers drives them to take cost-conscious actions that result in permanent reduction in healthcare-cost trends. We believe that the greatest challenge health plans and employers face with consumer-centric health plans is the complexity these plans create for individual consumers: understanding medical bills; evaluating cost and quality of different treatments and providers; saving and investing for future costs; and addressing tax compliance issues. To navigate this complexity, consumers must integrate relevant data across a fragmented healthcare delivery system, their own benefits information from a health plan and/or employer, and financial data and advice from retail banking and investment services providers. Offering consumers a secure, content-rich environment to make highly personal healthcare saving and spending decisions, one that brings together disparate data and provides data-driven individualized advice, is critical to empowering consumers to manage a greater portion of their healthcare cost responsibility. 

Each HSA becomes a consumer ecosystem rather than a single product. The shift of first-dollar responsibility for healthcare costs inherent in HSA Plans, sometimes called the &#8220;retail effect,&#8221; is giving rise to new consumer-centric solutions such as price transparency, retail clinics, telemedicine and health and wealth financial planning. These solutions are all attempting to benefit from the reality that the consumer increasingly owns more of the healthcare financial burden. While many of these products and services have the potential to reduce costs, they are difficult to implement effectively without accessing the consumer at the critical &#8220;save&#8221; and &#8220;spend&#8221; moment. The HSA platform is a natural hub for these solutions to integrate into the consumer experience because it is the place where consumers execute their healthcare saving and spending decisions and it is the point of integration for disparate patient-level clinical and administrative information. We believe that the ability of technology-enabled HSA platforms such as ours to integrate these disparate solutions into a singular experience for the healthcare consumer has the opportunity to transform the consumer experience and impact the adoption of this growing universe of new consumer-centric healthcare solutions. 

Legacy competitors are not prepared to meet the growing needs of the healthcare consumer. When HSAs came into being over a decade ago, banks and transaction processors took early market share based on their transaction processing skills and commercial banking relationships with health insurers and employers. As the role of HSA platforms expanded to become a critical component of the broader consumer healthcare experience, we believe that these and other firms recognized that solely applying legacy transaction processing capability to HSAs was not sufficient. Many of these legacy competitors have either outsourced their HSA platform or exited the market. Today, insurers and employers are turning to open technology-based firms such as ours that deliver a complete consumer experience by integrating HSAs with other consumer tools. We expect the growing complexity 

- 3 - 

of the healthcare system and the emergence of more consumer-centric healthcare solutions will further increase the need for more complete healthcare-specific platforms such as ours. 

Our competitive strengths 

We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from the transformation of the healthcare benefits market. Our platform is aligned with a new healthcare environment that rewards consumer engagement and fosters an integrated consumer experience. 

Leadership and first-mover advantage. We have established a defensible leadership position in the HSA industry through our first-mover advantage, focus on innovation and differentiated capabilities. Our leadership position is evidenced by the more than doubling of our market share, from 4% in December 2010 to 10% in December 2015, as noted by the 2015 Devenir HSA Research Report. 

Complete solution for managing consumer healthcare saving and spending. Our members utilize our platform in a number of ways and in varying frequencies. For example, our members utilize our platform to evaluate and pay healthcare bills through the member portal, which allows members to pay their healthcare providers, receive reimbursements and learn of savings opportunities for prescription drugs. Members also utilize the platform&#8217;s mobile app to view and pay claims on-the-go, including uploading medical and insurance documentation to the platform with their mobile phone cameras. During the year ended January 31, 2016, our platform experienced 21.9 million logons and, on average, every month 26% of our members signed into our platform. 

Proprietary and integrated technology platform. We have a proprietary cloud-based technology platform, developed and refined during more than a decade of operations, which we believe is highly differentiated in the marketplace for a number of key reasons: 

&#8226; 

Purpose-built technology: Our platform was designed specifically to serve the needs of healthcare consumers, health plans and employers. We believe it provides greater functionality and flexibility than the generic technologies used by our competitors, many of which were originally developed for banking, benefits administration or retirement services. We believe we are one of few providers with a platform that encompasses all of the core functionality of healthcare saving and spending in a single secure and compliant system, including custodial administration of individual savings and investment accounts, card and electronic funds transaction processing, benefits enrollment and eligibility, electronic and paper medical claims processing, medical bill presentment, tax-advantaged reimbursement account and health incentive administration, trust administration, online investment advice and sophisticated analytics. 

&#8226; 

Data integration: Our technology platform allows us to integrate data from disparate sources, which enables us to seamlessly incorporate personal health information, clinical insight and individually tailored strategies into the consumer experience. We currently have more than 1,750 distinct integrations with health plans, pharmacy benefit managers, employers and other benefits provider systems. Many of our partners&#8217; systems rely on custom data models, non-standard formats, complex business rules and security protocols that are difficult or expensive to change. Our proprietary correlation engine currently processes more than 155 million records annually in our partners&#8217; preferred data models and formats, using their preferred security protocols, and without complex data reformatting or expensive middleware translation. 

&#8226; 

Configurability: Our flexible technology platform enables us to create a unique solution for each of our Network Partners. For example, a HealthEquity team member can readily configure more than 240 product attributes, including integration with a partner&#8217;s chosen healthcare price transparency or wellness tools, single sign on, sales and broker support sites, branding, member communication, custom fulfillment and payment card, savings options and interest rates, fees and mutual fund investment choices. We currently have more than 1,090 unique partner configurations of our offerings in use. 

Differentiated consumer experience. We have designed our solutions and support services to deliver a differentiated consumer experience, which is a function of our culture and technology. We believe this provides a significant competitive advantage relative to legacy competitors whom we believe prioritize transaction processing and benefits administration. 

&#8226; 

Culture: We call our culture &#8220;Purple,&#8221; which we define as our commitment to exceeding our customers&#8217; expectations in a truly remarkable way. For example, since 2003, our health saving and spending experts have served our members live 24/7/365. This is because our members&#8217; most important healthcare decisions are often made outside of business hours. 

&#8226; 

Technology: Our technology helps us to deliver on our commitment to being Purple. We tailor the content of our platform and the advice of our experts to be timely, personal and relevant to each member. For 

- 4 - 

example, our technology generates health savings strategies that are delivered to our members when they interact with our platform or call us. We employ individuals, which we refer to as Member Education Specialists, who provide real-time assistance to our members via telephone. 

We believe our Purple culture drives our success. Our commitment to Purple has been rewarded with consumer loyalty scores that far exceed those of most banks and traditional health insurers. 

Large and diversified channel access. We believe our differentiated distribution platform provides a competitive advantage by efficiently enabling us to reach a consumer market that is projected to include 50 million people by 2020. Our platform is built on a business-to-business-to-consumer, or B2B2C, channel strategy, whereby we rely on our Network Partners to reach consumers instead of marketing our services to these potential members directly. Reaching the consumer is critical in order for us to increase the number of our HSA Members because only the individual consumer can open an HSA. Thus, in order for us to increase the number of our HSA Members, we must find effective ways to reach the consumer. 

We work directly with our Network Partners to reach the consumer in various ways. Our Health Plan Partners collectively employ thousands of sales representatives and account managers who promote both the Health Plan Partner&#8217;s health insurance products, such as HSA Plans, and our HSAs. Our Employer Partners collectively employ thousands of human resources professionals who are tasked with explaining the benefits of our HSAs to their employees. Our sales and account management teams work with and train the sales representatives and account management teams and the human resource professionals of our Network Partners on the benefits of enrolling in, contributing to, and saving and spending through our HSAs, and our Network Partners then convey these benefits to prospective members. As a result of this collaboration, we develop relationships with each member who enrolls in an HSA with us. This constitutes our B2B2C channel strategy. 

Scalable operating model. We believe that our technology is highly scalable because our products and services are accessed primarily through our technology platform, which is cloud based. After initial on-boarding and a period of education, our service costs for any given customer typically decline over time. Our opportunity to generate high-margin revenue from existing HSA Members grows over time because our HSA Members&#8217; balances typically grow, increasing custodial revenue at very little incremental cost to us. An account opened in any given fiscal year will have an average cash balance of approximately $800 at the end of that fiscal year, doubling to approximately $1,600 after two more years and nearly tripling to approximately $2,200 after another three years. We believe that this pattern will continue as more of our members add investments to their account balances. As of January 31, 2016, our HSAs with investments had eight times the AUM of those with cash only. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from the scalability of our model, given that as of January 31, 2016, 57% of our HSAs are currently less than two years old. 

Strong customer retention rates . Retention of our HSA Members has been consistent over time. Retention rates for the years ended January 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were 97.4%, 98.3% and 97.7%, respectively. Individually owned trust accounts, including HSAs, have inherently high switching costs, as switching requires a certain amount of effort on the part of the account holder and results in closure fees. We believe that our retention rates are also high due to our technology platform&#8217;s integration with the broader healthcare system used by our HSA members and our focus on the consumer experience. 

Our growth strategy 

Our business model reflects embedded growth from existing HSA Members and Network Partners, operating leverage and highly visible new revenue opportunities, giving us multiple avenues for long-term growth. We believe our B2B2C channel strategy, whereby we leverage our Network Partners to reach consumers, will help us further grow our membership base. 

Penetrate the large membership opportunity within our existing network. We generate recurring service revenue, paid by health plans, employers or individuals, based on the number of our HSA Members. As of January 31, 2016, we estimate that we have less than double digit penetration of our existing Health Plan Partners and Employer Partners with HSAs. Further, the transition of HSAs from banks and other legacy firms which many of our partners worked with prior to choosing HealthEquity helps us accelerate penetration of our existing network. 

Expand our network of Health Plan Partners and Employer Partners. We believe we are well-positioned to expand our network of Health Plan Partners and Employer Partners due to our growing market leadership, consistent innovation, open technology, and focus on the consumer experience. Our recent history is supportive of our ability to do this. In the past fiscal year, we have gone from 70 to 80 Health Plan Partners and 270 to 433 Employer Partners. 

- 5 - 

Increase our yield. The nature of our operating model drives significant incremental profitability from existing HSA Members&#8217; AUM. We define this as increasing our yield. Opportunities to increase our yield include: 

&#8226; 

Rising account balances: We generate recurring custodial revenue based on the value of our AUM. Custodial revenue is primarily comprised of interest earned on cash AUM deposited with our FDIC-insured custodial depository bank partners, deposits in an annuity contract with an insurance partner, and recordkeeping fees we earn from mutual funds in which our members invest on a self-directed basis. Account balances tend to rise over time, increasing custodial revenue with minimal incremental cost to us. The balance of a HealthEquity HSA increases, on average, with age. 

&#8226; 

Rising interest rates: In a rising interest-rate environment, we expect the spread to grow between custodial revenue from interest and the amount we must pay to our members. We believe our members are relatively insensitive to interest rates because HSAs, like checking accounts, have relatively low balances and high transaction rates. 

&#8226; 

Long-term investing: Unlike a 401(k) or IRA, an HSA is &#8220;triple tax free,&#8221; meaning that HSA contributions, earnings, and qualified distributions are all exempt from federal income and employment tax. As these benefits become more widely understood, we believe consumers will use the HSA for long-term investing, increasing account balances and our yield. 

Grow payment volume. As the dollar volume of transactions processed through our platform grows, we generate more revenue with less incremental cost. Each time a member uses our physical or virtual payment cards we earn interchange. Our members incur medical expenses beyond what they charge on our payment cards. Driving these additional charges to our payment cards would increase transaction revenues. 

Demonstrate operating leverage. We expect to drive increasing revenue and profitability from adding accounts through our existing network of Health Plan Partners and Employer Partners and servicing a larger number of mature accounts on our scalable platform. Our business model allows us to inexpensively add HSA Members through our existing Network Partners. As accounts age, the cost to service them declines. 

Capitalize on the new opportunity in health insurance exchanges. We are well-positioned to address the additional opportunity created by both state and private health insurance exchanges. Our solutions are already integrated with partner health plan offerings in several state health exchanges. With regard to private exchanges, our solutions are already integrated with select partner health plans and exchange operators themselves. 

Grow the HSA ecosystem. Our proven ability to innovate, large and growing HSA Member and Network Partner footprint, and high level of member engagement on our open technology platform together create a significant opportunity to expand our HSA ecosystem. We expect more third-party consumer solutions that want to be part of consumers&#8217; daily healthcare decision making to leverage our platform to reach our members at relevant decision points. We also have the opportunity to internally develop solutions and offer these to our customers. 

Selectively pursue strategic acquisitions. We have a successful history of acquiring HSA portfolios and businesses that strengthen our platform and we expect to continue this growth strategy and are regularly engaged in evaluating opportunities. During the year ended January 31, 2016, we acquired the HSA portfolios of The Bancorp Bank, or Bancorp, and M&#38;T Bank, or M&#38;T. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for shareholders. We believe the nature of our competitive landscape provides significant acquisition opportunities. Many of our competitors view their HSA businesses as non-core functions. We believe they may look to divest these assets and, in certain cases, be limited from making acquisitions due to depository capital requirements. 

Our products and services 

Healthcare saving and spending platform. We offer a cloud-based platform, accessed by our members online via a desktop or mobile device, through which individuals can make health saving and spending decisions, pay healthcare bills, compare treatment options and prices, receive personalized benefit and clinical information, earn wellness incentives, grow their savings and make investment choices. The platform provides users with access to services we provide as well as services provided by third parties selected by us or by our Network Partners. 

Among other features, the platform includes the capability to present to users medical bills upon adjudication by a health plan, including details such as the amount paid by insurance, specific nature of the medical service provided, and diagnostic code. Users of the platform can pay these bills from an account of ours or from any bank account, online, via a mobile device, or using our payment card. All users of the platform gain access to our healthcare consumer specialists, available every hour of every day, via a toll-free telephone number or email. Our specialists can assist users with such tasks as contacting a medical provider to dispute a bill, negotiating a payment schedule, 

- 6 - 

optimizing the use of tax-advantaged accounts to reduce medical spending or selecting from among medical plans offered by an employer or health plan. 

Health savings accounts. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 created HSAs, which became available on January 1, 2004. An HSA is a tax-exempt trust or custodial account managed by a trustee that is a bank, an insurance company, or a non-bank custodian specifically authorized by the U.S. Department of the Treasury as meeting certain ownership, capitalization, expertise and governance requirements. We are an Internal Revenue Services, or IRS, approved non-bank custodian of our members' HSAs. 

To be eligible to contribute to an HSA, an individual must be covered under a HDHP, have no additional health coverage, not be enrolled in Medicare, and not be claimed as a dependent on someone else&#8217;s tax return. HSAs have several tax-advantaged benefits, which we call the "triple tax savings": (1) individuals can claim a tax deduction for contributions they, or someone other than their employer, make to their HSAs; contributions to their HSAs made by their employer may be excluded from their gross income for purposes of federal and most state income and employment tax; (2) the interest or earnings on the assets in the account, including reinvestment, are tax free; and (3) distributions may be tax free if they pay qualified medical expenses. There is no requirement to provide receipts to us to substantiate HSA distributions to members, whether made through our payment card or directly from our online platform. Additionally, distributions other than for qualified medical expenses are permitted penalty-free after age 65. Balances remain in the account until used, i.e. , there is no &#8220;use or lose&#8221; requirement. An HSA is owned by the account holder; it remains the account holder&#8217;s property upon a change of employment, health plan or retirement. 

Investment advisory services. We offer an online-only automated investment advisory service to all of our members whose account balances exceed a stated threshold. This service is entirely elective to the member. The advisory service is delivered through a web-based tool, HealthEquity Advisor, which is offered and managed by HealthEquity Advisors, LLC, our SEC-registered investment adviser subsidiary. HealthEquity Advisors, LLC provides investment advice to its clients exclusively through the HealthEquity Advisor tool on an interactive website. Members who subscribe for HealthEquity Advisor pay asset-based fees, which include the cost of the advisory service and all trading commissions and other expenses associated with transactions made through the online tool. 

HealthEquity Advisor provides guidance and management, including how much cash (liquidity) to maintain in an HSA and how to diversify optimally among the mutual funds and other investment vehicles offered on the HealthEquity platform. Advice reflects the personal risk preferences of the individual member. 

We offer three levels of service to investors: 

&#8226; 

Self-driven: &#32;For members who do not subscribe for HealthEquity Advisor we provide a mutual fund investment platform to invest HSA balances. Neither we nor HealthEquity Advisor provides advice to members in respect of platform investments; 

&#8226; 

GPS: &#32;HealthEquity Advisor provides guidance and advice, but the member makes the final investment decisions and implements portfolio allocation and investment advice through the HealthEquity platform; and 

&#8226; 

Auto-pilot: &#32;HealthEquity Advisor manages the account and implements portfolio allocation and investment advice automatically for the member. 

Regardless of the level of service selected, members are responsible for their proportionate share of fees and expenses payable by the underlying mutual funds and other investment vehicles in which they invest. 

Reimbursement arrangements. Reimbursement arrangements, or RAs, include health reimbursement arrangements, or HRAs, and flexible spending arrangements, or FSAs. An HRA may be administered by any third-party administration, or TPA, firm. Most HSA trustees are not TPAs, and most TPAs are not HSA trustees. We are among only a few firms that are able to administer HSAs and HRAs on the same technology platform. 

RAs are employee benefits wherein an employer provides a fixed dollar amount of reimbursement for qualified medical or dependent care expenses. Payments must be substantiated with electronic claims from a health plan, data gleaned from operation of our payment card where permitted, or submission of receipts or other documentation by the employee. RAs have the tax benefit that, like HSAs, their value may be excluded from employees&#8217; gross income for federal and most state income and employment tax purposes. RAs are not portable; any remaining value is lost upon termination of employment, but are subject to COBRA requirements. An HRA must be paid for entirely by the employer with no salary reduction, is typically integrated with a major medical plan, and typically allows unused benefits to be rolled over from year to year. An FSA is typically paid for entirely through salary reduction from the employee, is typically a stand-alone, voluntary offering, and is subject to &#8220;use or lose&#8221; restrictions limiting to $500 the amount that may be rolled over from year to year. We had approximately 414,000 RAs as of January 31, 2016. 

- 7 - 

Healthcare incentives. We enable our Employer Partners and Health Plan Partners to easily offer, and our members to earn, financial incentives for participation in wellness programs. Our technology platform includes a financial incentives framework and integration with several wellness providers used by our Network Partners. Once earned, incentives may be deposited directly into an HSA, RA or cash account, with Network Partner-specific messaging to make clear to the member the source of funds. Our platform routes incentives to the right type of account to maintain tax compliance, for example, by creating and routing funds to an RA where an HSA Member is ineligible to receive HSA contributions due to disqualifying coverage. 

Our technology 

Our proprietary technology is deployed as a cloud-based solution that is accessible to customers through the web and mobile devices. We utilize a multi-tenant architecture that allows changes made for one Network Partner to be extensible to all others. This architecture provides operating leverage by reducing costs and improving efficiencies by enabling us to maximize the utilization of our infrastructure capacity and reduction in required maintenance. 

Our solution is hosted on a virtual private cloud with an ability to scale on demand. This allows us to quickly support our current and projected growth. We utilize two redundant third-party data centers to ensure continuous access and data availability. The data centers are purpose-built facilities for hosting mission critical systems with multiple built-in redundancy layers to minimize service disruptions and meet industry-standard measures. 

Due to the sensitive nature of our customers&#8217; data, we have a heightened focus on data security and protection. We have implemented industry-standard processes, policies and tools through all levels of our software development and network administration, reducing the risk of vulnerabilities in our system. 

Our competitive landscape 

We view our competition in terms of direct and indirect competitors. Our direct competitors are HSA custodians that include state or federally chartered banks, insurance companies and non-bank trustees approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury as meeting certain ownership, capitalization, expertise and governance requirements. This market is very fragmented. As of January 31, 2016, we estimate that we have a market share of approximately 10%, and that we are among the five largest HSA custodians by market share. Our indirect competitors are benefits administration technology and service providers that work with other HSA custodians to sell into health plans and/or employer channels. 

We believe that the primary competitive factors in the market for technology platforms that empower healthcare consumers are: integration with the broader healthcare system; level of consumer education and support; breadth of product offering; flexibility of technology to meet partner requirements; brand strength and reputation; and price. We believe that many of our large bank competitors may view their healthcare businesses as non-core and have historically under-invested in developing these businesses. Many of our competitors have not incorporated personal health information into their offerings, as this would require significant upfront investment in technology, training, and segregation of business operations from other bank or custodial operations, as well as integration with data sources such as health plans and pharmacy benefits managers. Potential competitors within the technology or benefits administration service provider sector are limited from entering the space due to regulatory requirements for capital adequacy and demonstrated expertise in custodial operations. However, we experience significant competition and the intensity of competition may increase over time. 

Government regulation 

Our business is subject to extensive, complex and rapidly changing federal and state laws and regulations. 

IRS regulations 

We are subject to applicable Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regulations, which lay the foundation for tax savings and eligible expenses under the HSAs, HRAs and FSAs we administer. The IRS issues guidance regarding these regulations regularly. 

HIPAA, privacy and data security regulations 

In connection with processing data on behalf of our members, we frequently undertake or are subject to specific compliance obligations under privacy and data security-related laws, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and similar state laws governing the collection, use, protection and disclosure of nonpublic personally identifiable information. 

HIPAA and its implementing regulations, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and 

- 8 - 

transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH, through its implementing regulations, makes certain of HIPAA&#8217;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to &#8220;business associates,&#8221; including HealthEquity. We are also contractually subject to various provisions of HIPAA and the HITECH Act via agreements we have entered into with our customers, or Business Associate Agreements. There are both civil and criminal penalties for violating HIPAA, which may be enforced by both the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services&#8217; Office for Civil Rights and state attorneys general. Violations of HIPAA may also subject us to contractual ramifications including but not limiting to termination of the applicable Business Associate Agreement. We have developed policies and procedures, trained our team members, and entered into agreements with our clients as appropriate to comply with HIPAA. 

We are also subject to various laws, rules and regulations related to privacy, information security and data protection promulgated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act guidelines require, among other things, that we develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. 

In addition to federal data privacy and security laws and regulations, there are a number of state laws governing confidentiality and security of personally identifiable information that are applicable to our business. We have taken steps to comply with personally identifiable information security requirements to which we are aware that we are subject. 

ERISA 

Our private-sector clients&#8217; FSAs and HRAs are covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, which governs the structure of &#8220;employee benefits plans.&#8221; ERISA does not generally apply to HSAs. ERISA generally imposes extensive reporting requirements on employers in respect of FSAs and HRAs, as well as an obligation to provide detailed disclosure to covered individuals, which includes both employees and beneficiaries. The Department of Labor can bring enforcement actions or assess penalties against employers for failing to comply with ERISA&#8217;s requirements. Participants may also file lawsuits against employers under ERISA. 

Department of Labor 

The Department of Labor, or the DOL, is responsible for issuing guidance under any component plans that are subject to ERISA, including health FSAs and HRAs. 

The DOL issues regulations, technical releases and other pieces of guidance that apply to employee benefit plans generally. In addition, in response to a request by an individual or an organization, the DOL&#8217;s Employee Benefits Security Administration may issue an advisory opinion that interprets and applies ERISA to a specific situation, including issues related to consumer-centric healthcare accounts. 

Healthcare reform 

In March 2010, the federal government enacted significant reforms to healthcare legislation through the Affordable Care Act and the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. These laws amended various provisions in many federal laws, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and ERISA. These amendments include numerous coverage changes affecting group health plans, which now apply to insurers and governmental plans, as well as employer-sponsored health plans, including self-insured plans such as HRAs and health FSAs. 

Investment Advisers Act of 1940 

Our subsidiary HealthEquity Advisors, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that provides web-only automated investment advisory services to members. As an SEC-registered adviser, it must comply with the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Advisers Act, and related Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations and is subject to periodic inspections by the SEC staff. Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between the adviser and its clients, and general anti-fraud prohibitions. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser&#8217;s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the Advisers Act or other federal and state securities and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, profit disgorgement, fines or other similar consequences. 

- 9 - 

Intellectual property 

Intellectual property is important to our success. We have registered our trademark &#8220;HealthEquity&#8221; with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and maintain trademark rights to the mark &#8220;Building Health Savings.&#8221; 

We also rely on other forms of intellectual property rights and measures, including trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary processes, and nondisclosure agreements, to maintain and protect proprietary aspects of our products and technologies. We require our team members and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our team members and consultants to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the term of their employment or engagement while using our property or which relate to our business. 

Geographic areas 

Our sole geographic market is the U.S. 

Employees 

We refer to our employees as our team members. As of January 31, 2016, we had 636 team members, including 452 in service delivery, 101 in technology and development and 83 in sales, general and administrative. We consider our relationship with our team members to be good. None of our team members are represented by a labor union or party to a collective bargaining agreement. 

Corporate information 

HealthEquity, Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on September 18, 2002. Our principal business office is located at 15 W. Scenic Pointe Dr., Ste. 100, Draper, Utah 84020. Our website address is www.healthequity.com. We do not incorporate the information contained on, or accessible through, our corporate website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider it to be part of this report. 

Where you can find additional information 

Our website is located at www.healthequity.com, and our investor relations website is located at ir.healthequity.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

- 10 - 

