 Item 1. 

Business 

GENERAL 

We are a specialty finance company focused on providing senior secured venture growth loans to high-growth, innovative venture capital-backed companies in a broadly diversified variety of technology, life sciences and sustainable and renewable technology industries. We source our investments through our principal office located in Palo Alto, CA, as well as through our additional offices in Boston, MA, New York, NY, McLean, VA, Santa Monica, CA and Hartford, CT.

Our goal is to be the leading structured debt financing provider for venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries requiring sophisticated and customized financing solutions. Our strategy is to evaluate and invest in a broad range of technology-related industries including technology, drug discovery and development, biotechnology, life sciences, healthcare, and sustainable and renewable technology and to offer a full suite of growth capital products. We focus our investments in companies active in the technology industry sub-sectors characterized by products or services that require advanced technologies, including, but not limited to, computer software and hardware, networking systems, semiconductors, semiconductor capital equipment, information technology infrastructure or services, internet consumer and business services, telecommunications, telecommunications equipment, renewable or alternative energy, media and life sciences. Within the life sciences sub-sector, we generally focus on medical devices, bio-pharmaceutical, drug discovery, drug delivery, health care services and information systems companies. Within the sustainable and renewable technology sub-sector, we focus on sustainable and renewable energy technologies and energy efficiency and monitoring technologies. We refer to all of these companies as "technology-related" companies and intend, under normal circumstances, to invest at least 80% of the value of our assets in such businesses.

We invest primarily in structured debt with warrants and, to a lesser extent, in senior debt and equity investments. We invest primarily in private companies but also have investments in public companies. We use the term "structured debt with warrants" to refer to any debt investment, such as a senior or subordinated secured loan, that is coupled with an equity component, including warrants, options or other rights to purchase common or preferred stock. Our structured debt with warrants investments typically are secured by some or all of the assets of the portfolio company. 

Our investment objective is to maximize our portfolio total return by generating current income from our debt investments and capital appreciation from our warrant and equity-related investments. Our primary business objectives are to increase our net income, net operating income and net asset value by investing in structured debt with warrants and equity of venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries with attractive current yields and the potential for equity appreciation and realized gains. Our equity ownership in our portfolio companies may exceed 25% of the voting securities of such companies, which represents a controlling interest under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act . In some cases, we receive the right to make additional equity investments in our portfolio companies in connection with future equity financing rounds. Capital that we provide directly to venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries is generally used for growth and general working capital purposes as well as in select cases for acquisitions or recapitalizations. 

We also make investments in qualifying small businesses through our two wholly-owned small business investment companies, or SBICs. Our SBIC subsidiaries, Hercules Technology II, L.P., or HT II, and Hercules Technology III, L.P., or HT III, hold approximately $128.3 million and $310.8 million in assets, respectively, and accounted for approximately 7.6% and 18.5% of our total assets, respectively, prior to consolidation at December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the maximum statutory limit on the dollar amount of combined outstanding Small Business Administration, or SBA, guaranteed debentures is $350.0 million, subject to periodic adjustments by the SBA. At December 31, 2015, we have issued $190.2 million in SBA-guaranteed debentures in our SBIC subsidiaries. See "— Regulation—Small Business Administration Regulations" for additional information regarding our SBIC subsidiaries. 

We regularly engage in discussions with third parties with respect to various potential transactions. We may acquire an investment or a portfolio of investments or an entire company or sell a portion of our portfolio on an opportunistic basis. We, ou r subsidiaries or our affiliates may also agree to manage certain other funds that invest in debt, equity or provide other financing or services to companies in a variety of industries for which we may earn management or other fees for our services. We may also invest in the equity of these funds, along with other third parties, from which we would seek to earn a return and/or future incentive allocations. Some of these transactions could be material to our business. Consummation of any such transaction wil l typically be subject to completion of due diligence, finalization of key business and financial terms (including price) and negotiation of final definitive documentation as well as a number of other factors and conditions including, without limitation, t he approval of our board of directors and required regulatory or third party consents and, in certain cases, the approval of our stockholders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any such transaction would be consummated. Any of these transactions or funds may require significant management resources either during the transaction phase or on an ongoing basis depending on the terms of the transaction. 

CORPORATE HISTORY AND OFFICES 

We are a Maryland corporation formed in December 2003 that began investment operations in September 2004. On February 25, 2016, we changed our name from "Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc." to "Hercules Capital, Inc." We are an internally managed, non-diversified closed-end investment company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under the 1940 Act. As a business development company, we are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements. For instance, we generally have to invest at least 70% of our total assets in "qualifying assets," including securities of private U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. A business development company also must meet a coverage ratio of total net assets to total senior securities, which include all of our borrowings (including accrued interest payable) except for debentures issued by the SBA and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200% subsequent to each borrowing or issuance of senior securities. See "—Regulation as a Business Development Company—."

Our portfolio is comprised of, and we anticipate that our portfolio will continue to be comprised of, investments primarily in technology-related companies at various stages of their development. Consistent with regulatory requirements, we invest primarily in United States based companies and, to a lesser extent, in foreign companies. 

Effective January 1, 2006, we elected to be treated for tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Pursuant to this election, we generally will not have to pay corporate-level taxes on any income that we distribute to our stockholders. However, our qualification and election to be treated as a RIC requires that we comply with provisions contained in the Code. For example, as a RIC we must receive 90% or more of our income from qualified earnings, typically referred to as "good income," as well as satisfy asset diversification and income distribution requirements. As an investment company, we follow accounting and reporting guidance as set forth in Topic 946 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s ("FASB’s") Accounting Standards Codification, as amended ("ASC").

Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Hamilton Avenue, Suite 310, Palo Alto, California 94301, and our telephone number is (650) 289-3060. We also have offices in Boston, MA, New York, NY, McLean, VA, Santa Monica, CA, and Hartford, CT. We maintain a website on the Internet at www.htgc.com . We make available, free of charge, on our website our proxy statement, annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider that information to be part of this Annual Report. 

We file annual, quarterly and current periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. This information is available at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the operation of the SEC’s public reference room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website, at www.sec.gov , that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, who file documents electronically with the SEC. 

OUR MARKET OPPORTUNITY 

We believe that technology-related companies compete in one of the largest and most rapidly growing sectors of the U.S. economy and that continued growth is supported by ongoing innovation and performance improvements in technology products as well as the adoption of technology across virtually all industries in response to competitive pressures. We believe that an attractive market opportunity exists for a specialty finance company focused primarily on investments in structured debt with warrants in technology- related companies for the following reasons:

- 

technology-related companies have generally been underserved by traditional lending sources; 

- 

unfulfilled demand exists for structured debt financing to technology-related companies due to the complexity of evaluating risk in these investments; and 

- 

structured debt with warrants products are less dilutive and complement equity financing from venture capital and private equity funds. 

Technology-Related Companies are Underserved by Traditional Lenders. We believe many viable technology-related companies backed by financial sponsors have been unable to obtain sufficient growth financing from traditional lenders, including financial services companies such as commercial banks and finance companies because traditional lenders have continued to consolidate and have adopted a more risk-averse approach to lending. More importantly, we believe traditional lenders are typically unable to underwrite the risk associated with these companies effectively. 

The unique cash flow characteristics of many technology-related companies typically include significant research and development expenditures and high projected revenue growth thus often making such companies difficult to evaluate from a credit perspective. In addition, the balance sheets of these companies often include a disproportionately large amount of intellectual property assets, which can be difficult to value. Finally, the speed of innovation in technology and rapid shifts in consumer demand and market share add to the difficulty in evaluating technology-related companies. 

Due to the difficulties described above, we believe traditional lenders generally refrain from entering the structured debt financing marketplace, instead preferring the risk-reward profile of asset based lending. Traditional lenders generally do not have flexible product offerings that meet the needs of technology-related companies. The financing products offered by traditional lenders typically impose on borrowers many restrictive covenants and conditions, including limiting cash outflows and requiring a significant depository relationship to facilitate rapid liquidation. 

Unfulfilled Demand for Structured Debt Financing to Technology-Related Companies. Private debt capital in the form of structured debt financing from specialty finance companies continues to be an important source of funding for technology-related companies. We believe that the level of demand for structured debt financing is a function of the level of annual venture equity investment activity. 

We believe that demand for structured debt financing is currently underserved. The venture capital market for the technology-related companies in which we invest has been active. Therefore, to the extent we have capital available, we believe this is an opportune time to be active in the structured lending market for technology-related companies. 

Structured Debt with Warrants Products Complement Equity Financing From Venture Capital and Private Equity Funds. We believe that technology-related companies and their financial sponsors will continue to view structured debt securities as an attractive source of capital because it augments the capital provided by venture capital and private equity funds. We believe that our structured debt with warrants product provides access to growth capital that otherwise may only be available through incremental investments by existing equity investors. As such, we provide portfolio companies and their financial sponsors with an opportunity to diversify their capital sources. Generally, we believe many technology-related companies at all stages of development target a portion of their capital to be debt in an attempt to achieve a higher valuation through internal growth. In addition, because financial sponsor-backed companies have reached a more mature stage prior to reaching a liquidity event, we believe our investments could provide the debt capital needed to grow or recapitalize during the extended period sometimes required prior to liquidity events. 

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 

Our strategy to achieve our investment objective includes the following key elements: 

Leverage the Experience and Industry Relationships of Our Management Team and Investment Professionals . We have assembled a team of experienced investment professionals with extensive experience as venture capitalists, commercial lenders, and originators of structured debt and equity investments in technology-related companies. Our investment professionals have, on average, more than 15 years of experience as equity investors in, and/or lenders to, technology-related companies. In addition, our team members have originated structured debt, debt with warrants and equity investments in over 335 technology-related companies, representing over $5.7 billion in commitments from inception to December 31, 2015, and have developed a network of industry contacts with investors and other participants within the venture capital and private equity communities. In addition, members of our management team also have operational, research and development and finance experience with technology-related companies. We have established contacts with leading venture capital and private equity fund sponsors, public and private companies, research institutions and other industry participants, which we believe will enable us to identify and attract well-positioned prospective portfolio companies. 

We concentrate our investing activities generally in industries in which our investment professionals have investment experience. We believe that our focus on financing technology-related companies will enable us to leverage our expertise in structuring prospective investments, to assess the value of both tangible and intangible assets, to evaluate the business prospects and operating characteristics of technology-related companies and to identify and originate potentially attractive investments with these types of companies. 

Mitigate Risk of Principal Loss and Build a Portfolio of Equity-Related Securities. We expect that our investments have the potential to produce attractive risk-adjusted returns through current income, in the form of interest and fee income, as well as capital appreciation from warrant and equity-related securities. We believe that we can mitigate the risk of loss on our debt investments through the combination of loan principal amortization, cash interest payments, relatively short maturities, security interests in the assets of our portfolio companies, and on select investment covenants requiring prospective portfolio companies to have certain amounts of available cash at the time of our investment and the continued support from a venture capital or private equity firm at the time we make our investment. 

Historically our structured debt investments to technology-related companies typically include warrants or other equity interests, giving us the potential to realize equity-like returns on a portion of our investment. In addition, in some cases, we receive the right to make additional equity investments in our portfolio companies, including the right to convert some portion of our debt into equity, in connection with future equity financing rounds. We believe these equity interests will create the potential for meaningful long-term capital gains in connection with the future liquidity events of these technology-related companies. 

Provide Customized Financing Complementary to Financial Sponsors’ Capital. We offer a broad range of investment structures and possess expertise and experience to effectively structure and price investments in technology-related companies. Unlike many of our competitors that only invest in companies that fit a specific set of investment parameters, we have the flexibility to structure our investments to suit the particular needs of our portfolio companies. We offer customized financing solutions ranging from senior debt to equity capital, with a focus on structured debt with warrants. 

We use our relationships in the financial sponsor community to originate investment opportunities. Because venture capital and private equity funds typically invest solely in the equity securities of their portfolio companies, we believe that our debt investments will be viewed as an attractive and complimentary source of capital, both by the portfolio company and by the portfolio company’s financial sponsor. In addition, we believe that many venture capital and private equity fund sponsors encourage their portfolio companies to use debt financing for a portion of their capital needs as a means of potentially enhancing equity returns, minimizing equity dilution and increasing valuations prior to a subsequent equity financing round or a liquidity event. 

Invest at Various Stages of Development. We provide growth capital to technology-related companies at all stages of development, including select publicly listed companies and select special opportunity lower middle market companies that require additional capital to fund acquisitions, recapitalizations and refinancings and established-stage companies. We believe that this provides us with a broader range of potential investment opportunities than those available to many of our competitors, who generally focus their investments on a particular stage in a company’s development. Because of the flexible structure of our investments and the extensive experience of our investment professionals, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of these investment opportunities at all stages of prospective portfolio companies’ development. 

Benefit from Our Efficient Organizational Structure. We believe that the perpetual nature of our corporate structure enables us to be a long-term partner for our portfolio compani es in contrast to traditional investment funds, which typically have a limited life. In addition, because of our access to the equity markets, we believe that we may benefit from a lower cost of capital than that available to private investment funds. We a re not subject to requirements to return invested capital to investors nor do we have a finite investment horizon. Capital providers that are subject to such limitations are often required to seek a liquidity event more quickly than they otherwise might, w hich can result in a lower overall return on an investment. 

Deal Sourcing Through Our Proprietary Database. We have developed a proprietary and comprehensive structured query language-based ("SQL") database system to track various aspects of our investment process including sourcing, originations, transaction monitoring and post-investment performance. As of December 31, 2015, our proprietary SQL-based database system included approximately 45,000 technology-related companies and approximately 9,200 venture capital firms, private equity sponsors/investors, as well as various other industry contacts. This proprietary SQL system allows us to maintain, cultivate and grow our industry relationships while providing us with comprehensive details on companies in the technology-related industries and their financial sponsors. 

OUR INVESTMENTS AND OPERATIONS 

We principally invest in debt securities and, to a lesser extent, equity securities, with a particular emphasis on structured debt with warrants. 

We generally seek to invest in companies that have been operating for at least six to 12 months prior to the date of our investment. We anticipate that such entities may, at the time of investment, be generating revenues or will have a business plan that anticipates generation of revenues within 24 to 48 months. Further, we anticipate that on the date of our investment we will generally obtain a lien on available assets, which may or may not include intellectual property, and these companies will have sufficient cash on their balance sheet to operate as well as potentially amortize their debt for at least three to nine months following our investment. We generally require that a prospective portfolio company, in addition to having sufficient capital to support leverage, demonstrate an operating plan capable of generating cash flows or raising the additional capital necessary to cover its operating expenses and service its debt, for an additional six to twelve months subject to market conditions. 

We expect that our investments will generally range from $12.0 million to $25.0 million, although we may make investments in amounts above or below this range. We typically structure our debt securities to provide for amortization of principal over the life of the loan, but may include a period of interest-only payments. Our loans will typically be collateralized by a security interest in the borrower’s assets, although we may not have the first claim on these assets and the assets may not include intellectual property. Our debt investments carry fixed or variable contractual interest rates which generally ranged from the prevailing U.S. prime rate, or Prime, or the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, to approximately 13.0% as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 93.7% of our loans were at floating rates or floating rates with a floor and 6.3% of the loans were at fixed rates. 

In addition to the cash yields received on our loans, in some instances, our loans generally include one or more of the following: end-of-term payments, exit fees, balloon payment fees, commitment fees, success fees or prepayment fees. In some cases our loans also include contractual payment-in-kind ("PIK") interest arrangements. The increases in loan balances as a result of contractual PIK arrangements are included in income for the period in which such PIK interest was accrued, which is often in advance of receiving cash payment, and are separately identified on our statements of cash flows. We also may be required to include in income for tax purposes certain other amounts prior to receiving the related cash. 

In addition, the majority of our investments in the structured debt of venture capital-backed companies generally have equity enhancement features, typically in the form of warrants or other equity-related securities that are considered original issue discounts ("OID") to our loans and are designed to provide us with an opportunity for potential capital appreciation. The warrants typically will be immediately exercisable upon issuance and generally will remain exercisable for the lesser of five to ten years or three to five years after completion of an initial public offering. The exercise prices for the warrants varies from nominal exercise prices to exercise prices that are at or above the current fair market value of the equity for which we receive warrants. We may structure warrants to provide minority rights provisions or on a very select basis put rights upon the occurrence of certain events. We generally target a total annualized return (including interest, fees and value of warrants) of 12% to 25% for our debt investments. 

Typically, our structured debt and equity investments take one of the following forms: 

- 

Structured Debt with Warrants. We seek to invest a majority of our assets in structured debt with warrants of prospective portfolio companies. Our investments in structured debt with warrants may be the only debt capital on the balance sheet of our portfolio companies, and in many cases we have a first priority security interest in all of our portfolio company’s assets, or in certain investments we may have a negative pledge on intellectual property. Our structured debt with warrants typically has a maturity of between two and seven years, and they may provide for full amortization after an interest only period. Our structured debt with warrants generally carries a contractual interest rate between Prime or LIBOR and approximately 13.0% and may include an additional end-of-term payment or contractual PIK interest arrangements. We may structure our structured debt with warrants with restrictive affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, prepayment penalties, lien protection, equity calls, change-in-control provisions or board observation rights. 

- 

Senior Debt. We seek to invest a limited portion of our assets in senior debt. Senior debt may be collateralized by accounts receivable and/or inventory financing of prospective portfolio companies. Senior debt has a senior position with respect to a borrower’s scheduled interest and principal payments and holds a first priority security interest in the assets pledged as collateral. Senior debt also may impose covenants on a borrower with regard to cash flows and changes in capital structure, among other items. We generally collateralize our investments by obtaining security interests in our portfolio companies’ assets, which may include their intellectual property. In other cases we may obtain a negative pledge covering a company’s intellectual property. Our senior loans, in certain instances, may be tied to the financing of specific assets. In connection with a senior debt investment, we may also provide the borrower with a working capital line-of-credit that will carry an interest rate ranging from Prime or LIBOR plus a spread with a floor, generally maturing in one to three years, and typically secured by accounts receivable and/or inventory. 

- 

Equipment Loans. We intend to invest a limited portion of our assets in equipment-based loans to early-stage prospective portfolio companies. Equipment-based loans are secured by a first priority security interest in only the specific assets financed. These loans are generally for amounts up to $3.0 million but may be up to $15.0 million, carry a contractual interest rate between Prime and Prime plus 9.0%, and have an average term between three and four years. Equipment loans may also include end of term payments. 

- 

Equity-Related Securities. The equity-related securities we hold consist primarily of warrants or other equity interests generally obtained in connection with our structured debt investments. In addition to the warrants received as a part of a structured debt financing, we typically receive the right to make equity investments in a portfolio company in connection with that company’s next round of equity financing. We may also on certain debt investments have the right to convert a portion of the debt investment into equity. These rights will provide us with the opportunity to further enhance our returns over time through opportunistic equity investments in our portfolio companies. These equity-related investments are typically in the form of preferred or common equity and may be structured with a dividend yield, providing us with a current return, and with customary anti-dilution protection and preemptive rights. We may achieve liquidity through a merger or acquisition of a portfolio company, a public offering of a portfolio company’s stock or by exercising our right, if any, to require a portfolio company to buy back the equity-related securities we hold. We may also make stand-alone direct equity investments into portfolio companies in which we may not have any debt investment in the company. As of December 31, 2015, we held warrant and equity-related securities in 150 portfolio companies. 

A comparison of the typical features of our various investment alternatives is set forth in the chart below. 

Structured Debt with Warrants

Senior Debt

Equipment Loans

Equity-Related Securities

Typical Structure

Term debt with warrants

Term or revolving debt

Term debt with warrants

Preferred stock or common stock

Investment Horizon

Long-term, ranging from 2 to 7 years, with an average of 3 years

Usually under 3 years

Ranging from 3 to 4 years

Ranging from 3 to 7 years

Ranking/Security

Senior secured, either first out or last out, or second lien

Senior / First lien

Secured only by underlying equipment

None/unsecured

Covenants

Less restrictive; 

mostly financial

Generally borrowing base 

and financial

None

None

Risk Tolerance

Medium / High

Low

High

High

Coupon/Dividend

Cash pay - fixed and floating rate; PIK in limited cases

Cash pay - fixed or floating rate

Cash pay - fixed or floating

rate and may include PIK

Generally none

Customization or 

Flexibility

More flexible

Little to none

Little to none

Flexible

Equity Dilution

Low to medium

None to low

Low

High

Investment Criteria 

We have identified several criteria, among others, that we believe are important in achieving our investment objective with respect to prospective portfolio companies. These criteria, while not inclusive, provide general guidelines for our investment decisions. 

Portfolio Composition. While we generally focus our investments in venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries, we seek to invest across various financial sponsors as well as across various stages of companies’ development and various technology industry sub-sectors and geographies. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 63.0% of the fair value of our portfolio was composed of investments in four industries: 23.7% was composed of investments in the drug discovery and development industry, 13.7% was composed of investments in the drug delivery industry, 13.3% was composed of investments in the sustainable and renewable technology industry and 12.3% was composed of investments in the software industry. 

Continuing Support from One or More Financial Sponsors. We generally invest in companies in which one or more established financial sponsors have previously invested and continue to make a contribution to the management of the business. We believe that having established financial sponsors with meaningful commitments to the business is a key characteristic of a prospective portfolio company. In addition, we look for representatives of one or more financial sponsors to maintain seats on the Board of Directors of a prospective portfolio company as an indication of such commitment. 

Company Stage of Development. While we invest in companies at various stages of development, we generally require that prospective portfolio companies be beyond the seed stage of development and generally have received or anticipate having commitments for their first institutional round of equity financing for early stage companies. We expect a prospective portfolio company to demonstrate progress in its product development or demonstrate a path towards revenue generation or increase its revenues and operating cash flow over time. The anticipated growth rate of a prospective portfolio company is a key factor in determining the value that we ascribe to any warrants or other equity securities that we may acquire in connection with an investment in debt securities . 

Operating Plan. We generally require that a prospective portfolio company, in addition to having potential access to capital to support leverage, demonstrate an operating plan capable of generating cash flows or the ability to potentially raise the additional capital necessary to cover its operating expenses and service its debt for a specific period. Specifically, we require that a prospective portfolio company demonstrate at the time of our proposed investment that in addition to having sufficient capital to support leverage, it has an operating plan capable of generating cash flows or raising the additional capital necessary to cover its operating expenses and service its debt for an additional six to twelve months subject to market conditions. 

Security Interest. In many instances we seek a first priority security interest in all of the portfolio companies’ tangible and intangible assets as collateral for our debt investment, subject in some cases to permitted exceptions. In other cases we may obtain a negative pledge prohibiting a company from pledging or otherwise encumbering their intellectual property. Although we do not intend to operate as an asset-based lender, the estimated liquidation value of the assets, if any, collateralizing the debt securities that we hold is an important factor in our credit analysis and subject to assumptions that may change over the life of the investment especially when attempting to estimate the value of intellectual property. We generally evaluate both tangible assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, and intangible assets, such as intellectual property, customer lists, networks and databases. 

Covenants. Our investments may include one or more of the following covenants: cross-default; material adverse change provisions; requirements that the portfolio company provide periodic financial reports and operating metrics; and limitations on the portfolio company’s ability to incur additional debt, sell assets, dividend recapture, engage in transactions with affiliates and consummate an extraordinary transaction, such as a merger or recapitalization without our consent. In addition, we may require other performance or financial based covenants, as we deem appropriate. 

Exit Strategy. Prior to making a debt investment that is accompanied by an equity-related security in a prospective portfolio company, we analyze the potential for that company to increase the liquidity of its equity through a future event that would enable us to realize appreciation in the value of our equity interest. Liquidity events may include an initial public offering, a private sale of our equity interest to a third party, a merger or an acquisition of the company or a purchase of our equity position by the company or one of its stockholders. 

Investment Process 

We have organized our management team around the four key elements of our investment process: 

- 

Origination; 

- 

Underwriting; 

- 

Documentation; and 

- 

Loan and Compliance Administration. 

Our investment process is summarized in the following chart: 

Origination 

The origination process for our investments includes sourcing, screening, preliminary due diligence and deal structuring and negotiation, all leading to an executed non-binding term sheet. As of December 31, 2015, our investment origination team, which consists of approximately 35 investment professionals, is headed by our Chief Investment Officer and our Chief Executive Officer. The origination team is responsible for sourcing potential investment opportunities and members of the investment origination team use their extensive relationships with various leading financial sponsors, management contacts within technology-related companies, trade sources, technology conferences and various publications to source prospective portfolio companies. Our investment origination team is divided into special opportunity lower middle market, technology, sustainable and renewable technology, and life sciences sub-teams to better source potential portfolio companies. 

In addition, we have developed a proprietary and comprehensive SQL-based database system to track various aspects of our investment process including sourcing, originations, transaction monitoring and post-investment performance. This proprietary SQL system allows our origination team to maintain, cultivate and grow our industry relationships while providing our origination team with comprehensive details on companies in the technology-related industries and their financial sponsors. 

If a prospective portfolio company generally meets certain underwriting criteria, we perform preliminary due diligence, which may include high level company and technology assessments, evaluation of its financial sponsors’ support, market analysis, competitive analysis, identifying key management, risk analysis and transaction size, pricing, return analysis and structure analysis. If the preliminary due diligence is satisfactory, and the origination team recommends moving forward, we then structure, negotiate and execute a non-binding term sheet with the potential portfolio company. Upon execution of a term sheet, the investment opportunity moves to the underwriting process to complete formal due diligence review and approval. 

Underwriting 

The underwriting review includes formal due diligence and approval of the proposed investment in the portfolio company. 

Due Diligence. Our due diligence on a prospective investment is typically completed by two or more investment professionals whom we define as the underwriting team. The underwriting team for a proposed investment consists of the deal sponsor who typically possesses general industry knowledge and is responsible for originating and managing the transaction, other investment professional(s) who perform due diligence, credit and corporate financial analyses and, as needed, our legal professionals. To ensure consistent underwriting, we generally use our standardized due diligence methodologies, which include due diligence on financial performance and credit risk as well as an analysis of the operations and the legal and applicable regulatory framework of a prospective portfolio company. The members of the underwriting team work together to conduct due diligence and understand the relationships among the prospective portfolio company’s business plan, operations and financial performance. 

As part of our evaluation of a proposed investment, the underwriting team prepares an investment memorandum for presentation to the investment committee. In preparing the investment memorandum, the underwriting team typically interviews select key management of the company and select financial sponsors and assembles information necessary to the investment decision. If and when appropriate, the investment professionals may also contact industry experts and customers, vendors or, in some cases, competitors of the company. 

Approval Process. The sponsoring managing director or principal presents the investment memorandum to our investment committee for consideration. The approval of a majority of our investment committee and an affirmative vote by our Chief Executive Officer is required before we proceed with any investment. The members of our investment committee are our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, and our Chief Investment Officer. The investment committee generally meets weekly and more frequently on an as-needed basis. 

Documentation 

Our legal department administers the documentation process for our investments. This department is responsible for documenting the transactions approved by our investment committee with a prospective portfolio company. This department negotiates loan documentation and, subject to appropriate approvals, final documents are prepared for execution by all parties. The legal department generally uses the services of external law firms to complete the necessary documentation. 

Loan and Compliance Administration 

Our investment team, credit team, and finance department, headed by our investment committee, administer loans and track covenant compliance, if applicable, of our investments and oversees periodic reviews of our critical functions to ensure adherence with our internal policies and procedures. After funding of a loan in accordance with the investment committee’s approval, the loan is recorded in our loan administration software and our SQL-based database system. The investment team, credit team, and finance department are responsible for ensuring timely interest and principal payments and collateral management as well as advising the investment committee on the financial performance and trends of each portfolio company, including any covenant violations that occur, to aid us in assessing the appropriate course of action for each portfolio company and evaluating overall portfolio quality. In addition, the investment team and credit team advise the investment committee and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, accordingly, regarding the credit and investment grading for each portfolio company as well as changes in the value of collateral that may occur. 

The investment team and credit team monitor our portfolio companies in order to determine whether the companies are meeting our financing criteria and their respective business plans and also monitors the financial trends of each portfolio company from its monthly or quarterly financial statements to assess the appropriate course of action for each company and to evaluate overall portfolio quality. In addition, our management team closely monitors the status and performance of each individual company through our SQL-based database system and periodic contact with our portfolio companies’ management teams and their respective financial sponsors. 

Credit and Investment Grading System. Our investment team and credit team use an investment grading system to characterize and monitor our outstanding loans. Our investment team and credit team monitors and, when appropriate, recommends changes to investment grading. Our investment committee reviews the recommendations and/or changes to the investment grading, which are submitted on a quarterly basis to the Audit Committee and our Board of Directors for approval. 

From time to time, we will identify investments that require closer monitoring or become workout assets. We develop a workout strategy for workout assets and our investment committee monitors the progress against the strategy. We may incur losses from our investing activities, however, we work with our troubled portfolio companies in order to recover as much of our investments as is practicable, including possibly taking control of the portfolio company. There can be no assurance that principal will be recovered. 

We use the following investment grading system approved by our Board of D irectors: 

Grade 1. 

Loans involve the least amount of risk in our portfolio. The borrower is performing above expectations, and the trends and risk profile is generally favorable. 

Grade 2. 

The borrower is performing as expected and the risk profile is neutral to favorable. All new loans are initially graded 2. 

Grade 3. 

The borrower may be performing below expectations, and the loan’s risk has increased materially since origination. We increase procedures to monitor a borrower that may have limited amounts of cash remaining on the balance sheet, is approaching its next equity capital raise within the next three to six months, or if the estimated fair value of the enterprise may be lower than when the loan was originated. We will generally lower the loan grade to a level 3 even if the company is performing in accordance to plan as it approaches the need to raise additional cash to fund its operations. Once the borrower closes its new equity capital raise, we may increase the loan grade back to grade 2 or maintain it at a grade 3 as the company continues to pursue its business plan. 

Grade 4. 

The borrower is performing materially below expectations, and the loan risk has substantially increased since origination. Loans graded 4 may experience some partial loss or full return of principal but are expected to realize some loss of interest which is not anticipated to be repaid in full, which, to the extent not already reflected, may require the fair value of the loan to be reduced to the amount we anticipate will be recovered. Grade 4 investments are closely monitored. 

Grade 5. 

The borrower is in workout, materially performing below expectations and a significant risk of principal loss is probable. Loans graded 5 will experience some partial principal loss or full loss of remaining principal outstanding is expected. Grade 5 loans will require the fair value of the loans be reduced to the amount, if any, we anticipate will be recovered. 

At December 31, 2015, our investments had a weighted average investment grading of 2.16. 

Managerial Assistance 

As a business development company, we are required to offer, and provide upon request, managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. This assistance could involve, among other things, monitoring the operations of our portfolio companies, participating in board and management meetings, consulting with and advising officers of portfolio companies and providing other organizational and financial guidance. We may, from time to time, receive fees for these services. In the event that such fees are received, they are incorporated into our operating income and are passed through to our shareholders, given the nature of our structure as an internally managed business development company. See "—Regulation—Significant Managerial Assistance" for additional information.

COMPETITION 

Our primary competitors provide financing to prospective portfolio companies and include non-bank financial institutions, federally or state chartered banks, venture debt funds, financial institutions, venture capital funds, private equity funds, investment funds and investment banks. Many of these entities have greater financial and managerial resources than we have, and the 1940 Act imposes certain regulatory restrictions on us as a business development company to which many of our competitors are not subject. However, we believe that few of our competitors possess the expertise to properly structure and price debt investments to venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries. We believe that our specialization in financing technology-related companies will enable us to determine a range of potential values of intellectual property assets, evaluate the business prospects and operating characteristics of prospective portfolio companies and, as a result, identify investment opportunities that produce attractive risk-adjusted returns. For additional information concerning the competitive risks we face, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to our Business and Structure—We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, and we may not be able to compete effectively." 

BROKERAGE ALLOCATIONS AND OTHER PRACTICES 

Because we generally acquire and dispose of our investments in privately negotiated transactions, we typically do not use brokers in the normal course of business. However, from time to time, we may work with brokers to sell positions we have acquired in the securities of publicly listed companies or to acquire positions (principally equity) in companies where we see a market opportunity to acquire such securities at attractive valuations. In cases where we do use a broker, we do not execute transactions through any particular broker or dealer, but will seek to obtain the best net results for the Company, taking into account such factors as price (including the applicable brokerage commission or dealer spread), size of order, difficulty of execution, and operational facilities of the firm and the firm’s risk and skill in positioning blocks of securities. While we generally seek reasonably competitive execution costs, we may not necessarily pay the lowest spread or commission available. Subject to applicable legal requirements, we may select a broker based partly upon brokerage or research services provided to us. In return for such services, we may pay a higher commission than other brokers would charge if we determine in good faith that such commission is reasonable in relation to the services provided. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 63 employees, including approximately 35 investment and portfolio management professionals, all of whom have extensive experience working on financing transactions for technology-related companies. 

REGULATION 

The following discussion is a general summary of the material prohibitions and descriptions governing business development companies. It does not purport to be a complete description of all of the laws and regulations affecting business development companies. 

A business development company primarily focuses on investing in or lending to private companies and making managerial assistance available to them, while providing its stockholders with the ability to retain the liquidity of a publicly-traded stock. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between business development companies and their directors and officers and principal underwriters and certain other related persons and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than "interested persons," as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a business development company unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities as defined in the 1940 Act. A majority of the outstanding voting securities of a company is defined under the 1940 Act as the lesser of: (i) 67% or more of such company’s shares present at a meeting if more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company are present or represented by proxy, or (ii) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of such company. 

Qualifying Assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a business development company may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company’s total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our proposed business are the following: 

(1) 

Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company, or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. An eligible portfolio company is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: 

(a) 

is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; 

(b) 

is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the business development company) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and 

(c) 

does not have any class of securities listed on a national securities exchange; or if it has securities listed on a national securities exchange such company has a market capitalization of less than $250 million; is controlled by the business development company and has an affiliate of a business development company on its board of directors; or meets such other criteria as may be established by the SEC. 

(2) 

Securities of any portfolio company which we control.

(3) 

Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issue r, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. 

(4) 

Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. 

(5) 

Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) through (4) above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. 

(6) 

Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. 

Control, as defined by the 1940 Act, is presumed to exist where a business development company beneficially owns more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of the portfolio company. 

We do not intend to acquire securities issued by any investment company, including other business development companies, that exceed the limits imposed by the 1940 Act. Under these limits, we generally cannot acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of any investment company (as defined in the 1940 Act), invest more than 5% of the value of our total assets in the securities of one such investment company or invest more than 10% of the value of our total assets in the securities of such other investment companies in the aggregate. With regard to that portion of our portfolio invested in securities issued by investment companies, it should be noted that such investments might subject our stockholders to additional expenses. 

Significant Managerial Assistance 

Business development companies generally must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance, except in circumstances where either (i) the business development company controls such issuer of securities or (ii) the business development company purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together and one of the other persons in the group makes available such managerial assistance. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the business development company, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company through monitoring of portfolio company operations, selective participation in board and management meetings, consulting with and advising a portfolio company’s officers or other organizational or financial guidance. 

Temporary Investments 

Pending investment in other types of qualifying assets, as described above, our investments may consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which we refer to, collectively, as temporary investments, so that 70% of our assets are qualifying assets. We may invest in U.S. treasury bills or in repurchase agreements, provided that such agreements are fully collateralized by cash or securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. A repurchase agreement involves the purchase by an investor, such as us, of a specified security and the simultaneous agreement by the seller to repurchase it at an agreed upon future date and at a price which is greater than the purchase price by an amount that reflects an agreed-upon interest rate. There is no percentage restriction on the proportion of our assets that may be invested in such repurchase agreements. However, if more than 25% of our total assets constitute repurchase agreements from a single counterparty, we generally would not meet the diversification tests imposed on us by the Code in order to qualify as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. Thus, we do not intend to enter into repurchase agreements with a single counterparty in excess of this limit. We will monitor the creditworthiness of the counterparties with which we enter into repurchase agreement transactions. 

Warrants and Options 

Under the 1940 Act, a business development company is subject to restrictions on the amount of warrants, options, restricted stock or rights to purchase shares of capital stock that it may have outstanding at any time. In particular, the amount of capital stock that would result from the conversion or exercise of all outstanding warrants, options or other rights to purchase capital stock cannot exceed 25% of the business development company’s total outstanding shares of capital stock. This amount is reduced to 20% of the business development company’s total outstanding shares of capital stock if the amount of warrants, options or rights issued pursuant to an executive compensation plan would exceed 15% of the business development company’s total outstanding shares of capital stock. We have received exemptive relief from the SEC permitting us to issue stock options and restricted stock to our employees and directors subject to the above conditions, among others. For a discussion regarding the conditions of this exemptive relief, see "—Exemptive Relief" below and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Senior Securities; Coverage Ratio 

We will be permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least equal to 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, we may not be permitted to declare any cash dividend or other distribution on our outstanding common shares, or purchase any such shares, unless, at the time of such declaration or purchase, we have asset coverage of at least 200% after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution, or purchase price. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary or emergency purposes. For a discussion of the risks associated with the resulting leverage, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business &amp; Structure—Because we have substantial indebtedness, there could be increased risk in investing in our company." On April 5, 2007, we received approval from the SEC on our request for exemptive relief that permits us to exclude the indebtedness of our wholly-owned subsidiaries that are small business investment companies from the 200% asset coverage requirement applicable to us.

Capital Structure 

We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock, or sell warrants, options or other rights to acquire such common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders have approved the practice of making such sales. 

At the 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on July 7, 2015, our common stockholders approved a proposal to allow us to issue common stock at a discount from its then current net asset value ("NAV") per share, which is effective for a period expiring on the earlier of July 7, 2016 or the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders. In connection with the receipt of such stockholder approval, we will limit the number of shares that we issue at a price below net asset value pursuant to this authorization so that the aggregate dilutive effect on our then outstanding shares will not exceed 20%. Our Board of Directors, subject to its fiduciary duties and regulatory requirements, has the discretion to determine the amount of the discount, and as a result, the discount could be up to 100% of net asset value per share. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we have not issued common stock at a discount to NAV.

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted and will maintain a code of ethics that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to the code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts, including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code’s requirements. Our code of ethics will generally not permit investments by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. We may be prohibited under the 1940 Act from conducting certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, the prior approval of the SEC. 

Our current code of ethics is posted on our website at www.htgc.com and was filed with the SEC as an exhibit to a Form 8-K filing on July 13, 2015. You may read and copy the code of ethics at the SEC’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090. In addition, the code of ethics is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov . You may also obtain copies of the code of ethics, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following e-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov , or by writing the SEC’s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. 

Privacy Principles 

We are committed to maintaining the privacy of our stockholders and safeguarding their non-public personal information. The following information is provided to help you understand what personal information we collect, how we protect that information and why, in certain cases, we may share information with select other parties. 

Generally, we do not receive any non-public personal information relating to our stockholders, although certain non-public personal information of our stockholders may become available to us. We do not disclose any non-public personal information about our stockholders or former stockholders, except as permitted by law or as is necessary in order to service stockholder accounts (for example, to a transfer agent). 

We restrict access to non-public personal information about our stockholders to our employees with a legitimate business need for the information. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards designed to protect the non-public personal information of our stockholders. 

Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures 

We vote proxies relating to our portfolio securities in the best interest of our stockholders. We review on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted to a stockholder vote to determine its impact on the portfolio securities held by us. Although we generally vote against proposals that may have a negative impact on our portfolio securities, we may vote for such a proposal if there exists compelling long-term reasons to do so. 

Our proxy voting decisions are made by our investment committee, which is responsible for monitoring each of our investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, we require that: (i) anyone involved in the decision making process disclose to our Chief Compliance Officer any potential conflict that he or she is aware of and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote; and (ii) employees involved in the decision making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties. 

Exemptive Relief 

On June 21, 2005, we filed a request with the SEC for exemptive relief to allow us to take certain actions that would otherwise be prohibited by the 1940 Act, as applicable to business development companies. Specifically, we requested that the SEC permit us to issue stock options to our non-employee directors as contemplated by Section 61(a)(3)(B)(i)(II) of the 1940 Act. On February 15, 2007, we received approval from the SEC on this exemptive request. In addition, in June 2007, we filed an amendment to the February 2007 order to adjust the number of shares issued to the non-employee directors. On October 10, 2007, we received approval from the SEC on this amended exemptive request. 

On April 5, 2007, we received approval from the SEC on our request for exemptive relief that permits us to exclude the indebtedness of our wholly-owned subsidiaries that are small business investment companies from the 200% asset coverage requirement applicable to us. 

On May 23, 2007, we received approval from the SEC on our request for exemptive relief that permits us to issue restricted stock to our employees, officers and directors. On June 21, 2007, our shareholders approved amendments to the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and 2006 Non-Employee Incentive Plan (collectively, the "Plans") permitting such restricted grants. The maximum amount of shares that may be issued under the Plans will be 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on the effective date of the Plans plus 10% of the outstanding number of shares of our common stock issued or delivered by us (other than pursuant to compensation plans) during the term of the Plans. The amount of voting securities that would result from the exercise of all of our outstanding warrants, options, and rights, if any, together with any restricted stock issued pursuant to the Plans, at the time of issuance shall not exceed 25% of our outstanding voting securities, except that if such amount would exceed 15% of our outstanding voting securities, then the total amount of voting securities that would result from the exercise of all outstanding warrants, options, and rights, if any, together with any restricted stock issued pursuant to the Plans, at the time of issuance shall not exceed 20% of our outstanding voting securities.

On June 22, 2010 we received approval from the SEC on our request for exemptive relief that permits our employees to exercise their stock options and restricted stock and pay any related income taxes using a cashless exercise program.

Other 

We will be periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with the Exchange Act and the 1940 Act. 

We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a business development company, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to our stockholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person’s office. 

We are required to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. Our Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for administering these policies and procedures. 

Small Business Administration Regulations 

We make investments in qualifying small businesses through our two wholly-owned SBIC subsidiaries, HT II and HT III. With our net investments of $44.0 million and $74.5 million in HT II and HT III, respectively, we have the combined capacity to issue a total of $190.2 million of SBA guaranteed debentures, subject to SBA approval. At December 31, 2015, we have issued $190.2 million in SBA guaranteed debentures in our SBIC subsidiaries. 

We intend to seek an additional SBIC license to ensure continued access to the maximum statutory limit of SBA guaranteed debentures under the SBIC program, which currently is $350.0 million for a group of SBICs under common control, subject to periodic adjustments by the SBA. We have formed Hercules Technology IV, L.P. for that purpose. There can be no assurance of when or if we will receive SBA approval for another SBIC license.

SBICs are designed to stimulate the flow of private equity capital to eligible small businesses. Under present SBA regulations, eligible small businesses include businesses that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $19.5 million and have average annual fully taxed net income not exceeding $6.5 million for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, SBICs must devote 25.0% of its investment activity to "smaller" enterprises as defined by the SBA. A smaller enterprise is one that has a tangible net worth not exceeding $6.0 million and has average annual fully taxed net income not exceeding $2.0 million for the two most recent fiscal years. SBA regulations also provide alternative size standard criteria to determine eligibility, which depend on the industry in which the business is engaged and are based on such factors as the number of employees and gross sales. According to SBA regulations, SBICs may make long-term loans to small businesses, invest in the equity securities of such businesses and provide them with consulting and advisory services. Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries HT II and HT III, we plan to provide long-term loans to qualifying small businesses, and in connection therewith, make equity investments. 

HT II and HT III are periodically examined and audited by the SBA’s staff to determine their compliance with SBA regulations. If HT II or HT III fails to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit HT II’s or HT III’s use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit HT II or HT III from making new investments. In addition, HT II or HT III may also be limited in their ability to make distributions to the Company if they do not have sufficient capital in accordance with SBA regulations. Such actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect the Company because HT II and III are our wholly owned subsidiaries. HT II and HT III were in compliance with the terms of the SBIC’s leverage as of December 31, 2015 as a result of having sufficient capital as defined under the SBA regulations. 

HT II and HT III hold approximately $128.3 million and $310.8 million in assets, respectively, and accounted for approximately 7.6% and 18.5% of our total assets prior to consolidation at December 31, 2015. 

The SBA restricts the ability of SBICs to repurchase their capital stock. SBA regulations also include restrictions on a "change of control" or transfer of an SBIC and require that SBICs invest idle funds in accordance with SBA regulations. In addition, HT II and HT III may also be limited in their ability to make distributions to us if they do not have sufficient capital and/or distributed earnings, in accordance with SBA regulations. 

Our SBIC subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by the SBA, including requirements with respect to maintaining certain minimum financial ratios and other covenants. Receipt of an SBIC license does not assure that our SBIC subsidiaries will receive SBA guaranteed debenture funding, which is dependent upon our SBIC subsidiaries continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to our SBIC subsidiaries’ assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate our SBIC subsidiaries or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA-guaranteed debentures issued by our SBIC subsidiaries upon an event of default. 

CERTAIN UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS 

The following discussion is a general summary of certain material U.S. federal income tax considerations relating to our qualification and taxation as a RIC and the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our preferred stock or common stock, but does not purport to be a complete description of the income tax considerations relating thereto. 

Election to be Taxed as a RIC 

Through December 31, 2005, we were subject to federal income tax as an ordinary corporation under Subchapter C of the Code. Effective beginning on January 1, 2006 we met the criteria specified below to qualify as a RIC, and elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code with the filing of our federal income tax return for 2006. As a RIC, we generally will not have to pay corporate taxes on any income we distribute to our stockholders as dividends, which allows us to reduce or eliminate our corporate level tax. On December 31, 2005, immediately before the effective date of our RIC election, we held assets with "built-in gains," which are assets whose fair market value as of the effective date of the election exceeded their tax basis as of such date. We elected to recognize all of our net built-in gains on such assets at the time of the conversion and paid tax on the built-in gain with the filing of our 2005 federal income tax return. In making this election, we marked our portfolio investments and other assets to market at the time of our RIC election and paid approximately $294,000 in income tax on the resulting gains. 

Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company 

For any taxable year in which we: 

- 

qualify as a RIC; and 

- 

distribute dividends to our shareholders of an amount at least equal to 90% of the sum of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, or our "investment company taxable income," (the "Annual Distribution Requirement"); we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on the portion of our investment company taxable income and net capital gain ( i.e. , net realized long-term capital gains in excess of net realized short-term capital losses) we distribute (or are deemed to distribute) as dividends to stockholders with respect to that taxable year. As described above, we made the election to recognize built-in gains as of the effective date of our election to be treated as a RIC and therefore will not be subject to built-in gains tax when we sell those assets. However, if we subsequently acquire built-in gain assets from a C corporation in a carryover basis transaction, then we may be subject to tax on the gains recognized by us on dispositions of such assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on such built-in gain at the time the assets are acquired. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on any income or capital gains not distributed (or deemed distributed) as dividends to our stockholders. 

In order to qualify as a RIC for federal income tax purposes and obtain the tax benefits of RIC status, in addition to satisfying the Annual Distribution Requirement, we must, among other things: 

- 

have in effect at all times during each taxable year an election to be regulated as a business development company under the 1940 Act; 

- 

derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from (a) dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities and (b) net income derived from an interest in a "qualified publicly traded partnership" (the "90% Income Test"); and diversify our holdings so that at the end of each quarter of the taxable year: 

- 

at the close of each quarter of each taxable year, at least 50% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities if such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of the value of our assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer; and 

- 

at the close of each quarter of each taxable year, no more than 25% of the value of our assets is invested in (i) securities (other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs) of one issuer, (ii) securities of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable tax rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or (iii) securities of one or more "qualified publicly traded partnerships" (the "Diversification Tests"). 

We may invest in partnerships which may result in our being subject to state, local or foreign income, franchise or other tax liabilities. In addition, some of the income and fees that we may recognize will not satisfy the 90% Income Test. In order to mitigate the risk that such income and fees would disqualify us as a RIC as a result of a failure to satisfy the 90% Income Test, we may be required to recognize such income and fees indirect ly through one or more entities classified as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such corporations will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax on their earnings, which ultimately will reduce our return on such income and fees. 

As a RIC, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible U.S. federal excise tax on certain undistributed income and gains unless we distribute in respect of each calendar year in a timely manner dividends of an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98% of our ordinary income (taking into account certain deferrals and elections) for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income (adjusted for certain ordinary losses) for the 1-year period ending October 31 in that calendar year and (3) any ordinary income or capital gain net income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding calendar years (the "Excise Tax Avoidance Requirements"). We will not be subject to excise taxes on amounts on which we are required to pay corporate income tax (such as retained net capital gains). Depending on the level of our investment company taxable income and net capital gains earned in a taxable year, we may choose to carry over all or a portion of such investment company taxable income and net capital gains in excess of current year dividend distributions from such investment company taxable income and net capital gains into the next taxable year and pay a 4% excise tax on such investment company taxable income and net capital gains, as required. The maximum amount of such excess investment company taxable income and net capital gains that may be carried over for distribution in the next taxable year under the Code is the total amount of dividends paid in the following taxable year, subject to certain declaration and payment guidelines. To the extent we choose to carry over investment company taxable income or net capital gains into the next taxable year, dividends declared and paid by us in a taxable year may differ from investment company taxable income or net capital gains for that taxable year as such dividends may include the distribution of dividends derived from the current taxable year’s investment company taxable income or net capital gains, the distribution of prior taxable year’s investment company taxable income or net capital gains carried over into and distributed in the current taxable year, or returns of capital.

Under applicable Treasury regulations and other administrative guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"), we are permitted to treat certain distributions payable in our stock as taxable dividends that will satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement as well as the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement provided that shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive the distribution in cash. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, then such sales may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. We may in the future determine to distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our common stock. 

We may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest provisions or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. Because any original issue discount accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the taxable year of accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement and the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. 

Gain or loss realized by us from the sale or exchange of warrants acquired by us as well as any loss attributable to the lapse of such warrants generally will be treated as capital gain or loss. Such gain or loss generally will be long-term or short-term, depending on how long we held a particular warrant. 

We are author ized to borrow funds and to sell assets in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement and the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement (collectively, the "Distribution Requirements"). However, under the 1940 Act, we are not permitted to make distribution s to our stockholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain "asset coverage" tests are met. See "—Regulation—Senior Securities; Coverage Ratio." We may be restricted from making distributions under the terms of our debt obligations themselves unless certain conditions are satisfied. Moreover, our ability to dispose of assets to meet the Distribution Requirements may be limited by (1) the illiquid nature of our portfolio, or (2) other requirements relating to o ur status as a RIC, including the Diversification Tests. If we dispose of assets in order to meet the Distribution Requirements, we may make such dispositions at times that, from an investment standpoint, are not advantageous. If we are prohibited from mak ing distributions or are unable to obtain cash from other sources to make the distributions, we may fail to be subject to tax as a RIC, which would result in us becoming subject to corporate-level federal income tax. 

In addition, we will be partially dependent on our SBIC subsidiaries for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC Distribution Requirements. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, and SBA regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to maintain our status as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions for our SBIC subsidiaries to make certain distributions to maintain our RIC status. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such waiver. If our SBIC subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may cause us to fail to be subject to tax as a RIC, which would result in us becoming subject to corporate-level federal income tax. 

Certain of our investment practices are subject to special and complex U.S. federal income tax provisions that may, among other things, (i) convert dividends that would otherwise constitute qualified dividend income into ordinary income, (ii) treat dividends that would otherwise be eligible for deductions available to certain U.S. corporations under the Code as ineligible for such treatment, (iii) disallow, suspend or otherwise limit the allowance of certain losses or deductions, (iv) convert long-term capital gains into short-term capital gains or ordinary income, (v) convert short-term capital losses into long-term capital losses, (vi) convert an ordinary loss or deduction into a capital loss (the deductibility of which is more limited), (vii) cause us to recognize income or gain without a corresponding receipt of cash, (viii) adversely alter the characterization of certain complex financial transactions, and (ix) produce gross income that will not constitute qualifying gross income for purposes of the gross income requirement that applies to RICs. These rules also could affect the amount, timing and character of distributions to stockholders.

A RIC is limited in its ability to deduct expenses in excess of its "investment company taxable income" (which is, generally, ordinary income plus net realized short-term capital gains in excess of net realized long-term capital losses). If our expenses in a given taxable year exceed gross taxable income (e.g., as the result of large amounts of equity-based compensation), we would incur a net operating loss for that year. However, a RIC is not permitted to carry forward net operating losses to subsequent taxable years and such net operating losses do not pass through to the RIC’s stockholders. In addition, deductible expenses can be used only to offset investment company taxable income, not net capital gain. A RIC may not use any net capital losses (that is, realized capital losses in excess of realized capital gains) to offset the RIC’s investment company taxable income, but may carry forward such net capital losses, and use them to offset capital gains indefinitely. Due to these limits on the deductibility of expenses and net capital losses, we may for tax purposes have aggregate taxable income for several taxable years that we are required to distribute and that is taxable to our stockholders even if such taxable income is greater than the aggregate net income we actually earned during those taxable years. Such required distributions may be made from our cash assets or by liquidation of investments, if necessary. We may realize gains or losses from such liquidations. In the event we realize net capital gains from such transactions, you may receive a larger capital gain distribution than you would have received in the absence of such transactions . 

Investment income received from sources within foreign countries, or capital gains earned by investing in securities of foreign issuers, may be subject to foreign income taxes withheld at the source. In this regard, withholding tax rates in countries with which the United States does not have a tax treaty are often as high as 35% or more. The United States has entered into tax treaties with many foreign countries that may entitle us to a reduced rate of tax or exemption from tax on this related income and gains. The effective rate of foreign tax cannot be determined at this time since the amount of our assets to be invested within various countries is not now known. We do not anticipate being eligible for the special election that allows a RIC to treat foreign income taxes paid by such RIC as having been paid by its shareholders. 

If we acquire stock in certain foreign corporations that receive at least 75% of their annual gross income from passive sources (such as interest, dividends, rents, royalties or capital gain) or hold at least 50% of their total assets in investments producing such passive income ("passive foreign investment companies"), we could be subject to federal income tax and additional interest charges on "excess distributions" received from such companies or gain from the sale of stock in such companies, even if all income or gain actually received by us is timely distributed to our shareholders. We would not be able to pass through to our shareholders any credit or deduction for such a tax. Certain elections may, if available, ameliorate these adverse tax consequences, but any such election requires us to recognize taxable income or gain without the concurrent receipt of cash. We intend to limit and/or manage our holdings in passive foreign investment companies to minimize our liability for any such taxes and related interest charges. 

Foreign exchange gains and losses realized by us in connection with certain transactions involving foreign currencies, or payables or recei vables denominated in a foreign currency, as well as certain non-U.S. dollar denominated debt securities, certain foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency option contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, and similar financial instruments a re subject to Code provisions that generally treat such gains and losses as ordinary income and losses and may affect the amount, timing and character of distributions to our stockholders. Any such transactions that are not directly related to our investme nt in securities (possibly including speculative currency positions or currency derivatives not used for hedging purposes) also could, under future Treasury regulations, produce income not among the types of "qualifying income" from which a RIC must derive at least 90% of its annual gross income. 

Failure to Qualify as a Regulated Investment Company 

If we fail to satisfy the 90% Income Test or the Diversification Tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a RIC for such year if certain relief provisions are applicable (which may, among other things, require us to pay certain corporate-level federal taxes or to dispose of certain assets). 

If we were unable to qualify for treatment as a RIC and the foregoing relief provisions are not applicable, we would be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders, nor would they be required to be made. Such distributions would be taxable to our stockholders and provided certain holding period and other requirements were met, could qualify for treatment as "qualified dividend income" eligible for the 20% maximum rate to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributions generally would be eligible for the dividends-received deduction with respect to distributions from our earnings and profits. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s tax basis, and any remaining distributions would be treated as a capital gain. To requalify as a RIC in a subsequent taxable year, we would be required to satisfy the RIC qualification requirements for that taxable year and dispose of any earnings and profits from any taxable year in which we failed to qualify as a RIC. Subject to a limited exception applicable to RICs that qualified as such under Subchapter M of the Code for at least one taxable year prior to disqualification and that requalify as a RIC no later than the second taxable year following the nonqualifying taxable year, we could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gains in the assets held by us during the period in which we failed to qualify as a RIC that are recognized within the subsequent ten taxable years, unless we made a special election to pay corporate-level tax on such built-in gain at the time of our requalification as a RIC.

DETERMINATION OF NET ASSET VALUE

We determine the net asset value per share of our common stock quarterly. The net asset value per share is equal to the value of our total assets minus liabilities and any preferred stock outstanding divided by the total number of shares of common stock outstanding. As of the date of this report, we do not have any preferred stock outstanding. 

At December 31, 2015, 90.0% of the Company’s total assets represented investments in portfolio companies whose fair value is determined by the Board of Directors. Value, as defined in Section 2(a)(41) of the 1940 Act, is (i) the market price for those securities for which a market quotation is readily available and (ii) for all other securities and assets, fair value is as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. The Company’s investments are carried at fair value in accordance with the 1940 Act and Accounting Standards Codification Topic 946 Financial Services — Investment Companies ("ASC 946") and measured in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC 820"). The Company’s debt securities are primarily invested in venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries including technology, drug discovery and development, biotechnology, life sciences, healthcare, and sustainable and renewable technology at all stages of development. Given the nature of lending to these types of businesses, substantially all of the Company’s investments in these portfolio companies are considered Level 3 assets under ASC 820 because there is no known or accessible market or market indexes for these investment securities to be traded or exchanged. As such, the Company values substantially all of its investments at fair value as determined in good faith pursuant to a consistent valuation policy by the Company’s Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of ASC 820 and the 1940 Act. Due to the inherent uncertainty in determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of the Company’s investments determined in good faith by its Board of Directors may differ significantly from the value that would have been used had a readily available market existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. 

The Company may from time to time engage an independent valuation firm to provide the Company with valuation assistance with respect to certain portfolio investments on a quarterly basis. The Company engages independent valuation firms on a discretionary basis. Specifically, on a quarterly basis, the Company will identify portfolio investments with respect to which an independent valuation firm will assist in valuing. The Company selects these portfolio investments based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the potential for material fluctuations in valuation results, credit quality and the time lapse since the last valuation of the portfolio investment by an independent valuation firm.

The Company intends to continue to engage an independent valuation firm to provide management with assistance regarding the Company’s determination of the fair value of selected portfolio investments each quarter unless directed by the Board of Directors to cancel such valuation services . The scope of services rendered by an independent valuation firm is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors is ultimately, and solely, responsible for determining the fair value of the Company’s investments in good fa ith. 

With respect to investments for which market quotations are not readily available or when such market quotations are deemed not to represent fair value, the Company’s Board of Directors has approved a multi-step valuation process each quarter, as described below: 

(1) the Company’s quarterly valuation process begins with each portfolio company being initially valued by the investment professionals responsible for the portfolio investment; 

(2) preliminary valuation conclusions are then documented and business based assumptions are discussed with the Company’s investment committee; 

(3) the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the preliminary valuation of the investments in the portfolio as provided by the investment committee, which incorporates the results of the independent valuation firm as appropriate; and

(4) the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, discusses valuations and determines the fair value of each investment in our portfolio in good faith based on the input of, where applicable, the respective independent valuation firm and the investment committee. 

ASC 820 establishes a framework for measuring the fair value of the assets and liabilities and outlines a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measures on earnings. ASC 820 also enhances disclosure requirements for fair value measurements based on the level within the hierarchy of the information used in the valuation. ASC 820 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 

The Company has categorized all investments recorded at fair value in accordance with ASC 820 based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Hierarchical levels, defined by ASC 820 and directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities, are as follows: 

Level 1—Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the measurement date. The types of assets carried at Level 1 fair value generally are equities listed in active markets. 

Level 2—Inputs (other than quoted prices included in Level 1) are either directly or indirectly observable for the asset in connection with market data at the measurement date and for the extent of the instrument’s anticipated life. Fair valued assets that are generally included in this category are publicly held debt investments and warrants held in a public company. 

Level 3—Inputs reflect management’s best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset at the measurement date. It includes prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. Generally, assets carried at fair value and included in this category are the debt investments and warrants and equities held in a private company. 

Debt Investments 

The Company follows the guidance set forth in ASC 820 which establishes a framework for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities and outlines a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measures on earnings. The Company’s debt securities are primarily invested in venture capital-backed companies in technology-related industries including technology, drug discovery and development, biotechnology, life sciences, healthcare, and sustainable and renewable technology at all stages of development. Given the nature of lending to these types of businesses, substantially all of the Company’s investments in these portfolio companies are considered Level 3 assets under ASC 820 because there is no known or accessible market or market indexes for debt instruments for these investment securities to be traded or exchanged. In addition, the Company may, from time to time, invest in public debt of companies that meet the Company’s investment objectives. These investments are considered Level 2 assets.

In making a good faith determination of the value of the Company’s investments, the Company generally starts with the cost basis of the investment, which includes the value attributed to the OID, if any, and PIK interest or other receivables which have been accrued to principal as earned. The Company then applies the valuation methods as set forth below.

The Company applies a procedure for debt investments that assumes the sale of each investment in a hypothetical market to a hypothetical market participant where buyers and sellers are willing participants. The hypothetical market does not include scenarios where the underlying security was simply repaid or extinguished, but includes an exit concept. The Company determines the yield at inception for each debt inves tment. 

The Company then uses senior secured, leveraged loan yields provided by third party providers to determine the change in market yields between inception of the debt security and the measurement date. Industry specific indices and other relevant market data are used to benchmark/assess market based movements.

Under this process, the Company also evaluates the collateral for recoverability of the debt investment. The Company considers each portfolio company’s credit rating, security liens and other characteristics of the investment to adjust the baseline yield to derive a credit adjusted hypothetical yield for each investment as of the measurement date. The anticipated future cash flows from each investment are then discounted at the hypothetical yield to estimate each investment’s fair value as of the measurement date.

The Company’s process includes, among other things, the underlying investment performance, the current portfolio company’s financial condition and market changing events that impact valuation, estimated remaining life, current market yield and interest rate spreads of similar securities as of the measurement date. The Company values its syndicated loans using broker quotes and bond indices amongst other factors. If there is a significant deterioration of the credit quality of a debt investment, the Company may consider other factors to estimate fair value, including the proceeds that would be received in a liquidation analysis.

The Company records unrealized depreciation on investments when it believes that an investment has decreased in value, including where collection of a debt investment is doubtful or, if under the in-exchange premise, when the value of a debt security is less than amortized cost of the investment. Conversely, where appropriate, the Company records unrealized appreciation if it believes that the underlying portfolio company has appreciated in value and, therefore, that its investment has also appreciated in value or, if under the in-exchange premise, the value of a debt security is greater than amortized cost.

When originating a debt instrument, the Company generally receives warrants or other equity-related securities from the borrower. The Company determines the cost basis of the warrants or other equity-related securities received based upon their respective fair values on the date of receipt in proportion to the total fair value of the debt and warrants or other equity-related securities received. Any resulting discount on the debt investments from recordation of the warrant or other equity instruments is accreted into interest income over the life of the debt investment.

Debt investments that are traded on a public exchange will be valued at the prevailing market price at period end.

Equity-Related Securities and Warrants 

Securities that are traded in the over-the-counter markets or on a stock exchange will be valued at the prevailing bid price at period end. The Company has a limited amount of equity securities in public companies. In accordance with the 1940 Act, unrestricted publicly traded securities for which market quotations are readily available are valued at the closing market quote on the measurement date.

The Company estimates the fair value of warrants using a Black Scholes option pricing model. At each reporting date, privately held warrant and equity-related securities are valued based on an analysis of various factors including, but not limited to, the portfolio company’s operating performance and financial condition and general market conditions, price to enterprise value or price to equity ratios, discounted cash flow, valuation comparisons to comparable public companies or other industry benchmarks. When an external event occurs, such as a purchase transaction, public offering, or subsequent equity sale, the pricing indicated by that external event is utilized to corroborate the Company’s valuation of the warrant and equity-related securities. The Company periodically reviews the valuation of its portfolio companies that have not been involved in a qualifying external event to determine if the enterprise value of the portfolio company may have increased or decreased since the last valuation measurement date.

Determinations In Connection With Offerings 

In connection with each offering of shares of our common stock, the Board of Directors or a committee thereof is required to make the determination that we are not selling shares of our common stock at a price below our then current net asset value at the time at which the sale is made, unless it is determined by the Board of Directors that such sale is in the best interests of our stockholders and such sale is otherwise approved by our stockholders. The Board of Directors considers the following factors, among others, in making such determination: 

- 

the net asset value of our common stock disclosed in the most recent periodic report we filed with the SEC; 

- 

our management’s assessment of whether any material change in the net asset value has occurred (including through the realization of net gains on the sale of our portfolio investments) from the period beginning on the date of the most recently disclosed net asset value to the period ending two days prior to the date of the sale of our common stock; and 

- 

the magnitude of the difference between (i) a value that our Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof has determined reflects the current net asset value of our common stock, which is generally based upon the net asset value of our common stock disclosed in the most recent periodic report that we filed with the SEC, as adjusted to reflect our management’s assessment of any material change in the net asset value of our common stock since the date of the most recently disclosed net asset value of our common stock, and (ii) the offering price of the shares of our common stock in the proposed offering. 

Importantly, this determination does not require that we calculate net asset value in connection with each offering of shares of our common stock, but instead it involves the determination by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof that we are not selling shares of our common stock at a price below the then current net asset value at the time at which the sale is made. 

Moreover, to the extent that there is a possibility that we may (i) issue shares of our common stock at a price below the then current net asset value of our common stock at the time at which the sale is made or (ii) trigger the undertaking (which we will provide to the SEC in a registration statement to which a prospectus will be a part) to suspend the offering of shares of our common stock pursuant to a prospectus if the net asset value fluctuates by certain amounts in certain circumstances until such prospectus is amended, the Board of Directors or a committee thereof will elect, in the case of clause (i) above, either to postpone the offering until such time that there is no longer the possibility of the occurrence of such, events or to undertake to determine net asset value within two days prior to any such sale to ensure that such sale will not be below our then current net asset value, and, in the case of clause (ii) above, to comply with such undertaking or to undertake to determine net asset value to ensure that such undertaking has not been triggered. 

These processes and procedures are part of our compliance policies and procedures. Records will be made contemporaneously with all determinations described in this section and these records will be maintained with other records we are required to maintain under the 1940 Act. 

