 ITEM 1. 

Business 

General 

Heartland Express, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Nevada, which owns all of the stock of Heartland Express, Inc. of Iowa, Gordon Trucking, Inc., (&#8220;GTI&#8221;), Heartland Express Services, Inc., Heartland Express Maintenance Services, Inc., and A &#38; M Express, Inc. We operate as one segment (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). 

We are a short-to-medium haul truckload carrier (predominately 500 miles or less per load) with corporate headquarters in North Liberty, Iowa. We primarily provide nationwide asset-based dry van truckload service for major shippers from Washington to Florida and New England to California. During 2013, through the GTI acquisition, we expanded our historical asset-based dry van service offerings with temperature-controlled truckload, and non-asset-based freight brokerage services. These additional service offerings are not significant to our operations. We generally earn revenue based on the number of miles per load delivered. We believe the keys to success are maintaining high levels of customer service and safety which are predicated on the availability of late-model equipment and experienced drivers. Management believes that our service standards, safety record, and equipment accessibility have made us a core carrier to many of our major customers, as well as allowed us to build solid, long-term relationships with customers and brand ourselves as an industry leader for on-time service. 

We were founded by Russell A. Gerdin in 1978 and became publicly traded in November 1986. Over the twenty-nine years from 1986 to 2015 , we have grown our revenues to $736.3 million &#32;from $21.6 million and our net income has increased to $73.1 million &#32;from $3.0 million. Much of this growth has been attributable to expanding service for existing customers, acquiring new customers, and continued expansion of our operating regions. More information regarding our total assets, revenues and profits for the past t 

hree years can be found in our &#8220;Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income&#8221; and &#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; that are included in this report. 

In addition to organic growth, we have completed six acquisitions since 1987 with the most recent and largest occurring in 2013, GTI. These six acquisitions have enabled us to solidify our position within existing regions, expand into new operating regions, and pursue new customer relationships in new markets. We will continue to evaluate acquisition candidates that meet our financial and operating objectives. 

Operations 

Our operations department focuses on the successful execution of customer expectations and providing consistent opportunities for the fleet of employee drivers and independent contractors, in conjunction with maximizing equipment utilization. These objectives require a combined effort of marketing, regional operations managers, and fleet management. 

Our customer service department is responsible for maintaining the continuity between the customer&#8217;s needs and our ability to meet those needs by communicating the customer&#8217;s expectations to the fleet management group. Collectively, the operations group (customer service and fleet management) and marketing are charged with developing customer relationships, ensuring service standards, coordinating proper freight-to-capacity balancing, trailer asset management, and daily tactical decisions to match customer demand with revenue equipment availability across our entire network. They assign orders to drivers based on well-defined criteria, such as United States Department of Transportation (the &#8220; DOT&#8221;) hours of service compliance, customer requirements, equipment utilization, driver &#8220; home time&#8221;, limiting non-revenue miles, and equipment maintenance needs. 

Fleet management employees are responsible for driver management and development. Additionally, they maximize the capacity that is available to meet the service needs of our customers. Their responsibilities include meeting the needs of the drivers within the standards that have been set by the organization and communicating the requirements of the customers to the drivers on each order to ensure successful execution. 

&#160; 

Serving the short-to-medium haul market (predominantly 500 miles or less per load) permits us to use primarily single rather than team drivers and dispatch most loads directly from origin to destination without an intermediate equipment change other than for driver scheduling purposes. Substantially all of our revenue is, and for the last three fiscal years has been, generated from within the United States ( &#8220; U.S.&#8221;) with immaterial revenue derived from Canada. We do not have nor have we during the last three fiscal years had any long-lived assets permanently located outside the U.S. 

We operate twenty terminal facilities throughout the U.S. in addition to our corporate headquarters in North Liberty, Iowa. These terminal locations are strategically located to concentrate on regional freight movements generally within a 500-mile radius of the terminals and are designed to meet the needs of significant customers in those regions while allowing our drivers to primarily stay within an operating region which provides them with more &#8220; home time. &#8221; &#32;&#32;This also allows us to better service and maintain revenue equipment at facilities we operate. 

Personnel at the individual terminal locations manage these operations based on the overall corporate operating and maintenance goals and objectives. We use a centralized computer network and regular communication to achieve enterprise-wide load coordination. 

We emphasize customer satisfaction through on-time performance, dependable late-model equipment, and consistent equipment availability to meet the volume requirements of our large customers. We also maintain a high trailer to tractor ratio, which facilitates the positioning of trailers at customer locations for convenient loading and unloading. Most of the freight we transport is non-perishable and predominantly does not require driver handling. These factors help minimize waiting time, which increases tractor utilization and promotes driver retention. 

During 2015, we were recognized with the following safety, environmental, operational, and technology recognitions: 

&#8226; 

SmartWay Excellence Award (2015) 

&#8226; 

BP's Driving Safety Standards (2015, 4th year in a row) 

&#8226; 

Journal of Commerce - Top 50 Trucking Companies in U.S. 

&#8226; 

Logistics Management Quest for Quality (2015) 

&#8226; 

IMTA Indiana Fleet Award (2014, OTR Fleet 5-10 million mile category) 

&#8226; 

Great West Safety Award (Illinois Safe Fleet - 1st Place, Category IV) 

&#8226; 

Computerworld - 100 Premier Technology Leaders (2016) 

&#8226; 

CIO 100 Award (2015) - Awarded by IDG's CIO Magazine 

Customers and Marketing 

We seek to transport freight that will complement traffic in our existing service areas and remain consistent with our focus on short-to-medium haul and regional distribution markets. Management believes that building lane density in our primary traffic lanes will minimize empty miles and enhance driver &#8220; home time. &#8221; 

We target customers with multiple, time-sensitive shipments, including those utilizing &#8220; just-in-time &#8221; &#32;manufacturing and inventory management. In seeking these customers, we have positioned our business as a provider of premium service at compensatory rates, rather than competing solely on the basis of price. Management believes our reputation for quality service, reliable equipment, and equipment availability makes us a core carrier for many of our customers. This past year we once again were recognized for customer service by several of our customers as a testament to our service standards. These awards include: 

&#8226; 

Fedex Express - Carrier of the Year (2015, our 5th consecutive year and 8th time in 9 years) 

&#8226; 

Fedex Express - Platinum Award for On-Time Service (2015, 99.92% on-time service) 

&#8226; 

Unilever - The Winning Quality and Service Award (2015) 

&#8226; 

Georgia Pacific - Consumer Products Dedicated Carrier of the Year (2015) and Carrier of the Year (2014) 

&#8226; 

United Sugars Outstanding Service &#38; Dedication (2014-2015) 

&#8226; 

Winegard - Truckload Carrier of the Year (2014) 

&#8226; 

Quaker/Gatorade - Carrier of the Year (Central Region, 2014) 

&#8226; 

Quaker/Gatorade - Carrier of the Year (Northwest Region, 2014) 

&#8226; 

Exel - Truckload EDI Compliance Award (2014) 

&#8226; 

Eastman - Outstanding Quality Performance (2014) 

Our primary customers include retailers and manufacturers. Our 25, 10, and 5 largest customers accounted for approximately 73% , 53% , and 36% &#32;of our operating revenues, respectively, in 2015 . During 2014 , our 25, 10, and 5 largest customers were approximately 68% , 47% , and 32% , of our operating revenues respectively. During 2013, our 25, 10, and 5 largest customers were approximately 68% , 47% , and 32% , of our operating revenues respectively. Our broad capacity network and customer base has allowed us to remain appropriately diversified and no &#32;customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our operating revenues in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013. 

Seasonality 

The nature of our primary traffic (appliances, automotive parts, consumer products, paper products, packaged foodstuffs, and retail goods) causes it to be distributed with relative uniformity throughout the year. However, seasonal variations associated with the winter holiday season have historically resulted in reduced shipments by several industries after the holiday season. In addition, our operating expenses historically have been higher during the winter months due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased colder weather-related equipment maintenance and repairs, and increased claims and costs attributed to higher accident frequency from harsh weather. 

Drivers, Independent Contractors, and Other Employees 

We rely on our workforce in achieving our business objectives. As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 4,200 &#32;people compared to approximately 4,500 &#32;people as of December 31, 2014 . We also contracted with independent contractors to provide and operate tractors which provides us additional revenue equipment capacity. Independent contractors own their own tractors and are responsible for all associated expenses, including financing costs, fuel, maintenance, insurance, and highway use taxes. We historically have operated a combined fleet of company and independent contractor tractors. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , independent contractors accounted for approximately 3.1% &#32;of our total miles compared to 3.6% &#32;in 2014 . 

&#160; 

Management&#8217;s strategy for both employee drivers and independent contractors is to (1) hire only safe and experienced drivers (the majority of driver positions hired require six to nine months of over-the-road experience); (2) promote retention with an industry leading compensation package, positive working conditions, and freight that requires little or no handling; and (3) minimize safety problems through careful screening, mandatory drug testing, continuous training, electronic logging system, and financial rewards for accident-free driving. We also seek to minimize turnover of our employee drivers by providing modern, comfortable equipment, and by regularly scheduling "home time." All drivers are generally compensated on the basis of miles driven including empty miles. This provides an incentive for us to minimize empty miles and at the same time does not penalize drivers for inefficiencies of operations that are beyond their control. 

We are not a party to a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that we have good relationships with our employees. 

Driver Compensation 

We implemented increases to our driver pay package effective in late 2014 and early 2015, raising driver compensation, on average, by approximately 13%. Our driver pay package includes future pay increases based on years of continued service with us, increased rates for accident-free miles of operation and detention pay to assist drivers with offsetting unproductive detention time. This compensation increase solidified our leadership position in terms of driver pay within the industry and rewards drivers for years of service and safe operating mileage benchmarks, which are critical to our operational and financial performance. Our comprehensive driver compensation program helps solidify us as an industry-leader who rewards drivers for years of service and meeting safe operating standards. We are committed to investing in our drivers and compensating them for safety as both are key to our operational and financial performance. 

Revenue Equipment 

Our revenue equipment program has three main components: (i) operate a relatively new fleet to improve fuel mileage, lower maintenance expense, increase reliability of service, and enhance our drivers' safety and comfort, (ii) depreciate new tractor revenue equipment on an accelerated basis, and (iii) avoid long-term purchase or trade-in agreements with manufacturers and debt financing. Complementing these components is our preventive maintenance program which is designed to minimize equipment downtime, facilitate customer service, and enhance trade value when revenue equipment is replaced. This strategy affords us the flexibility to take advantage of favorable market conditions as presented. 

All tractors are equipped with mobile communication systems. This technology allows for efficient communication with our drivers regarding freight and safety, and provides the ability to manage the needs of our customers based on real-time information on load status. Our mobile communication systems also allow us to obtain information regarding equipment for better planning and efficient maintenance time as well as information regarding driver performance. 

As of December 31, 2015 &#32;the average age of our tractor fleet was 1.25 &#32;years compared to 2 .0 years at December 31, 2014 . We have historically operated the majority of our tractors while under warranty to minimize repair and maintenance cost and reduce service interruptions caused by breakdowns. Our dry-van trailer fleet, excluding specialty equipment, consisted of 99.2% &#32;2012 and newer model years at December 31, 2015 . The average age of our trailer fleet was 4.6 &#32;years at December 31, 2015 &#32;compared to 4.4 &#32;years at December 31, 2014 . 

We obtain additional tractor capacity through the use of independent contractors who own their own tractor equipment. Independent contractors are responsible for the maintenance of their equipment and are periodically inspected by us for compliance with our operational and safety requirements and those of the DOT. We also gain limited tractor and trailer capacity through revenue equipment operating leases. As of December 31, 2015 , leased tractor equipment was 2.0% &#32;and leased trailer equipment was 0.7% &#32;of the total operating fleet. We are responsible for the maintenance of the equipment that we lease. We expect to transition away from the use of operating leases on tractor equipment and currently estimate that our operating tractor fleet, with the exception of independent contractors, will be 100% owned by the end of 2016. 

The Environmental Protection Agency ( &#8220; EPA &#8221; ) implemented engine requirements designed to reduce emissions over a period of time. These requirements have been implemented in multiple phases and required progressively more restrictive emission requirements in 2007 and 2010. Compliance with the new emission standards has resulted in a significant increase in the cost of new tractors and higher maintenance costs. As of December 31, 2015 , 99% &#32;of our owned tractor fleet was 2014 or newer model year engine technology. 

In addition, in August 2011, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (&#8220;NHTSA&#8221;) and EPA adopted a new rule that established the first-ever fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards for tractors. These standards apply to model years 2014 to 2018, which are required to achieve an approximate 20% reduction in fuel consumption by 2018 model year. Further, in February 2014 President Barack Obama announced that his administration will begin developing the next phase of tighter fuel efficiency standards for tractors, and directed the EPA and NHTSA to develop new fuel-efficiency and greenhouse gas standards in 2016. We already have some of the 2014 engine technology in our fleet and have experienced increased new tractor prices and additional parts and maintenance costs, which will continue as we upgrade our fleet and could adversely affect our operating results and profitability, particularly if such costs are not offset by potential fuel savings. We cannot predict, however, the extent to which our operations and productivity will be impacted. 

Fuel 

We purchase diesel fuel ("fuel") over-the-road through a network of fuel stops throughout the United States at which we have negotiated price discounts. In addition, bulk fuel sites are maintained at the majority of our twenty-one terminal locations. We strategically manage fuel purchase decisions based on pricing of over-the-road fuel prices, bulk fuel prices, and the routing of equipment. Both above ground and underground storage tanks are utilized at the bulk fuel sites. Exposure to environmental cleanup costs is minimized by periodic inspection and monitoring of the tanks. Increases in fuel prices can have an adverse effect on the results of operations. We have fuel surcharge agreements with most customers that enable us to pass through most long-term price increases. For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , fuel expense was $123.7 million , $219.3 million , and $172.3 million &#32;or 20.0% , 29.7% , and 36.7% &#32;respectively, of our total operating expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, fuel surcharge revenues were $91.8 million , $170.4 million , and $118.4 million , respectively. Department of Energy ( &#8220; DOE &#8221; ) average price of fuel decreased 29.5% &#32;in 2015 compared to 2014 and 2.8% &#32;in 2014 compared to 2013, which had a positive impact on our net fuel cost for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . Additionally, overall fuel efficiency has improved during 2015 due to adding more fuel-efficient late-model tractors to the operating fleet, which include various idle management technologies. Fuel consumed by empty and out-of-route miles and by truck engine idling time is not recoverable and therefore any increases or decreases in fuel prices related to empty and out-of-route miles and idling time will directly impact our operating results. 

Competition and Industry 

The truckload industry is highly competitive and fragmented with thousands of carriers of varying sizes. We compete with other truckload carriers; primarily those serving the regional, short-to-medium haul market. Logistics providers, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers, and private fleets provide additional competition but to a lesser extent. The industry is highly competitive based primarily upon freight rates, qualified drivers, service, and equipment availability. 

The demand for freight services was moderate in 2013 and strong in 2014 as demand for freight services generally outpaced industry capacity in 2014 and into early 2015. The demand for freight services generally slowed in the later months of 2015 compared to 2014 levels. Industry capacity continues to be hindered by an insufficient quantity of qualified drivers, which is further challenged by various regulations that reduce drivers' availability. An industry shortage of qualified drivers, in conjunction with reduced driver utilization, creates a favorable rate environment, but also a general industry trend toward increased driver wages to attract and retain qualified drivers. 

Safety and Risk Management 

We &#160; are committed to promoting and maintaining a safe operation. Our safety program is designed to minimize accidents and to conduct our business within governmental safety regulations. We communicate safety issues with drivers on a regular basis and emphasize safety through equipment specifications and regularly scheduled maintenance intervals. Our drivers are compensated and recognized for the achievement of a safe driving record. 

The primary risks associated with our business include cargo loss and physical damage, personal injury, property damage, and workers&#8217; compensation claims. We self-insure a portion of the exposure related to all of the aforementioned risks. Insurance coverage, including self-insurance retention levels, is evaluated on an annual basis. We actively participate in the settlement of each claim incurred. 

We act as a self-insurer for auto liability involving property damage, personal injury, or cargo based on defined insurance retention of $0.5 million &#32;or $2.0 million &#32;for any individual claim based on the insured party and circumstances of the loss event. Liabilities in excess of these amounts, for any individual claim, are covered by insurance up to $100.0 million . We retain any liability in excess of $100.0 million . We act as a self-insurer for workers&#8217; compensation liability of $0.5 million &#32;or $1.0 million &#32;for any individual claim based on the insured party and circumstances of the loss event. Liabilities in excess of this amount are covered by insurance. In addition, we maintain primary and excess coverage for employee health insurance and catastrophic physical damage coverage is carried to protect against natural disasters. Finally, we act as a self-insurer for any physical damage to our tractors and trailers. 

Regulation 

We are a common and contract motor carrier regulated by the DOT and various state and local agencies. The DOT generally governs matters such as safety requirements, registration to engage in motor carrier operations, insurance requirements, and periodic financial reporting. Our Company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment 

dimensions are also subject to U.S. regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. 

The DOT, through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (&#8220;FMCSA&#8221;), imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers, including rules that restrict driver hours-of-service. In December 2011, the FMCSA published its 2011 Hours-of-Service Final Rule (the "2011 Rule"). The 2011 Rule requires drivers to take 30-minute breaks after eight hours of consecutive driving and reduces the total number of hours a driver is permitted to work during each week from 82 hours to 70 hours. The 2011 Rule also provides that the 34-hour restart may only be used once per week and must include two rest periods between one a.m. and five a.m. (together, the &#8220;2011 Restart Restrictions&#8221;). These rule changes became effective in July 2013. We believe the 2011 Rule led to decreased productivity and caused some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers have needed supplemental training, computer programming has required modifications, additional drivers have been employed or engaged, additional equipment has been acquired, and shipping lanes have been reconfigured. 

In December 2014, the 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill was signed into law. Among other things, the legislation provided temporary relief from the 2011 Restart Restrictions, and essentially reverted back to the more straight forward 34-hour restart rule that was in effect before the 2011 Rule became effective. In 2016, Congress is expected to consider a study conducted by the FMCSA related to the 2011 Restart Restrictions. Congressional action based on the findings of the study could result in a reinstatement, continued suspension, or complete withdrawal of the 2011 Restart Restrictions. If the 2011 Restart Restrictions are reinstated, we may experience a decrease in production and loss of efficiency similar to that experienced during 2013 and 2014 when the 2011 Restart Restrictions were in effect. 

There are two methods of evaluating the safety and fitness of carriers. The first method is the application of a safety rating that is based on an onsite investigation and affects a carrier&#8217;s ability to operate in interstate commerce. We currently have a satisfactory DOT safety rating under this method, which is the highest available rating under the current safety rating scale. If we received a conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating, it could adversely affect our business, as some of our existing customer contracts require a satisfactory DOT safety rating. In January 2016, the FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking outlining a revised safety rating measurement system which would replace the current methodology. Under the proposed rules, the current three safety ratings of &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;conditional,&#8221; and &#8220;unsatisfactory&#8221; would be replaced with a single safety rating of &#8220;unfit.&#8221; Thus a carrier with no rating would be deemed fit. Moreover, data from roadside inspections and the results of all investigations would be used to determine a carrier&#8217;s fitness on an ongoing basis. This would replace the current methodology of determining a carrier&#8217;s fitness based solely on infrequent comprehensive onsite reviews. The proposed rules will undergo a 90-day public comment period, after which, a final rule could either be published or become subject to further legislative reviews and delays. Therefore, it&#8217;s uncertain if or when these proposed rules could take effect. However, if such rules were enacted and we received a rating of unfit, it would adversely affect our operations. 

In addition to the safety rating system, the FMCSA has adopted the Compliance Safety Accountability program (&#8220;CSA&#8221;) as an additional safety enforcement and compliance model that evaluates and ranks fleets on certain safety-related standards. The CSA program analyzes data from roadside inspections, moving violations, crash reports from the last two years, and investigation results. The data is organized into seven categories. Carriers are grouped by category with other carriers that have a similar number of safety events (e.g., crashes, inspections, or violations) and carriers are ranked and assigned a rating percentile to prioritize them for interventions if they are above a certain threshold. Currently, these scores do not have a direct impact on a carrier&#8217;s safety rating. However, the occurrence of unfavorable scores in one or more categories may (i) affect driver recruiting and retention by causing high-quality drivers to seek employment with other carriers, (ii) cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet safety rankings (iii), subject us to an increase in compliance reviews and roadside inspections, or (iv) cause us to incur greater than expected expenses in its attempts to improve unfavorable scores, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 

Under CSA, these scores were initially made available to the public in five of the seven categories. However, pursuant to the FAST Act, which was signed into law in December 2015, the FMCSA is required to remove from public view the previously available CSA scores while it reviews the reliability of the scoring system. During this period of review by the FMCSA, we will continue to have access to our own scores and will still be subject to intervention by the FMCSA when such scores are above the intervention thresholds. We will continue to monitor our CSA scores and compliance through results from roadside inspections and other data available to detect positive or negative trends in compliance issues on an ongoing basis. 

In 2011, the FMCSA issued new rules that would require nearly all carriers, including us, to install and use electronic on-board recording devices (&#8220;EOBRs,&#8221; now referred to as electronic logging devices, or &#8220;ELDs&#8221;) in their tractors to electronically monitor truck miles and enforce hours-of-service. These rules, however, were vacated by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in August 

2011. The final rule related to mandatory use of ELDs was published in December 2015, and requires the use of ELDs by nearly all carriers by December 10, 2017. Although we were not required to install ELDs in our tractors, we proactively installed ELDs on 100% of our over-the-road tractors in 2011. We believe such early adoption and implementation of ELDs among our fleet during 2011 has provided cost savings to us by implementing ELDs prior to any final rules by the FMCSA as well as positioning us for future rules mandating the use of ELDs. 

In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Department of Homeland Security (&#8220;DHS&#8221;) and other federal, state, and municipal authorities implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The U.S. Transportation Security Administration ("TSA") adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his or her license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers who are permitted to transport hazardous waste, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or allow trucks to sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased expenses to do so. While transporting hazardous materials subjects us to a wide array of regulations, the number of hazardous material shipments we make is insignificant relative to our total number of shipments. 

In November 2015, the FMCSA published its final rule related to driver coercion, which took effect on January 29, 2016. Under this rule, carriers, shippers, receivers, or transportation intermediaries that are found to have coerced drivers to violate certain FMCSA regulations (including hours-of-service rules) may be fined up to $16,000 for each offense. The FMCSA and certain legislators have proposed other rules that may be published as early as 2016, including (i) the use of speed limiting devices on heavy duty trucks to restrict maximum speeds, (ii) the creation of a national clearinghouse so employers and prospective employers could query to determine if current or prospective drivers have had any drug/alcohol positives or refusals, and (iii) an increase in the allowable length of twin trailers from 28 feet to 33 feet. If these rules take effect, they could result in a decrease in fleet production, driver availability, and freight tonnage available to full truckload carriers, all of which could adversely affect our business or operations. 

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Certain facilities have waste oil or fuel storage tanks and fueling islands. Management believes that its operations are in compliance with current laws and regulations and does not know of any existing condition that would cause non-compliance with applicable environmental regulations that would have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additionally, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on us. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to cleanup costs and liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. 

EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010. In 2010, an executive memorandum was signed directing the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (&#8220;NHTSA&#8221;) and the EPA to develop new, stricter fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks. In 2011, the NHTSA and the EPA adopted final rules that established the first-ever fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards for medium-and heavy-duty vehicles. These standards apply to model years 2014 to 2018, which are required to achieve an approximate 20 percent reduction in fuel consumption by 2018, and equates to approximately four gallons of fuel for every 100 miles traveled. In addition, in February 2014, President Obama announced that his administration will begin developing the next phase of tighter fuel efficiency standards for medium-and heavy-duty vehicles and directed the EPA and NHTSA to develop new fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas standards by March 31, 2016. In response, in June 2015, the EPA and NHTSA jointly proposed new, stricter standards that would apply to trailers beginning with model year 2018 and tractors beginning with model year 2021. After an extended comment period ending in October 2015, a final rule has not been published. If this rule or a similar rule was enacted, we believe these requirements could result in increased new tractor prices and additional parts and maintenance costs incurred to retrofit our tractors with technology to achieve compliance with such standards, which could adversely affect our operating results and profitability, particularly if such costs are not offset by potential fuel savings. We cannot predict, however, the extent to which our operations and productivity will be impacted. 

The California Air Resources Board ("CARB") also adopted emission control regulations that will be applicable to all heavy-duty tractors that pull 53-foot or longer box-type trailers within the State of California. The tractors and trailers subject to these CARB 

regulations must be either EPA SmartWay certified or equipped with low-rolling, resistance tires and retrofitted with SmartWay-approved aerodynamic technologies. Enforcement of these CARB regulations for model year 2011 equipment began in January 2010 and will be phased in over several years for older equipment. Federal and state lawmakers also are considering a variety of other climate-change proposals. Compliance with such regulations could increase the cost of new tractors and trailers, impair equipment productivity, and increase operating expenses. These effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the operating results that will be produced by the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. 

In order to reduce exhaust emissions, some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors may idle. These restrictions could force us to purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle or to alter its drivers' behavior, which could result in a decrease in productivity. 

We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to matters such as ergonomics. Our drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing. Additional changes in the laws and regulations governing our industry could affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to shippers. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Definitive Proxy Statements, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") are available to the public, free of charge, through the &#8220;Investors&#8221; section on our Internet website, at http://www.heartlandexpress.com . Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. You may also access and read our filings with the SEC without charge through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

