 Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

Hub Group, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated on March 8, 1995. We are one of North America&#8217;s leading asset-light freight transportation management companies. We offer comprehensive intermodal, truck brokerage and logistics services. Since our founding in 1971, we have grown to become one of the largest intermodal marketing companies (&#8220;IMC&#8221;) in the United States and one of the largest truck brokers. Through our network, we have the ability to arrange for the movement of freight in and out of every major city in the United States, Canada and Mexico. We utilize an asset-light strategy in order to minimize our investment in equipment and facilities and reduce our capital requirements. We arrange freight movement for our customers through transportation carriers and equipment providers. 

In April 2011, we acquired all of the capital stock of Exel Transportation Services, Inc. (&#8220;ETS&#8221;). ETS is now our wholly-owned subsidiary, operating independently and renamed Mode Transportation, LLC (&#8220;Mode LLC&#8221;). Mode LLC has approximately 197 agents, consisting of 99 IBOs, who sell services and operate the business throughout North America and 98 sales only agents. Mode also has a company managed operation and corporate offices in Dallas, TX, a temperature protected services division operated out of our Oak Brook, IL headquarters and corporate offices in Memphis, TN. 

We report two distinct business segments. The first segment is &#8220;Mode,&#8221; which includes the acquired Mode LLC business only. The second segment is &#8220;Hub,&#8221; which is all business other than Mode. Both segments offer intermodal, truck brokerage and logistics services. &#8220;Hub Group&#8221; includes both segments. 

Hub operates through a network of operating centers throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. Each operating center is strategically located in a market with a significant concentration of shipping customers and one or more railheads. Hub services a large and diversified customer base in a broad range of industries, including consumer products, retail and durable goods. 

Mode LLC markets and operates its freight transportation services primarily through its network of IBOs who enter into contracts with Mode LLC. Mode LLC&#8217;s company managed operation includes a business arranging for the transportation of raw materials and finished products for a major food producer and, to a lesser extent, other truck brokerage, intermodal and logistics operations. 

Services Provided 

Our transportation services for both the Hub and the Mode segments can be broadly placed into the following categories: 

Intermodal. As an IMC, we arrange for the movement of our customers&#8217; freight in containers and trailers, typically over long distances of 750 miles or more. We contract with railroads to provide transportation for the long-haul portion of the shipment and with local trucking companies, known as &#8220;drayage companies,&#8221; for pickup and delivery. As part of our intermodal services, we negotiate rail and drayage rates, electronically track shipments in transit, consolidate billing and handle claims for freight loss or damage on behalf of our customers. 

We use our network to access containers and trailers owned by leasing companies, railroads and steamship lines. We are able to track trailers and containers entering a service area and reuse that equipment to fulfill the customers&#8217; outbound shipping requirements. This effectively allows us to &#8220;capture&#8221; containers and trailers and keep them within our network. As of December 31, 2015, we owned a total of 23,422 53 foot private containers. In addition to the containers we own, we had exclusive access to approximately 5,628 rail-owned containers for our dedicated use on the Union Pacific (&#8220;UP&#8221;) and the Norfolk Southern (&#8220;NS&#8221;) rails as of December 31, 2015. 

During 2015, our subsidiary, Hub Group Trucking, Inc. (&#8220;Hub Group Trucking&#8221;) accounted for approximately 61% of Hub&#8217;s drayage needs by assisting us in providing reliable, cost effective intermodal services to our customers. As of December 31, 2015 Hub Group Trucking had terminals in Atlanta, Birmingham, Charlotte, Chattanooga, Chicago, Columbus (OH), Dallas, Hammond (IN), Harrisburg, Huntsville, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Kalamazoo, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Memphis, Nashville, Newark, Philadelphia, Portland (OR), Salt Lake City, Savannah, Seattle, St. Louis, and Stockton metro areas. As of December 31, 2015, Hub Group Trucking leased or owned 1,248 tractors and 447 trailers, employed 1,036 drivers and contracted with 1,727 owner-operators. 

&#160;

Truck Broke rage (Highway Services). We are one of the largest truck brokers in the United States, providing customers with another option for their transportation needs. We match the customers&#8217; needs with carriers&#8217; capacity to provide the most effective service and p rice combination. We have contracts with a substantial base of carriers allowing us to meet the varied needs of our customers. As part of the truck brokerage services, we negotiate rates, track shipments in transit and handle claims for freight loss and da mage on behalf of our customers. 

Logistics and Other Services . Hub&#8217;s logistics business operates under the name of Unyson Logistics. Unyson Logistics is comprised of a network of logistics professionals dedicated to developing, implementing and operating customized logistics solutions. Unyson Logistics offers a wide range of transportation management services and technology solutions including shipment optimization, load consolidation, mode selection, carrier management, load planning and execution and web-based shipment visibility. Unyson Logistics operates throughout North America, providing operations through its main operating location in St. Louis with additional support locations in the Boston, Chicago, Cleveland and Minneapolis metro areas. Certain Mode LLC agents provide logistics services. Our multi-modal transportation capabilities through both the Hub and Mode segments include small parcel, heavyweight, expedited, less-than-truckload, truckload, intermodal and railcar. 

Hub and Mode LLC Networks

Hub&#8217;s entire network is interactively connected through Hub&#8217;s proprietary Network Management System and Mode LLC&#8217;s network is connected through its third party transportation management system. This enables us to arrange for the movement of freight into and out of every major city in the United States, Canada and Mexico. 

In a typical intermodal transaction, the customer contacts one of Hub&#8217;s intermodal operating centers or a Mode LLC IBO to place an order. The operating center/IBO determines the price, obtains the necessary intermodal equipment, arranges for it to be delivered to the customer by a drayage company and, after the freight is loaded, arranges for the transportation of the container or trailer to the rail ramp. Relevant information is entered into our system by the assigned operating center/IBO. Our predictive track and trace technology then monitors the shipment to ensure that it arrives as scheduled and alerts the customer service personnel if there are service delays. The operating center/IBO then arranges for and confirms delivery by a drayage company at the destination. After unloading, the empty equipment is made available for reloading by the operating center/IBO for the delivery market. 

We provide truck brokerage services to our customers in a similar manner. In a typical truck brokerage transaction, the customer contacts one of Hub&#8217;s highway operating centers or a Mode LLC IBO to obtain a price quote for a particular freight movement. The customer then provides appropriate shipping information to the operating center/IBO. The operating center/IBO makes the delivery appointment and arranges with the appropriate carrier to pick up the freight. Once it receives confirmation that the freight has been picked up, the operating center/IBO monitors the movement of the freight until it reaches its destination and the delivery has been confirmed. If the carrier notifies us that after delivering the load it will need additional freight, we may notify other operating centers/IBOs. Although under no obligation to do so, those operating centers/IBOs may then attempt to secure additional freight for the carrier. 

Marketing and Customers 

We believe that fostering long-term customer relationships is critical to our success. Through these long-term relationships, we are able to better understand our customers&#8217; needs and tailor our transportation services to the specific customer, regardless of the customer&#8217;s size or volume. Hub currently has full-time marketing representatives at various operating centers, headquarters and sales offices with primary responsibility for servicing local, regional and national accounts. These sales representatives directly or indirectly report to our Executive Vice President, Sales. This model allows us to provide Hub customers with both a local marketing contact and access to our competitive rates as a result of being a large, multinational transportation service provider. Mode LLC IBOs and sales agents are located throughout North America and also enjoy local marketing advantages with access to the Hub network and carrier base. Mode LLC IBOs may act to both generate business and to perform the transportation brokerage services. Mode LLC sales agents are focused entirely on the sales effort and utilize an IBO to service the freight. 

The Mode LLC acquisition diversified Hub Group&#8217;s customer base with more small and medium sized customers, as Hub has traditionally focused, to a significant degree, on larger national accounts. Mode IBOs and sales agents are often able to devote more attention to smaller and medium sized shippers and develop long-term relationships with them. 

Our marketing efforts have produced a large, diverse customer base, with no one customer representing more than 10% of our total revenue in 2015 in either reporting segment. We service customers in a wide variety of industries, including consumer products, retail and durable goods. 

&#160;

&#160;

Management Information Systems 

A primary component of our business strategy is to invest in highly disciplined execution capabilities. These capabilities will allow us to proactively create solutions and provide clear and concise communication to better serve our customers. This investment is underway and capabilities in 2016 will include the ability to capture timely and accurate information from our internal and external drayage providers. In addition, we will continue to leverage mobile solutions to capture real time position information. These new solutions will include both SaaS based and cloud hosted solutions. While we implement new solutions we will continue to leverage our proprietary software running on a combination of platforms located at a secure offsite data center. We will continue to offer solutions to our customers and carriers at www.hubgroup.com. These solutions offer customers the ability to receive pricing information, place orders, track shipments, and review historical shipment information. In addition, drayage providers can provide status information, view paperwork requirements and facilitate invoicing. 

Unyson Logistics is known in the industry for solving complex problems with sophisticated solutions using world class processes and technology. In order to continue to meet and exceed the expectations of current and future customers we have invested in best in class transportation management software that enables complex supply chain planning and logistics management. We were successful in our goal to lay down the foundation and transition 2 of our existing customers to this new platform in 2015. We are now ready to on-board new customers in 2016 as well as continue the transition of current customers over the next 2-3 years. 

Mode LLC utilizes a dynamic transportation management platform that integrates best in class third party technologies to manage its business. This platform includes an execution system that provides multi-modal solutions, visibility to status of shipments, facilitation of customer billing, and a robust portal that allows exchange of information about loads, capacity, and event status information between transportation providers and our end customers. Additionally Mode LLC&#8217;s platform consists of components that allow for optimization of our customer&#8217;s order process, management of our diverse carrier base, and robust analytics and business intelligence solutions that allow our customers to better understand outcomes and opportunities within their supply chain. Throughout our platform we leverage flexible integrations to provide connectivity between our technology components along with available touch points across our thousands of trading partners ranging from customers to major rail carriers to numerous trucking partners. This provides a robust and scalable technological solution that can meet the needs of a growing transportation network.

&#160;

Relationship with Railroads 

A key element of our business strategy is to strengthen our close working relationship with the major intermodal railroads in the United States. Due to our size and relative importance, some railroads have dedicated support personnel to focus on our day-to-day service requirements. On a regular basis, our senior executives and each of the railroads meet to discuss major strategic issues concerning intermodal transportation. 

We have relationships with each of the following major railroads: 

&#160;

Burlington Northern Santa Fe

&#160;

Florida East Coast

Canadian National

&#160;

Kansas City Southern

Canadian Pacific

&#160;

Norfolk Southern

CSX

&#160;

Union Pacific

Ferromex

&#160;

&#160;

We also have relationships with each of the following major service providers: APL, CMA CGM (America) Inc., COSCO (China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company), Domestic Intermodal America, Evergreen Shipping Agency (America) Corp., Express System Intermodal Inc., Florens Container Services, Hamburg Sud Group, Hanjin Shipping, Hapag-Lloyd (America) Inc., Hyundai Merchant Marine, K-Line America, Maersk Sea-Land, Mediterranean Shipping Company, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (America) Inc., NYK (Nippon Usen Kaisha) Line, Triton Overseas Transport, Westwood Shipping Lines, Yang Ming (America) Corp., and Zim Integrated Shipping Services. 

Transportation rates are market driven. We sometimes negotiate with the railroads or other major service providers on a route or customer specific basis. Consistent with industry practice, some of the rates we negotiate are special commodity quotations (&#8220;SCQs&#8221;), which provide discounts from published price lists based on competitive market factors and are designed by the railroads or major service providers to attract new business or to retain existing business. SCQ rates are generally issued for the account of a single IMC. SCQ rates apply to specific customers in specified shipping lanes for a specific period of time, usually up to 12 months. 

&#160;

Relationship with Drayage Companies 

Hub has a &#8220;Quality Drayage Program,&#8221; under which participants commit to provide high quality drayage service along with clean and safe equipment, maintain a defined on-time performance level and follow specified procedures designed to minimize freight loss and damage. We negotiate drayage rates for transportation between specific origin and destination points. 

We also provide drayage services with our own drayage operations, which we operate through our subsidiary Hub Group Trucking. Our drayage operations employ their own drivers and also contract with owner-operators who supply their own trucks. 

Relationship with Trucking Companies 

Our truck brokerage operation has a large number of active trucking companies that we use to transport freight. The Hub operating centers and Mode IBOs deal daily with these carriers on an operational level. Our corporate headquarters handles the administrative and regulatory aspects of the trucking company relationship. Our relationships with these trucking companies are important since these relationships determine pricing, load coverage and overall service. 

Risk Management and Insurance 

We require all drayage companies participating in Hub&#8217;s Quality Drayage Program to carry at least $1.0 million in general liability insurance, $1.0 million in truckman&#8217;s auto liability insurance and a minimum of $100,000 in cargo insurance. Railroads, which are self-insured, provide limited cargo protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipment. To cover freight loss or damage when a carrier&#8217;s liability cannot be established or a carrier&#8217;s insurance is insufficient to cover the claim, we carry our own cargo insurance with a limit of $1.0 million per container or trailer and a limit of $20.0 million in the aggregate. We also carry general liability insurance with limits of $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million in the aggregate with a companion $45.0 million umbrella policy on this general liability insurance. 

We maintain separate insurance policies to cover potential exposure from our company-owned drayage operations. We carry commercial general liability insurance with a limit of $1.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $2.0 million policy aggregate limit, and trucker&#8217;s automobile liability insurance with a limit of $1.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we have an umbrella excess liability policy with a limit of $34.0 million. We also maintain motor truck cargo liability insurance with a limit of $1.0 million per occurrence. 

Government Regulation 

The company and various subsidiaries, including Mode LLC, are licensed by the Department of Transportation as brokers in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. To the extent that the Hub operating centers and Mode LLC IBOs perform truck brokerage services, they do so under these licenses. The Department of Transportation prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including a $75,000 surety bond that we have posted. In addition, Hub and Mode each have customs bonds. To date, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, the transportation industry is subject to legislative or regulatory changes that can affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of providing, transportation services. 

Custom-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism 

We achieved Custom-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) certification in 2013 and validation in 2014. C-TPAT is a voluntary supply chain security program led by U.S. Customs and Border Protection focused on improving the security of private companies&#8217; supply chains with respect to terrorism. Companies who achieve C-TPAT certification must have a documented process for determining and alleviating risks throughout their international supply chain. This certification allows us to be considered low risk, resulting in expedited processing of our customers&#8217; cargo, including fewer customs examinations. 

Competition 

The transportation services industry is highly competitive. We compete against other IMCs, as well as logistics companies, third party brokers, trucking companies and railroads that market their own intermodal services. Several larger trucking companies have entered into agreements with railroads to market intermodal services nationwide. Competition is based primarily on freight rates, quality of service, reliability, transit time and scope of operations. Several transportation service companies and trucking companies, and all of the major railroads, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. 

&#160;

General 

Employees: As of December 31, 2015, Hub Group had 2,633 employees consisting of 2,516 Hub employees, or 1,480 employees excluding drivers, and 117 Mode LLC employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements and consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. 

As of December 31, 2015, Mode LLC had 99 IBOs and 98 sales only agents. Nearly all of the sales-only agents and IBOs are under contract with Mode LLC. 

Other: No material portion of our operations is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the federal government. Our business is seasonal to the extent that certain customer groups, such as retail, are seasonal. 

Periodic Reports 

Our annual report to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, are available free of charge on our website at www.hubgroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports to the SEC. Information on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains our annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Any materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC may also be read and/or copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

&#160;

&#160;

