 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS. 

OVERVIEW 

Huron is a global professional services firm focused on assisting clients with their most complex business issues by delivering high-value, quality solutions to support their long-term strategic objectives. Huron specializes in serving clients in the healthcare, higher education, life sciences, and commercial sectors as these organizations face significant transformational change and regulatory or economic pressures in dynamic market environments. With its deep industry and technical expertise, Huron provides advisory, consulting, technology, and analytic solutions to deliver sustainable and measurable results. 

Since our founding in 2002, we have grown significantly; we have increased the number of full-time employees from 249 in 2002 to 2,671 &#32;as of December 31, 2015 , through hiring and acquisitions of complementary and strategic businesses. Our recent acquisitions include Studer Group, Rittman Mead India, and Cloud62 in 2015; Threshold Consulting, Vonlay, and The Frankel Group in 2014; and Blue Stone International in 2013. 

We have hired experienced professionals, many of whom are recognized as experts in their fields, from such organizations as the four largest public accounting firms, referred to as the Big Four, and other consulting firms. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 124 &#32;client-serving managing directors. These individuals have an average of 26 years of business experience. 

Our headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois; other domestic and international offices include Atlanta, Georgia; Boston, Massachusetts; Buffalo, New York; Dallas, Texas; Detroit, Michigan; Houston, Texas; Madison, Wisconsin; New York City, New York; Pensacola, Florida; Portland, Oregon; San Francisco, California; Washington, D.C.; Bangalore, India; and Toronto, Canada. 

2015 Acquisitions 

Studer Group 

On February 12, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Studer Holdings, Inc. ("Studer Group"), a premier professional services firm that assists healthcare providers achieve cultural transformation to deliver and sustain improvement in clinical outcomes and financial results. The acquisition leverages the Huron Healthcare segment&#8217;s performance improvement and clinical transformation capabilities with Studer Group&#8217;s Evidence-Based Leadership SM framework to provide leadership and cultural transformation expertise for healthcare provider clients. We completed the acquisition in exchange for consideration with a fair value of approximately $325.2 million, consisting of $323.2 million in cash and $2.2 million in Huron common stock, less the receipt of a net working capital adjustment payment of $0.2 million. The results of operations of Studer Group have been included in our consolidated financial statements and the segment operating results of Huron 

Healthcare from the date of acquisition. See Note 4 &#8220;Acquisitions&#8221; within our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Studer Group acquisition. 

Rittman Mead India 

Effective July 1, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Rittman Mead Consulting Private Limited ("Rittman Mead India"), the India affiliate of Rittman Mead Consulting Ltd. Rittman Mead India is a data and analytics consulting firm that specializes in the implementation of enterprise performance management and analytics systems. The results of operations of Rittman Mead India have been included in our consolidated financial statements and the segment operating results of Huron Business Advisory from the date of acquisition. 

Cloud62 

On October 1, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Cloud62, Inc., a Buffalo, New York-based provider of business consulting services specializing in Salesforce.com implementations and related cloud-based applications. The results of operations of Cloud62 have been included in our consolidated financial statements and the segment operating results of Huron Business Advisory from the date of acquisition. 

See Note 4 "Acquisitions" within our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our recent acquisitions. 

2015 Divestiture 

Huron Legal 

On December 31, 2015, we completed our divestiture of the Huron Legal segment to Consilio, Inc. for net proceeds of $110.1 million . Huron Legal provides eDiscovery services, consulting services and contract management services related to law department management, information governance and compliance, legal discovery, litigation management, and legal analytics to legal departments, law firms and companies in connection with their eDiscovery, law department operations and contract and litigation management needs. All of the operations of our Huron Legal segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and unless indicated otherwise, the information included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K relates to our continuing operations. See Note 3 &#8220;Discontinued Operations&#8221; within our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Huron Legal divestiture. 

OUR SERVICES 

We provide professional services through four operating segments: Huron Healthcare, Huron Education and Life Sciences, Huron Business Advisory and All Other. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we derived 64% , 24% , and 12% &#32;of our revenues from Huron Healthcare, Huron Education and Life Sciences, and Huron Business Advisory, respectively. 

For further financial information on our segment results, see Part II&#8212;Item 7. "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 18 &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; within the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 

Huron Healthcare 

Our Huron Healthcare segment provides strategic advisory, consulting, and technology solutions to national and regional hospitals and integrated health systems, academic medical centers, community hospitals, and physician practices. We deliver solutions to address challenges in the rapidly evolving healthcare environment to improve quality and patient outcomes, increase revenue, reduce expenses, and enhance physician, patient, and employee satisfaction across the healthcare enterprise. 

This segment&#8217;s primary service lines include: 

&#8226; 

Revenue cycle solutions. &#32;Our revenue cycle solutions are designed to optimize performance and deliver sustainable revenue cycle improvement and a predictable revenue stream, while increasing patient, physician, and staff satisfaction. We work with our clients to improve clinical documentation so that it fully and accurately reflects the severity of illness, complexity of care, and resources consumed. Improved physician documentation results in greater coding specificity, improved case mix index, and appropriate reimbursement for utilized resources. Our technology-enabled solutions help clients optimize investments in financial and support systems, and integrate information with work flow to enable high performance organizations. 

&#8226; 

Cost and clinical solutions. &#32; Our cost and clinical solutions focus on providing a systematic and comprehensive approach to help clients reduce costs across the enterprise while optimizing clinical performance, improving quality and outcomes, and achieving staff alignment across the continuum of care. We help clients improve clinical and administrative operations across inpatient, perioperative, emergency, and outpatient settings as well as physician practices through strategic advisory, consulting, and technology-enabled services. We help clients establish operational and data-enabled clinical transformation, scale and integration improvements, and operational excellence. By fully aligning goals and incentives, we help clients drive efficiency and quality across the clinical and administrative enterprises to improve quality outcomes, reduce costs, and improve patient and staff satisfaction. 

&#8226; 

Studer Group. &#32;Studer Group &#174; works with healthcare organizations primarily in the United States and Canada to build a sustainable culture that promotes accountability and fosters innovation. Through the use of coaching partnerships, software accelerators, and leadership conferences, Studer Group partners with organizations to help them achieve and sustain exceptional improvement in clinical outcomes and financial results. 

Huron Education and Life Sciences 

Our Huron Education and Life Sciences segment provides management consulting services and technology solutions to the higher education, academic medical center, pharmaceutical and medical device, and research industries. We work with our clients to develop and implement strategic priorities, performance improvement, technology, and research enterprise solutions to help them address challenges relating to financial management, strategy, operational and organizational effectiveness, research administration, and regulatory compliance. 

This segment&#8217;s primary service lines include: 

&#8226; 

Higher Education. Our higher education professionals have extensive experience working with colleges and universities on complex strategic, financial, operational, and technology issues. Our strategy and operations solutions assist institutions of higher education align their missions and strategic priorities with their operations to improve quality and reduce costs across the organization. Our strategy and operations solutions include enrollment management, student lifecycle management, financial management, and performance improvement services. To support an institution's technology, data, and analytics strategy, our technology professionals provide services in enterprise systems planning, design and implementation, IT strategy, and governance and research software products and implementation services. Our research solutions, including operational, compliance, and cost reimbursement, assist our clients as they face immense regulatory and cost and reimbursement pressure in their research organizations. 

&#8226; 

Life Sciences. Our Life Sciences practice brings together a highly skilled team of professionals focused on helping companies, from large pharmaceuticals to newly formed biotechs, to drive measurable value and comply with government regulations. We provide clients with integrated solutions across the life sciences value chain in the areas of corporate and financial strategy, compliance and operations, reimbursement and access strategy, commercial segmentation, lifecycle management and R&#38;D and product strategy. We assist companies in complying with government regulations including fair market value analysis, litigation and investigations, and auditing and monitoring. In addition, we advise companies on commercial contracting strategies, government pricing and transparency reporting, data strategy and analytics, and overall business process improvement. 

Huron Business Advisory 

Our Huron Business Advisory segment provides services to the C-suite of middle market and large organizations, lending institutions, law firms, investment banks, and private equity firms. We assist clients in a broad range of industries and across the spectrum from healthy, well-capitalized companies to organizations in transition, and to creditors, owners, and other key constituents. 

This segment&#8217;s primary service lines include: 

&#8226; 

Business Advisory. &#32;Our Business Advisory practice resolves complex business issues and enhances client enterprise value through a suite of services including capital advisory, transaction advisory, operational improvement, restructuring and turnaround, valuation, and dispute advisory. We improve operations or capital structures for businesses performing at less than optimal levels, assess the short-term and long-term prospects of potential acquisition and divestiture opportunities, and provide independent valuation and consulting services to assist clients in making informed decisions for transaction, tax, or litigation purposes. Securities transactions are provided by our registered broker-dealer Huron Transaction Advisory LLC, a member of FINRA. 

&#8226; 

Enterprise Performance Management and Analytics. &#32;Our Enterprise Performance Management and Analytics professionals deliver solutions that enable organizations to manage and optimize their financial performance, operational efficiency, and client experience. With expertise in full-service enterprise performance management (EPM), business analytics, customer relationship management (CRM), and big data professional services, Huron's global presence and remote delivery capabilities help clients drive results and gain a competitive advantage. Our comprehensive offerings include organizational improvements and technology consulting, leveraging both cloud and on-premise configurations. Huron is a Platinum level member of the Oracle PartnerNetwork (OPN) and a Silver level partner of the Salesforce.com partner network. 

All Other 

Our All Other segment consists of any line of business not managed by our other three operating segments. These businesses include our public sector consulting practice and our foreign consulting operations based in the Middle East, both of which we wound down in 2015. 

OUR CLIENTS AND INDUSTRIES 

We provide consulting services to a wide variety of both financially sound and distressed organizations, including healthcare organizations, leading academic institutions, Fortune 500 companies, and governmental entities. We have worked with more than 450 health systems, hospitals, and academic medical centers and more than 400 universities and research institutions. In 2015 , we served over 800 clients, including over 200 new clients. Our top ten clients represented approximately 29.9%, 31.5%, and 36.7% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, with no single client accounting for more than 10% of our revenues during those years. 

Our clients are in a broad array of industries, including healthcare, education, professional services, pharmaceutical, technology, transportation services, telecommunications, financial services, electronics, consumer products, governmental, retail, mining, oil and gas, energy and utilities, and industrial manufacturing. 

EMPLOYEES 

Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and develop highly talented professionals by creating a work environment where both employees and teams thrive and individuals are rewarded not only for their own contributions but also for the success of our organization as a whole. To accomplish these goals and recognize high performance, we have developed comprehensive employee programs incorporating training and development opportunities, competitive compensation, performance management, benefits and wellness, as well as corporate social responsibility, facilitated through our Huron Helping Hands program and the diversity and inclusion council. 

Our employee population is divided into two groups; client-serving and service and support. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 2,671 &#32;full-time employees, including 124 &#32;client-serving managing directors. Our client-serving employees serve our clients as critical business advisors in support of transforming their business. Our managing directors are the key drivers of our business. They work externally to serve clients as advisors and engagement team leaders, originate revenue by developing new and existing client relationships, and enhance our reputation. Internally they create our intellectual capital and develop our people. Our senior directors, directors, and managers manage day-to-day client relationships and oversee the delivery and quality of our work product. Our associates and analysts gather and organize data, conduct detailed analyses, and prepare presentations that synthesize and distill information to support recommendations we deliver to clients. Our service and support employees include our senior management team as well as professionals who provide sales support, methodology creation, software development, and corporate functions consisting of our facilities, finance and accounting, human resources, information technology, legal, and marketing teams. These employees provide strategic direction and support that enables the success of our client-serving employees. At December 31, 2015, this population contained 18 managing directors, executives, and corporate vice presidents. 

In addition to our full-time employees, we engage contractors who supplement our full-time client-serving employees on an as-needed basis by providing highly unique skill sets that are not required to be staffed on a full-time basis. 

Supporting our employees&#8217; career progression is critical to our retention success. We provide this support through established training and development programs. We provide structured orientation and training programs for new campus hires and experienced employees to enable a more effective assimilation into the Company. &#8220;Milestone&#8221; programs are development programs offered to recently promoted employees to support their transition to a new role with greater responsibility. In addition to these milestone programs, we offer a variety of leadership development programs for those we deem capable of taking on broader roles in the organization at the senior director and managing director level. We also provide a variety of continuing education opportunities to all our employees, including formal classroom environments, on-line courses, and webinars to further develop employees&#8217; technical knowledge and ability to work cooperatively and coach others. We encourage our employees to enhance their professional skills through outside courses that certify their technical skills and to pursue certain advanced degrees. Employees are assigned internal performance coaches to help them establish expectations that are reviewed quarterly, including identifying opportunities for professional development, formal training, and technical skill certifications. 

Our compensation philosophy focuses on rewarding and retaining our high performing employees. To accomplish this, we offer employees a competitive base salary, performance incentives, and competitive benefits. 

Our incentive compensation plan is designed to recognize and reward performance of both the organization and individuals and to ensure we properly recognize and retain our top performers. We take both practice and Company financial performance into consideration in the determination of bonus pool funding. At the practice level, the annual bonus pool is funded based on achievement of its annual financial goals. The board of directors then reviews and approves the total incentive compensation pool for all practices in the context of the Company&#8217;s overall financial performance. Individual bonus awards are based on the practice&#8217;s financial performance, individual bonus targets, and the individual&#8217;s performance as evaluated through our performance management process. The intent of the incentive compensation plan is to differentiate rewards based on individual performance, ensuring that our top performers for the year receive incentives that are commensurate with their contributions, enabling us to retain them and continue to provide our clients with exceptional 

service. The incentive compensation plan for our named executive officers is funded based on a blend of achievement of financial goals and strategic initiatives. 

Managing directors&#8217; individual compensation levels, including base salary and target incentive awards, are set to align with the value of their expected contributions to the organization. As the key drivers of the organization&#8217;s success, their compensation is designed to include equity awards as a core component. The use of equity is intended to encourage retention, align the interests of our managing directors with shareholders, and help managing directors build wealth over their career at Huron through annual grants as well as stock price appreciation. 

Our benefit and wellness programs are designed to be both comprehensive and tailored to our employee population. One specific benefit we have created is a travel reward to recognize the significant travel commitment of our workforce. Our wellness benefits are aimed at supporting our employees in maintaining a healthy lifestyle which is beneficial to the employee and the Company, given the demanding nature of the work. Through these unique benefits, as well as our health and welfare plans, retirement benefits, stock purchase plan, and other standard benefit programs, we provide a core sense of security to our employees. 

Our corporate social responsibility efforts are designed to support an individual&#8217;s charitable interests while also providing a venue for our employees to come together to make an impact in the communities in which we live and work. In addition, the diversity and inclusion council supports the needs of our growing employee population through employee resource groups and corporate-wide educational efforts to ensure we are fostering a welcoming and nurturing environment for all employees. 

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING 

Our business development and marketing activities are aimed at cultivating relationships, driving demand, generating leads and building a strong brand reputation with hospital, health system, and university administrators, and the offices of the C-suite of middle market and large corporate organizations. We believe that excellent service delivery to clients is critical to building and maintaining relationships and our brand reputation, and we emphasize the importance of client service to all of our employees. 

Currently, we generate most of our new business opportunities through relationships that our managing directors have with individuals working in hospitals and health systems, academic institutions, and corporations. We also view cross-selling as a key component in building our business. Often, the client relationship of a managing director in one area leads to opportunities in another area. All of our managing directors understand their role in ongoing relationship and business development, which is reinforced through our compensation and incentive programs. We actively seek to identify new business opportunities, and frequently receive referrals and repeat business from past and current clients. In addition, to complement the business development efforts of our managing directors, we have dedicated business development professionals who are focused exclusively on developing client relationships and generating new business. 

COMPETITION 

The consulting services industry is extremely competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. The industry includes a large number of participants with a variety of skills and industry expertise, including other strategy, business operations, technology, and financial consulting firms, general management consulting firms, the consulting practices of major accounting firms, technical and economic advisory firms, regional and specialty consulting firms, and the internal professional resources of organizations. We compete with a large number of service and technology providers in all of our segments. Our competitors often vary, depending on the particular practice area. We expect to continue to face competition from new entrants. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include reputation, the ability to attract and retain top talent, and the capacity to manage engagements effectively to drive high value to clients. There is also competition on price, although to a lesser extent due to the criticality of the issues that many of our services address. Our competitors may have a greater geographic footprint, a broader international presence, and more resources than we do, but we believe that our industry experience and reputation, ability to deliver meaningful client results, and balanced portfolio of services enable us to compete favorably in the consulting marketplace. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website, www.huronconsultinggroup.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

