 ITEM 1 &#150; BUSINESS 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the section regarding Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as &#147;expects,&#148; &#147;anticipates,&#148; &#147;intends,&#148; &#147;plans,&#148; &#147;believes,&#148; &#147;seeks,&#148; &#147;estimates&#148; and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not deemed to represent an all-inclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements as denoted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, statements concerning future matters are forward-looking statements. 

Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the good faith judgment of our Management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, without limitation, those specifically addressed under the heading &#147;Risks Factors&#148; below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). You can read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 

We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made throughout the entirety of this annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes the accounts of Mantra Venture Group Ltd., a Nevada corporation (&#147;Mantra&#148;), together with its subsidiaries, as follows, collectively referred to as &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;: Mantra Energy Alternatives Ltd., a British Columbia corporation, Mantra Hong Kong Ltd., a Hong Kong corporation, Mantra NextGen Power Inc., a British Columbia corporation, Mantra Energy Alternatives UK Ltd.., a United Kingdom corporation, and Climate ESCO Ltd., A British Columbia corporation. All the subsidiaries are direct subsidiaries of Mantra and are wholly-owned with the exception of Climate ESCO Ltd., which is 65% owned and Mantra Energy Alternatives Ltd., which is 88% owned.

Business Overview 

&#160;

We were incorporated in Nevada on January 22, 2007. On December 8, 2008 we continued our corporate jurisdiction out of the state of Nevada and into the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Our principal offices are located at #562 &#150; 800 15355 24 th Avenue, Surrey, British Columbia, Canada, V4A 2H9. Our telephone number is (604) 560-1503. Our fiscal year end is May 31.

&#160;

We are building a portfolio of companies and technologies that mitigate negative environmental and health consequences that arise from the production of energy and the consumption of resources.

&#160;

Our mission is to develop and commercialize alternative energy technologies and services to enable the sustainable consumption, production and management of resources on residential, commercial and industrial scales. We plan to develop or acquire technologies and services which include electrical power system monitoring technology, wind farm electricity generation, online retail of environmental sustainability solutions through a carbon reduction marketplace, and media solutions to promote awareness of corporate actions that support the environment. To carry out our business strategy we intend to acquire or license from third parties technologies that require further development before they can be brought to market. We also intend to develop such technologies ourselves, and we anticipate that to complete commercialization of some technologies we will enter into joint ventures, partnerships, or other strategic relationships with third parties who have expertise that we may require. We also plan to enter into formal relationships with consultants, contractors, retailers and manufacturers who specialize in the areas of environmental sustainability in order to carry out our online retail strategy.

We have acquired and own a process for the electro-reduction of carbon dioxide (&#147;ERC&#148;) and have the exclusive world license for a mixed-reactant fuel cell (&#147;MRFC&#148;). We are developing these technologies toward commercial applications.

&#160;

In the past we have contracted out our development work to various laboratories. As of July 1, 2014, we have been carrying out research and development on these technologies in our own internal laboratory with our own staff in Vancouver, BC. These activities include: experimentation to improve the process performance; process and economic modeling to optimize the costs of a commercial system; design and simulation of pilot systems for technology demonstration and validation; business development activities such as the establishment of strategic and technology development partners; and the design and fabrication of laboratory prototypes, among others.

&#160;

We currently carry on our business through our subsidiary, Mantra Energy Alternatives Ltd. (&#147;MEA&#148;), through which we identify, acquire, develop and market technologies related to alternative energy production and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and resource consumption. We also have a number of inactive subsidiaries, which we plan to engage in various businesses in the future.

&#160;

Since our inception, we have incurred operational losses and we have completed several rounds of financing to fund our operations.

&#160;

On May 25, 2015, we released a demonstration video of our MRFC technology. This video showcased the fuel cell powering an electric scooter, and was designed to demonstrate the capabilities of the technology to strategic partners and investors.

Recent Business and Corporate Developments 

&#160;

On November 3, 2015, our Board of Directors approved the an amendment to our Notice of Articles to increase the authorized number of our shares of common stock from 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.00001 to 275,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.00001 per share .

&#160;

On November 4, 2015, subsequent to the approval by our Board of Directors of the holder of the majority of the outstanding shares of our corporation entitled to vote gave us written consent for the amendment to our Notice of Articles. The increase in our authorized capital subsequently became effective with the filing of the amendment to our Notice of Articles on February 2, 2016.

&#160;

On March 10, 2016, we entered into a securities purchase agreement pursuant to which we issued to one investor a convertible note in the principal amount of up to $166,666 net of an original issuance discount of 8%. The note bears interest at 10% per annum and is convertible into common shares of our Company at a 65% discount to the lowest trading price during the previous 20 trading days to the date of conversion; or a 65% discount to the lowest trading price during the previous 20 trading days before the date the note was executed. As at the date of this report the note holder has advanced $81,666 in consideration pursuant to the convertible note.

On March 14, 2016, we entered into a consulting agreement to acquire business planning, and investor and public relations services. Pursuant to the agreement, we will pay the consultant $10,000 per month and issue 550,000 shares per month for a period of three months. As at the date of this report the provision of services under the agreement has not begun and the compensation shares have not been issued.

On February 2, 2016, we altered our authorized share capital to increase the number of authorized common shares from 100,000,000 common shares with a par value of $0.00001, to 275,000,000 common shares with a par value of $0.00001.

Collaboration with Alstom (Switzerland) Ltd. 

On June 24, 2013, we entered into an agreement with Alstom (Switzerland) Ltd. concerning the joint research and development projects relating to (1) a pilot plant for the conversion of carbon dioxide to formate at a Lafarge cement plant (the &#147;Lafarge pilot project&#148;); and (2) the development of processes for the conversion of carbon dioxide to other valuable chemicals.

&#160;

Pursuant to the agreement with Alstom, MEA and Alstom will co-operate in one or more research and development projects related to MEA&#146;s ERC technology. Prospective projects will be associated with the development of technologies and processes for the conversion of CO 2 to chemical products and the investigation of the feasibility of scale-up and commercialization of these processes. Prior to undertaking any research and development project under the agreement, MEA and Alstom will mutually agree to special terms and conditions governing the purpose, aims and objectives of any such project, including technical descriptions, the designation of work phases and project managers, and the allocation of responsibilities and costs between the parties. The commencement of any work phase for any project will be at the sole discretion of Alstom. 

Intellectual Property Management 

MEA and Alstom also will establish an intellectual property committee to oversee and manage all intellectual property issues and activities resulting from the agreement, including the protection of any new intellectual property. Each party will have exclusive right and discretion to prosecute all patents and patent applications resulting from its work on any project. The parties will jointly prosecute any intellectual property in jointly-owned results. Alstom will have the additional option under the agreement to acquire an exclusive license to intellectual property created by MEA under the agreement, and to a license to MEA&#146;s ERC technology as may be reasonably required to exploit intellectual property assumed by Alstom. The agreement does not affect ownership of any underlying intellectual property of either party.

Lafarge Pilot Project and Carbon Dioxide to Alternative Products &#150; Project Status 

The agreement with Alstom will remain valid for five years or the completion of the last active project, whichever last occurs, and may be extended at any time by the written agreement of both parties. The first joint research and development project under the agreement is the Lafarge pilot project, which plans for the design, construction, and installation of a pilot plant for the conversion of 100 kg/day carbon dioxide to formate, followed by a commercialization scale-up study. Alstom&#146;s contribution to the Lafarge pilot plant project will be approximately CDN$250,000 for in-kind services.

A second integrated research and development project will study carbon dioxide conversion to alternative chemical products by electrochemical reduction, with a focus on catalyst materials and lifetime. This project has, for the past two years, been our only source of revenue. From Phases 1 to3 (lasting from September 2013 to September 2015), we received approximately CDN$611,125. The Phase 3 review occurred in September 2015 and tentatively approved for advancement into Phase 4. The timeline and structure of Phase 4 will depend upon the results, expected in October 2015, of a large-scale funding application submitted to the European Union in June 2015. If successful, this funding will cover Phases 4 and 5 of the current project. The original budget for Phase 4 was CDN$35,375, while Phase 5 was to-be-determined based on the results of the previous phases. Mantra and Alstom continue to pursue additional funding opportunities.

In November, 2015 Alstom was acquired by General Electric Corporation, resulting in a restructuring of Alstom (Switzerland) Ltd.&#146;s management and operations. As at the date of this report our agreement with Alstom remains effective, and we are awaiting approval from Alstom&#146;s new management to continue with the Lafarge pilot project.

Electro Reduction of Carbon Dioxide (&#147;ERC&#148;) 

We previously acquired 100% ownership in and to a certain chemical process for the electro-reduction of carbon dioxide. The reactor at the core of the chemical process, referred to as the electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), or &#147;ERC&#148;, has been proven functional through small-scale prototype trials and limited scale-up trials. ERC offers a possible solution to reduce the impact of CO 2 emissions on Earth&#146;s environment by converting CO 2 into chemicals with a broad range of commercial applications, including a fuel for a next generation of fuel cells. Powered by electricity, the ERC process combines captured carbon dioxide with water to produce materials, such as formic acid, formate salts, oxalic acid and methanol, that are conventionally obtained from the thermo-chemical processing of fossil fuels. However, while thermo-chemical reactions must be driven at relatively high temperatures that are normally obtained by burning fossil fuels, ERC operates at near ambient conditions and is driven by electric energy that can be taken from an electric power grid supplied by hydro, wind, solar or nuclear energy.

&#160;

ERC has been shown to produce a range of compounds, including formic acid, formate salts, oxalic acid, and methanol. The efficiency for generation of each compound depends on the experimental conditions, most importantly the material of the cathode, which catalyzes the electrochemical reactions.

Until appropriate cathodes are found some products of CO2 reduction (methanol, for instance) are obtained at efficiencies too low for practical use. Other products can be generated on known cathodes with high current yields that could support valuable practical processes. For example, formic acid and its salts have been obtained on tin cathodes with current efficiencies above 80%, at industrially relevant conditions. ERC Development to Date 

In October of 2008, we completed our first ERC prototype reactor capable of processing 1 kilogram of CO 2 per day. We anticipate that commercialization of ERC will require us to develop reactors capable of processing not less than 100 tons of CO 2 per day; however, there is no guarantee that we will successfully produce reactors of that size. Production of commercially viable ERC reactors will depend on continued research and development, successful testing of small-scale ERC reactors, and securing of additional financing. This testing is underway in our research facilities, and is complemented by the parallel engineering of a scaled-up demonstration plant by BC Research Inc. 

Established and Emerging Market for ERC and its Chemical Products 

The technology behind ERC can be applied to any scale commercial venture which outputs CO 2 into the atmosphere, though it is expected to be most effective when applied to large scale stationary sources. We anticipate that, once fully commercialized, we will be able to offer ERC as a CO 2 management system to various industry including steel, cement, fermentation processes, power generation and pulp and paper. 

As described, the ERC process can be used to produce a variety of different chemical products from CO 2 . The first products that Mantra are targeting are formic acid and its salts. These products have existing markets as commodity chemicals and sell for between $1,000 and $1,500 per tonne, with global consumption being in excess of 600,000 tonnes per year. Formic acid and its salts are used in a variety of industrial applications, including silage preservation, leather tanning, textiles production, oil well drilling, and de-icing, and show enormous potential for market expansion through their use in chemical energy storage. 

However, if the ERC process reaches market acceptance as a way to deal with CO 2 emissions from industry facilities, it will likely lead to supply of formic acid in excess of current market demand. We have identified several potential future applications for formic acid, which may lead to an expansion in current market demand. The application we have identified and are currently focusing on is energy storage. 

Mixed-Reactant Fuel Cell (MRFC) 

We retain the exclusive worldwide license for the MRFC technology. The MRFC is a novel fuel cell architecture that utilizes a mixture of the fuel and oxidant, and as a result, does not need a membrane. Conventional fuel cells (typically powered by hydrogen or methanol) must keep the fuel and oxidant separate, leading to several complications: a costly, failure-prone ion-selective membrane must be used to separate but ionically connect the cathode and anode chambers; complex reactant distribution and manifolding; and heavy, thick bipolar plates for separating cells. By contract, the MRFC has no membrane, has a simple reactant distribution mechanism, and contains no bipolar plates; as a result, the system is projected to be cheaper, lighter, and more robust than conventional fuel cells.

The MRFC thus offers the potential to provide distributed or grid-connected clean, affordable heat and power. Being very versatile due to its simplicity, the MRFC can address several markets, including emergency backup power, stationary combined heat and power, industrial vehicles such as forklifts, and transportation. The first target market for this technology is distributed emergency backup power for telecommunications.

The MRFC was invented and developed at the University of British Columbia by Professor Emeritus Colin Oloman and his team. In July 2014, we brought the technology into our internal lab for development, which culminated in a video we released in May 2015 showcasing an electric scooter powered exclusively by our MRFC technology. This video was intended to promote the technology to strategic partners and investors. Much of our research budget and activity over the period of January to May 2015 was dedicated to the design and construction of this scooter and the subsequent production of the demonstration video. We are currently exploring possibilities for joint development of the fuel cell with strategic partners.

Energy Storage 

Formate salts and formic acid, which can be produced from CO 2 via ERC, are excellent energy carriers and effective fuels for the MRFC. Thus, the integration of ERC and MRFC represents an energy storage solution whereby intermittent renewable electricity can be stored as formate/formic acid when it is available, and liberated when it is needed. The availability of energy storage is widely recognized as the next most critical factor for increased renewables penetration.

Competition 

There are several existing alternative methods to ERC which convert CO 2 into useful products. Other methods include, for example:

&#183;

Thermo-chemical reactions to produce carbon monoxide, formic acid, methane or methanol; 

&#183;

Bio-chemical reactions to produce methane; 

&#183;

Photo-chemical reactions to produce carbon monoxide, formaldehyde or formic acid; and 

&#183;

Photo-electro-chemical reaction to produce carbon monoxide and possibly methane &#38; methanol. 

Some thermo-chemical methods are established commercial industrial processes (e.g. production of methanol from CO 2 ) however, like ERC, most of these alternative methods of CO 2 conversion are still at the level of laboratory research and development projects. These alternative methods typically suffer from the following problems: 

&#183;

Low reaction rate and low CO 2 space velocity make it too costly and time consuming to process industrial quantities of CO 2 ; 

&#183;

Low selectivity for specified product(s) makes it harder to control product yield; 

&#183;

High operating temperature and pressure requires large quantities of fossil fuels to power reaction; and 

&#183;

Highly expensive and cumbersome hydrogen (H 2 ) is required as a feed reactant. 

Based on scholarship and test results to date, we believe that, compared with alternative methods of CO 2 conversion, ERC, when converting CO 2 to formate or formic acid, has several notable advantages including the following: 

&#183;

Medium reaction rate allows for commercially viable CO 2 processing times; 

&#183;

Medium CO 2 space velocity gives the ability to treat comparatively large volumes of CO 2 ; 

&#183;

High product selectivity for formate and formic acid; 

&#183;

Low operating temperature and pressure make it possible to rely on renewable sources of electricity instead of fossil fuels; and 

&#183;

Hydrogen (H 2 ) is not required as feed reactant. 

In addition to these advantages, we consider most developers of CO2 utilization technologies to not be directly competitive with Mantra. This is because a) the supply of CO2from industrial sources is very large, allowing for multiple technologies to be successful commercially, and b) most technologies generate different products from CO2 than those produced by Mantra, and thus will not be competitors in the sale of chemical products. 

However, because ERC has not yet been tested at a commercially viable scale, there is no guarantee that any of the advantages cited by us will translate into actual competitive advantages for ERC over competing methods for CO 2 conversion at an industrial scale. Also, like other competing methods, ERC suffers from fast cathode deterioration, and we must successfully isolate or develop a better ERC cathode in order to gain a competitive advantage in this regard. We have had success developing methods for improving the activity and extending the lifetime of the cathode at the bench scale and expect these methods to translate into significant process improvements as ERC is scaled up. 

Our competition consists of a number of small companies capable of competing effectively in the alternative energy market as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors are substantially larger and better funded than us, and have significantly longer histories of research, operation and development. Our competitors include technology providers or energy producers using biomass combustion, biomass anaerobic digestion, geothermal, solar, wind, new hydro and other renewable energy sources. In addition, we will face well-established competition from electric utilities and other energy companies in the traditional energy industry who have substantially greater financial resources than we do. 

Our competitors may be able to offer more competitively priced and more widely available energy products than ours and they also may have greater resources than us to create or develop new technologies and products. 

Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be successful in competing with existing and emerging competitors in the alternative energy industry or traditional energy industry. 

We plan to identify business opportunities with interested parties and potential customers by networking and participating in conferences and exhibitions related to greenhouse gas emissions reduction and alternative energy sources and technologies. The strategic and geographic focus of our business is currently the North American market. We believe that one of our competitive advantages is our online carbon reduction marketplace which brings energy/carbon reduction products and service providers into direct contact with consumers and enables the facilitation of business contacts. The focus of our online carbon reduction marketplace is not on business-to-business carbon trading, as is the case with many of our competitors. 

While our competitors may be operating similar business models, we plan to build our competitive position in the industry by: 

&#183;

filling our Scientific Advisory Board with skilled and proficient professionals; 

&#183;

developing and acquiring technologies to establish sustainable fuel supply chains; 

&#183;

providing a comprehensive range of services; and 

&#183;

providing marketing and promotion services to generate public awareness and enhance the reputation of sustainability initiatives. 

However, since we are still a young company, we face the same problems as other start-up companies in other industries. Our competitors may develop similar technologies to ours and use the same methods as we do, and they may generally be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in legislation and industry regulation. Additionally, our competitors may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their technologies or services than we do. Increased competition could also result in loss of key personnel, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. 

Government Regulations 

Some aspects of our intended operations, upon commercial deployment of our technologies, will be subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local laws, rules and regulations in North America and worldwide relating to, among other things, worker safety and the use, storage, discharge and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. For example, we are subject to the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (&#147;RCRA&#148;), the principal federal legislation regulating hazardous waste generation, management and disposal. At this time, our small-scale laboratory operations are in compliance with, but are not significantly impacted by, waste disposal regulations. 

Under some of the laws regulating the use, storage, discharge and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials, an owner or lessee of real estate may be liable for the costs of removing or remediating certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in, or emanating from, such property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Laws of this nature often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or lessee knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the removal or remediation of pollutants and may impose civil and criminal penalties for violations. Some of the laws and regulations authorize the recovery of natural resource damages by the government, injunctive relief and the imposition of stop, control, remediation and abandonment orders. The costs arising from compliance with environmental and natural resource laws and regulations may increase operating costs for both us and our potential customers. We are also subject to safety policies of jurisdictional-specific Workers Compensation Boards and similar agencies regulating the health and safety of workers. 

In addition to the forgoing, in the future our U.S., Canadian and global operations may be affected by regulatory and political developments at the federal, state, provincial and local levels including, but not limited to, restrictions on offset credit trading, the verification of offset projects and related offset credits, price controls, tax increases, the expropriation of property, the modification or cancellation of contract rights, and controls on joint ventures or other strategic alliances. 

We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals issued with respect to our operations. We expect to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to our intended business. At this time, we do not anticipate any material capital expenditures to comply with environmental or various regulations and requirements. 

While our intended projects or business activities have been designed to produce environmentally friendly green energy or other alternative products for which no specific regulatory barriers exist, any regulatory changes that impose additional restrictions or requirements on us or on our potential customers could adversely affect us by increasing our operating costs and decreasing potential demand for our technologies, products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Research and Development Expenditures 

During the year ended May 31, 2016, we spent $137,615 on research and development compared to$698,567 spent on research and development during fiscal 2015. We anticipate that we will incur approximately $3,250,000 in expenses on research and development (including wages and commercialization efforts) for ERC and MRFC, as well as other technologies we may acquire over the next 12 months. We believe that we may receive public funding and/or the award of further contract research and development projects during the 2017 fiscal year, which will help meet the financing necessary to carry out these activities. 

Employees 

As of September 22, 2016, we had four full-time employees, including one in management, one in administrative duties and two in research and development. Additionally, we have retained a number of consultants for legal, accounting and investor relations services. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Intellectual Property 

We previously acquired the process for the &#147;Continuous Co-Current Electrochemical Reduction of Carbon Dioxide&#148;, or the ERC technology, on November 2, 2007 as embodied by and described in the following Patent Cooperation Treaty application: 

Country 

Application Number 

File Date 

Status 

Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) 

W02207 

10/13/2006 

PCT (1) 

(1) 

The Patent Cooperation Treaty, an international patent law treaty, provides a unified procedure for filing patent applications to protect inventions in each of its contracting states.

The Patent Cooperation Treaty filing was made with a Receiving Office in 2006 and a written opinion was issued by International Searching Authority regarding the patentability of the invention which is the subject of the application. Finally, the examination and grant procedures will be handled by the relevant national or regional authorities. On March 31, 2008 we initiated the national patent process. The national patent process has been initiated in in Europe, the U.S., Canada, Australia, India, and China.

As of the date of this annual report, we have been awarded the following patents: 

Country 

Patent Number 

Patent Date 

Name of Patent 

India 

March 20, 2012 

&#147;An Electrochemical Process for Reducing of Carbon Dioxide&#148; 

China 

ZL 2006 8 0037810.8 

May 8, 2013 

&#147;Continuous Co- Current Electrochemical Reduction of Carbon Dioxide&#148; 

Australia 

May 1, 2014 

&#147;Continuous Co- Current Electrochemical Reduction of Carbon Dioxide&#148; 

Canada 

CA2625656 C 

December 19, 2014 

&#147;Continuous electro-chemical reduction of carbon dioxide&#148; 

We have not filed for protection of our trademark. We own the copyright of our logo and all of the contents of our website, www.mantraenergy.com. 

