 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The disclosures set forth in this item are qualified by Item 1A. Risk Factors, and the section captioned &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report and other cautionary statements set forth elsewhere in this report. 

General 

Independent Bank Group (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a registered bank holding company headquartered in McKinney, Texas, which is located in the northern portion of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area. The Company was organized as a Texas corporation on September 20, 2002. Through the Company&#8217;s wholly owned subsidiary, Independent Bank, a Texas state chartered bank, the Company provides a wide range of relationship-driven commercial banking products and services tailored to meet the needs of businesses, professionals and individuals. The Company operates 42 banking offices in the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area, the Austin/Central Texas area, and the Houston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had consolidated total assets of approximately $5.0 billion, total loans of approximately $3.9 billion, total deposits of approximately $4.0 billion and total stockholders&#8217; equity of approximately $603 million. 

The Company&#8217;s primary function is to own all of the stock of Independent Bank. Independent Bank is a locally managed community bank that seeks to provide personal attention and professional assistance to its customer base, which consists principally of small to medium sized businesses, professionals and individuals. Independent Bank&#8217;s philosophy includes offering direct access to its officers and personnel, providing friendly, informed and courteous service, local and timely decision making, flexible and reasonable operating procedures, and consistently applied credit policies. 

The Company consummated the underwritten initial public offering of its common stock in April 2013. The Company&#8217;s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

Business Strategy 

The Company operates based upon the following core strategies, which the Company designed to enhance shareholder value by growing strategically while preserving asset quality, improving efficiency and increasing profitability: 

Grow Organically . The Company focuses on continued organic growth through the Company&#8217;s existing footprint and business lines. The Company plans to follow the Company&#8217;s community-focused, relationship-driven customer strategy to increase loans and deposits through the Company&#8217;s existing locations. Preserving the safety and soundness of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio is a fundamental element of the Company&#8217;s organic growth strategy. The Company has a strong and conservative credit culture, which allows the Company to maintain the Company&#8217;s asset quality as the Company grows. 

Grow Through Acquisitions . The Company plans to continue to take advantage of opportunities to acquire other banking franchises both within and outside the Company&#8217;s current footprint. Since mid-2010, the Company has completed nine acquisitions that the Company believes have enhanced shareholder value and the Company&#8217;s market presence. The following table summarizes each of the nine acquisitions completed since 2010. 

Acquired Institution/Market 

Date of Acquisition 

Fair Value of Total Assets Acquired 

&#160; 

&#160; 

(dollars in thousands) 

Town Center Bank 

Dallas/North Texas 

July 31, 2010 

$37,451 

Farmersville Bancshares, Inc. 

Dallas/North Texas 

September 30, 2010 

99,420 

I Bank Holding Company, Inc. 

Austin/Central Texas 

April 1, 2012 

172,587 

The Community Group, Inc. 

Dallas/North Texas 

October 1, 2012 

110,967 

Collin Bank 

Dallas/North Texas 

November 30, 2013 

168,320 

Live Oak Financial Corp. 

Dallas/North Texas 

January 1, 2014 

131,008 

BOH Holdings, Inc. 

Houston, Texas 

April 15, 2014 

1,188,893 

Houston City Bancshares, Inc. 

Houston, Texas 

October 1, 2014 

350,747 

Grand Bank 

Dallas, Texas 

November 1, 2015 

620,176 * 

* Estimated values subject to change pending final acquisition accounting adjustments 

The BOH Holdings acquisition represented the Company&#8217;s entry into the Houston market. Houston City Bancshares was a follow on acquisition in the Houston market. Through these two acquisitions, the Company now operates 11 banking centers in the Houston metropolitan area with an aggregate of $1.12 billion in total assets. 

The Grand Bank acquisition represented the Company&#8217;s continued expansion in the Dallas metropolitan area. Through this acquisition, the Company added two locations in attractive sub markets in the Dallas area and added approximately $620 million in assets. The assets acquired in this acquisition represented 15% of the Company&#8217;s asset growth in 2015. 

&#160; 

The Company plans to explore additional opportunities in the growing sub markets within the Company&#8217;s current market regions as well as in attractive new markets such as Fort Worth and the San Antonio metropolitan area. Factors considered by the Company to evaluate expansion opportunities include a) similar management and operating philosophy, b) accretive to earnings and increase shareholder value, c) ability to improve efficiency, d) strategic expansion of Company footprint and e) enhance market presence in existing markets. The Company has a scalable infrastructure and experienced acquisition team which it believes will enable the Company to successfully integrate acquired banks. The Company intends to remain disciplined in its approach to acquisitions using appropriate valuation metrics. 

Improve Efficiency and Increase Profitability. The Company employs a systematic and calculated approach to increasing the Company&#8217;s profitability and improving the Company&#8217;s efficiencies. The Company has updated the Company&#8217;s operating capabilities and created synergies within the Company in the areas of technology, data processing, finance, compliance and human resources. The Company believes that the Company&#8217;s scalable infrastructure provides the Company with an efficient operating platform from which to grow in the near term without incurring significant incremental noninterest expenses, which will enhance the Company&#8217;s returns. 

Independent&#8217;s Community Banking Services 

The Independent Way. Nearly a century after the Company&#8217;s beginning, the Company&#8217;s dedication to serving the needs of businesses and individuals in the Company&#8217;s communities remains stronger than ever. The Company strives to provide the Company&#8217;s customers with innovative financial products and services, local decision making and a level of service and responsiveness that is second to none. The Company&#8217;s innovative and independent spirit is balanced by adherence to fundamental banking principles that have enabled the Company to remain strong, sound and financially secure even during challenging economic times. The Company is also steeped in a tradition of civic pride as evidenced by the investment of the Company&#8217;s time, energies and financial resources in many local organizations to improve and benefit the Company&#8217;s communities. 

Lending Operations. Through Independent Bank, the Company offers a broad range of commercial and retail lending products to businesses, professionals and individuals. Commercial lending products include owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, interim construction loans, commercial loans (such as SBA guaranteed loans, business term loans, equipment financing and lines of credit and energy related loans) to a diversified mix of small and midsized businesses, and loans to professionals, particularly medical practices. Retail lending products include residential first and second mortgage loans and consumer installment loans, such as loans to purchase cars, boats and other recreational vehicles. 

The Company&#8217;s strategy is to maintain a broadly diversified loan portfolio by type and location. The Company&#8217;s loans are primarily real estate secured loans spread among a variety of types of borrowers, including owner occupied offices for small businesses, medical practices and offices, retail operations and multi-family properties. The Company&#8217;s loans are diversified geographically throughout the Company&#8217;s Dallas/North Texas region (approximately 49%), the Company&#8217;s Houston region (approximately 27%) and the Company&#8217;s Austin/Central Texas region (approximately 24%). See &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Loan Portfolio&#8221; for a more detailed description of the Company&#8217;s lending operations. 

Deposits. Deposits are the Company&#8217;s principal source of funds for use in lending and other general banking purposes. The Company provides a full range of deposit products and services, including a variety of checking and savings accounts, debit cards, online banking, mobile banking, eStatements and bank-by-mail and direct deposit services. The Company also offers business accounts and management services, including analyzed business checking, business savings, and treasury management services. The Company solicits deposits through its relationship-driven team of dedicated and accessible bankers and through community focused marketing. 

Other Services. In connection with our relationship driven approach to our customers, the Company offers residential mortgages through our mortgage brokerage division. As a mortgage broker, the Company originates residential mortgages which are sold into the secondary market shortly after closing. The Company also provides wealth management services to its customers including investment advisory and other related services. 

Competition 

The Company competes in the commercial banking industry solely through Independent Bank and firmly believes that Independent Bank&#8217;s long-standing presence in the community and personal service philosophy enhance the Company&#8217;s ability to attract and retain customers. This industry is highly competitive, and Independent Bank faces strong direct competition for deposits, loans and other financial-related services. The Company competes with other commercial banks, thrifts and credit unions. Although some of these competitors are situated locally, others have statewide or nationwide presence. In addition, the Company competes with large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and certain government agencies as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services. The Company believes that its banking professionals, the range and quality of products that the Company offers and its emphasis on building long-lasting relationships distinguishes Independent Bank from its competitors. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company employed approximately 587 persons. The Company provides extensive training to the Company&#8217;s employees in an effort to ensure that the Company&#8217;s customers receive superior customer service. None of the Company&#8217;s employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit or are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes that the Company&#8217;s relations with the Company&#8217;s employees are good. 

Available Information 

The Company files reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You may read and copy this information at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information about issuers, like the Company, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov . 

Documents filed by the Company with the SEC are available from the Company without charge (except for exhibits to the documents). You may obtain documents filed by the Company with the SEC by requesting them in writing or by telephone from the Company at the following address: 

Independent Bank Group, Inc. 

1600 Redbud Boulevard, Suite 400 

McKinney, Texas 75069-3257 

Attention: Michelle S. Hickox 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Telephone: (972) 562-9004 

Documents filed by the Company with the SEC are also available on the Company&#8217;s website, www.ibtx.com. Information furnished by the Company and information on, or accessible through, the SEC&#8217;s or the Company&#8217;s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General . The U.S. banking industry is highly regulated under federal and state law. Consequently, the growth and earnings performance of the Company and its subsidiaries will be affected not only by management decisions and general and local economic conditions, but also by the statutes administered by, and the regulations and policies of, various governmental regulatory authorities. These authorities include the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, the Texas Department of Banking, or TDB, the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities. The effect of these statutes, regulations and policies, and any changes to such statutes, regulations and policies, can be significant and cannot be predicted. 

The primary goals of the bank regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries establishes a comprehensive framework for their respective operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance fund, the banks&#8217; depositors and the public, rather than the Company&#8217;s shareholders or creditors. The description below summarizes certain elements of the applicable bank regulatory framework. This description is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries, and the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, policies, interpretive letters and other written guidance that are described herein. 

The Dodd-Frank Act. &#32; The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, known as the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act has had a broad impact on the regulation and operation of financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the &#8220;source of strength&#8221; doctrine, authorized the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and implemented new mortgage lending rules, established a risk retention rule, imposed limitations on trading activities, made permanent the deposit insurance limit of $250,000 and increased the minimum Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio, enhanced the restrictions on transactions with affiliates, and expanded corporate governance requirements and executive compensation limitations for U.S. public companies. Many of the requirements have recently been implemented, or are in the 

process of being implemented. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented and interpreted, the full impact of these changes will not be known for several years. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, to the extent known, are incorporated in the discussion of supervision and regulation of the Company and Independent Bank below. 

Independent Bank Group as a Bank Holding Company 

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, or the BHC Act, and to supervision, examination and enforcement by the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act and other federal laws subject bank holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s jurisdiction also extends to any company that the Company directly or indirectly controls, such as the Company&#8217;s nonbank subsidiaries. 

Regulatory Restrictions on Dividends; Source of Strength . The Company is regarded as a legal entity separate and distinct from Independent Bank. The principal source of the Company&#8217;s revenues is dividends received from Independent Bank. As described in more detail below, Texas state law places limitations on the amount that state banks may pay in dividends, which Independent Bank must adhere to when paying dividends to the Company. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement that provides that a bank holding company should not pay dividends unless (a) its net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (b) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries and (c) the bank holding company will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. Accordingly, the Company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income in any year or that can only be funded in ways that weaken its ability to serve as a source of financial strength for its banking subsidiaries, including by borrowing money to pay dividends. 

Under Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies have historically been required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries, and the Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Under this requirement, the Company is expected to commit resources to support Independent Bank, including at times when the Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. As discussed below, a bank holding company, in certain circumstances, could be required to guarantee the capital restoration plan of an undercapitalized banking subsidiary. If the capital of Independent Bank were to become impaired, the Federal Reserve could assess the Company for the deficiency. If the Company failed to pay the assessment within three months, the Federal Reserve could order the sale of the Company&#8217;s stock in Independent Bank to cover the deficiency. 

Scope of Permissible Activities . Under the BHC Act, the Company is prohibited from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank or financial holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiary banks, except that the Company may engage in, directly or indirectly, and may own shares of companies engaged in, certain activities found by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking or managing and controlling banks as to be a proper. These activities include, among others, operating a mortgage, finance, credit card or factoring company; performing certain data processing operations; providing investment and financial advice; acting as an insurance agent for certain types of credit-related insurance; leasing personal property on a full-payout, nonoperating basis; and providing certain stock brokerage and investment advisory services. In approving acquisitions or the addition of activities, the Federal Reserve considers, among other things, whether the acquisition or the additional activities can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh such possible adverse effects as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, also known as the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, effective March 11, 2000, or the GLB Act, amended the BHC Act and eliminated the barriers to affiliations among banks, securities firms, insurance companies and other financial service providers. The GLB Act permits bank holding companies to become financial holding companies and thereby affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. The GLB Act defines &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; to include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking activities; and activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be closely related to banking. No regulatory approval will be required for a financial holding company to acquire a company, other than a bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve. 

Safe and Sound Banking Practices . &#32;Bank holding companies are not permitted to engage in unsafe and unsound banking practices. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation Y, for example, generally requires a bank holding company to provide the Federal Reserve with prior notice of any redemption or repurchase of its own equity securities, if the consideration to be paid, together with the consideration paid for any repurchases or redemptions in the preceding year, is equal to 10% or more of the bank holding company&#8217;s consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve may oppose the transaction if it believes that the transaction would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law or regulation. In certain circumstances, the Federal Reserve could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. 

The Federal Reserve has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their nonbanking subsidiaries which represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or which constitute violations of laws or regulations, and can assess civil money penalties for certain activities conducted on a knowing and reckless basis, if those activities caused a substantial loss to a depository institution. The penalties can be as high as one million dollars ($1,000,000) for each day the activity continues. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions . Bank holding companies and their affiliates are prohibited from tying the provision of certain services, such as extensions of credit, to other nonbanking services offered by a bank holding company or its affiliates. 

Capital Adequacy Requirements . The Federal Reserve has historically utilized a system based upon risk-based capital guidelines under a two-tier capital framework to evaluate the capital adequacy of bank holding companies. Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stockholders&#8217; equity, retained earnings, a limited amount of qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain intangibles. Tier 2 capital generally consists of certain hybrid capital instruments and perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities and a limited amount of subordinated debt, qualifying preferred stock, loan loss allowance, and unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities. The regulatory capital requirements are applicable to the Company because its total consolidated assets equal more than $1 billion. Independent Bank is subject to the capital requirements of the FDIC. 

Under the guidelines, specific categories of assets are assigned different risk weights, based generally on the perceived credit risk of the asset. These risk weights are multiplied by corresponding asset balances to determine a &#8220;risk-weighted&#8221; asset base. The guidelines require a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.0% (of which at least 4.0% is required to consist of Tier 1 capital elements). Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets exclude intangible assets such as goodwill and core deposit intangibles. 

In addition to the risk-based capital guidelines, the Federal Reserve uses a leverage ratio as an additional tool to evaluate the capital adequacy of bank holding companies. The leverage ratio is a company&#8217;s Tier 1 capital divided by its average total consolidated assets. Certain highly rated bank holding companies may maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0%, but other bank holding companies are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. 

The federal banking agencies&#8217; risk-based and leverage capital ratios are minimum supervisory ratios generally applicable to banking organizations that meet certain specified criteria. Banking organizations not meeting these criteria are expected to operate with capital positions well above the minimum ratios. The federal bank regulatory agencies may set capital requirements for a particular banking organization that are higher than the minimum ratios when circumstances warrant. Federal Reserve guidelines also provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions must maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. 

On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing the revised capital standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly known as &#8220;Basel III,&#8221; as well as additional capital reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Act. This final rule, once fully phased-in, requires bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. 

The new final capital framework, among other things, (i) introduces as a new capital measure &#8220;Common Equity Tier 1,&#8221; or CET1, (ii) specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. 

The new capital rule, when fully phased in, requires, among other things, a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio with a minimum required ratio of 4.5% of total assets and an increase in the minimum required amount of Tier 1 capital from the current level of 4% of total assets to 6% of total risk weighted assets and the continuation of the requirement to maintain total capital of 8% of total risk-weighted assets. Moreover, the new rule requires banks to hold additional capital equal to 2.5% of 

total assets as a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; in order to avoid restrictions on certain activities, including the payment of dividends and certain bonuses. The new rule also provides for a &#8220;countercyclical capital buffer&#8221; that would be added to the capital conservation buffer generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk. 

The Company became subject to the new capital rules on January 1, 2015. The Company believes that it will be in compliance with the new capital rules going forward and that the new capital rules will not have a material impact on the Company. 

Proposed Liquidity Requirements . Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity&#8217;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The LCR was introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2015, but the NSFR will not be introduced as a requirement until January 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms could change before implementation. 

Imposition of Liability for Undercapitalized Subsidiaries . Bank regulators are required to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems associated with insured depository institutions whose capital declines below certain levels. In the event an institution becomes undercapitalized, it must submit a capital restoration plan. The capital restoration plan will not be accepted by the regulators unless each company having control of the undercapitalized institution guarantees the subsidiary&#8217;s compliance with the capital restoration plan up to a certain specified amount. Any such guarantee from a depository institution&#8217;s holding company is entitled to a priority of payment in bankruptcy. 

The aggregate liability of the holding company of an undercapitalized bank is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of the institution&#8217;s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount necessary to cause the institution to be adequately capitalized. The bank regulators have greater power in situations where an institution becomes significantly or critically undercapitalized or fails to submit a capital restoration plan. For example, a bank holding company controlling such an institution can be required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval of proposed dividends, or might be required to consent to a consolidation or to divest the troubled institution or other affiliates. 

Acquisitions by Bank Holding Companies . The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. In approving bank acquisitions by bank holding companies, the Federal Reserve is required to consider, among other things, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the financial condition, managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA), the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money laundering activities and the extent to which the proposed acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system. The Company&#8217;s ability to make future acquisitions will depend on its ability to obtain approval for such acquisitions from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve could deny the Company&#8217;s application based on the above criteria or other considerations. For example, the Company could be required to sell banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to the Company or, if acceptable, may reduce the benefit of a proposed acquisition. 

Control Acquisitions . Federal and state laws, including the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, or the CBCA, impose additional prior notice or approval requirements and ongoing regulatory requirements on any investor that seeks to acquire direct or indirect &#8220;control&#8221; of an FDIC-insured depository institution or bank holding company. Whether an investor &#8220;controls&#8221; a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, an investor is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting securities. Subject to rebuttal, an investor is presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting securities and either the depository institution or company is a public company or no other person will hold a greater percentage of that class of voting securities after the acquisition. If an 

investor&#8217;s ownership of the Company&#8217;s voting securities were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to &#8220;control&#8221; the Company for regulatory purposes, which could subject such investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences. 

Regulation of Independent Bank 

Independent Bank is a Texas-chartered banking association, the deposits of which are insured by the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC. Independent Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System; therefore, Independent Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC and the TDB. Such supervision and regulation subject Independent Bank to special restrictions, requirements, potential enforcement actions and periodic examination by the FDIC and the TDB. Because the Federal Reserve regulates the Company, the Federal Reserve also has supervisory authority that directly affects Independent Bank. 

Equivalence to National Bank Powers . The Texas Constitution, as amended in 1986, provides that a Texas-chartered bank has the same rights and privileges that are or may be granted to national banks domiciled in Texas. To the extent that the Texas laws and regulations may have allowed state-chartered banks to engage in a broader range of activities than national banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, or the FDICIA, has operated to limit this authority. The FDICIA provides that no state bank or subsidiary thereof may engage as a principal in any activity not permitted for national banks, unless the institution complies with applicable capital requirements and the FDIC determines that the activity poses no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC. In general, statutory restrictions on the activities of banks are aimed at protecting the safety and soundness of depository institutions. 

Financial Modernization . Under the GLB Act, a national bank may establish a financial subsidiary and engage, subject to limitations on investment, in activities that are financial in nature, other than insurance underwriting as principal, insurance company portfolio investment, real estate development, real estate investment, annuity issuance and merchant banking activities. To do so, a bank must be well capitalized, well managed and have a Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, rating from the FDIC of satisfactory or better. Subsidiary banks of a financial holding company or national banks with financial subsidiaries must remain well capitalized and well managed in order to continue to engage in activities that are financial in nature without regulatory actions or restrictions. Such actions or restrictions could include divestiture of the &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; subsidiary or subsidiaries. In addition, a financial holding company or a bank may not acquire a company that is engaged in activities that are financial in nature unless each of the subsidiary banks of the financial holding company or the bank has a CRA rating of satisfactory of better. 

Although the powers of state chartered banks are not specifically addressed in the GLB Act, Texas- chartered banks such as Independent Bank will have the same if not greater powers as national banks through the parity provisions contained in the Texas Constitution and other Texas statutes. 

Branching . Texas law provides that a Texas-chartered bank can establish a branch anywhere in Texas provided that the branch is approved in advance by the TDB. The branch must also be approved by the FDIC, which considers a number of factors, including financial history, capital adequacy, earnings prospects, character of management, needs of the community and consistency with corporate powers. The Dodd-Frank Act permits insured state banks to engage in de novo interstate branching if the laws of the state where the new branch is to be established would permit the establishment of the branch if it were chartered by such state. 

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders . Transactions between Independent Bank and its nonbanking subsidiaries and/or affiliates, including the Company, are subject to Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. In general, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act imposes limits on the amount of such transactions, and also requires certain levels of collateral for loans to affiliated parties. It also limits the amount of advances to third parties that are collateralized by the securities or obligations of the Company or its subsidiaries. Covered transactions with any single affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of Independent Bank, and covered transactions with all affiliates may not exceed, in the aggregate, 20% of Independent Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus. For a bank, capital stock and surplus refers to the bank&#8217;s Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from Tier 2 capital. Independent Bank&#8217;s transactions with all of its affiliates in the aggregate are limited to 20% of the foregoing capital. &#8220;Covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. In addition, in connection with covered transactions that are extensions of credit, Independent Bank may be required to hold collateral to provide added security to Independent Bank, and the types of permissible collateral may be limited. The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates. 

Affiliate transactions are also subject to Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which generally requires that certain transactions between Independent Bank and its affiliates be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to Independent Bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other nonaffiliated persons. 

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and their related interests (collectively referred to herein as &#8220;insiders&#8221;) contained in the Federal Reserve Act and in Regulation O promulgated by the Federal Reserve apply to all insured institutions and their subsidiaries and bank holding companies. These restrictions include limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such a loan can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans to insiders and their related interests. Generally, these loans cannot exceed the institution&#8217;s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Loans to senior executive officers of a bank are even further restricted, generally limited to $100,000 per senior executive officer. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of applicable restrictions. 

Restrictions on Distribution of Subsidiary Bank Dividends and Assets . Dividends paid by Independent Bank have provided a substantial part of the Company&#8217;s operating funds, and for the foreseeable future, it is anticipated that dividends paid by Independent Bank to the Company will continue to be the Company&#8217;s principal source of operating funds. However, capital adequacy requirements serve to limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by Independent Bank. Under federal law, Independent Bank cannot pay a dividend if, after paying the dividend, it would be undercapitalized. The FDIC may declare a dividend payment to be unsafe and unsound even though Independent Bank would continue to meet its capital requirements after payment of the dividend. 

Because the Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, its right to participate in the distribution of assets of any subsidiary upon the subsidiary&#8217;s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary&#8217;s creditors. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or the FDI Act, provides that, in the event of a &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If Independent Bank fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Company, with respect to any extensions of credit it has made to Independent Bank. 

Examinations . The FDIC periodically examines and evaluates state nonmember banks. Based on such an evaluation, the FDIC may revalue the assets of the institution and require that it establish specific reserves to compensate for the difference between the FDIC determined value and the book value of such assets. The TDB also conducts examinations of state banks, but may accept the results of a federal examination in lieu of conducting an independent examination. In addition, the FDIC and TDB may elect to conduct a joint examination. 

Audit Reports . Insured institutions with total assets of $500 million or more must submit annual audit reports prepared by independent auditors to federal and state regulators. In some instances, the audit report of the institution&#8217;s holding company can be used to satisfy this requirement. Auditors of an insured institution must receive examination reports, supervisory agreements and reports of enforcement actions. For institutions with total assets of $1 billion or more, financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, management&#8217;s certifications signed by the Company&#8217;s and Independent Bank&#8217;s chief executive officer and chief accounting or financial officer concerning management&#8217;s responsibility for the financial statements, and an attestation by the auditors regarding Independent Bank&#8217;s internal controls must also be submitted. For institutions with total assets of more than $3 billion, independent auditors may be required to review quarterly financial statements. The FDICIA requires that Independent Bank have an independent audit committee, consisting only of outside directors, or that the Company has an audit committee that is entirely independent. The committees of such institutions must include members with experience in banking or financial management, must have access to outside counsel, and must not include representatives of large customers. 

Capital Adequacy Requirements . The FDIC has adopted regulations establishing minimum requirements for the capital adequacy of insured institutions and may establish higher minimum requirements if, for example, a bank has previously received special attention or has a high susceptibility to interest rate risk. The FDIC&#8217;s risk-based capital guidelines generally require state banks to have a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4.0% and a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.0%. The capital categories have the same definitions for Independent Bank as for the Company. The FDIC&#8217;s leverage guidelines require state banks to maintain Tier 1 capital of no less than 4.0% of average total assets, except in the case of certain highly rated banks for which the requirement is 3.0% of average total assets. The TDB has issued a policy which generally requires state chartered banks to maintain a leverage ratio (defined in accordance with federal capital guidelines) of 5.0%. 

Corrective Measures for Capital Deficiencies . The federal banking regulators are required by the FDI Act to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to capital-deficient institutions that are FDIC-insured. Agency regulations define, for each capital category, the levels at which institutions are &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; bank has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or higher, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or higher, a leverage ratio of 5.0% or higher, and is not subject to any written agreement, order or directive requiring it to maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; bank has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or higher, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or higher, a leverage ratio of 4.0% or higher (3.0% or higher if the bank was rated a composite 1 in its most recent examination report and is not experiencing significant growth), and does not meet the criteria for a well&#8209;capitalized bank. A bank is &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it fails to meet any one of the ratios required to be adequately capitalized. 

In addition to requiring undercapitalized institutions to submit a capital restoration plan, agency regulations contain broad restrictions on certain activities of undercapitalized institutions, including asset growth, acquisitions, branch establishment and expansion into new lines of business. With certain exceptions, an insured depository institution is prohibited from making capital distributions, including dividends, and is prohibited from paying management fees to control persons if the institution would be undercapitalized after any such distribution or payment. 

As an institution&#8217;s capital decreases, the FDIC&#8217;s enforcement powers become more severe. A significantly undercapitalized institution is subject to mandated capital raising activities, restrictions on interest rates paid and transactions with affiliates, removal of management and other restrictions. The FDIC has only very limited discretion in dealing with a critically undercapitalized institution and is virtually required to appoint a receiver or conservator. 

Banks with risk-based capital and leverage ratios below the required minimums may also be subject to certain administrative actions, including the termination of deposit insurance upon notice and hearing, or a temporary suspension of insurance without a hearing in the event the institution has no tangible capital. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments . Substantially all of the deposits of Independent Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, and Independent Bank must pay annual &#32; deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC for such deposit insurance protection. The FDIC maintains the deposit insurance fund by designating a required reserve ratio. If the reserve ratio falls below the designated level, the FDIC must adopt a restoration plan that provides that the deposit insurance fund will return to an acceptable level generally within five years. 

On December 20, 2010, the FDIC raised the minimum designated reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund to 2.00%, which exceeds the 1.35% reserve ratio that is required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC has the discretion to set the price for deposit insurance according to the risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC is required to offset the effect of the higher reserve ratio on small insured depository institutions, which are those with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. 

The deposit insurance fund reserve ratio is maintained by assessing depository institutions and establishing an insurance premium based upon statutory factors. Under its current regulations, the FDIC imposes assessments for deposit insurance according to a depository institution&#8217;s ranking in one of four risk categories based upon supervisory and capital evaluations. 

On February 7, 2012, the FDIC approved a final rule that amends its existing deposit insurance funds restoration plan and implements certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective as of July 1, 2012, the assessment base is determined using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity rather than the current assessment base of adjusted domestic deposits. Because the change resulted in a much larger assessment base, the final rule also lowered the assessment rates in order to keep the total amount collected from financial institutions relatively unchanged from the amounts previously being collected. After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate for Independent Bank could range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on an annualized basis. 

Brokered Deposit Restrictions . Adequately capitalized institutions cannot accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits, without receiving a waiver from the FDIC, and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates that can be paid on any deposits. Undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. 

Concentrated Commercial Real Estate Lending Regulations . The federal banking agencies have promulgated guidance governing financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm residential properties and loans for construction, land development and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and the bank&#8217;s commercial 

real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. Owner occupied loans are excluded from this second category. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. 

Cross-Guarantee Provisions . The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, or the FIRREA, contains a &#8220;cross-guarantee&#8221; provision, which generally makes commonly controlled insured depository institutions liable to the FDIC for any losses incurred in connection with the failure of a commonly controlled depository institution. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their entire service area, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of such banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank&#8217;s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. The FIRREA requires federal banking agencies to make public a rating of a bank&#8217;s performance under the CRA. In the case of a bank holding company, the CRA performance record of the banks involved in the transaction are reviewed in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay approval or result in denial of an application. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations . In addition to the laws and regulations discussed herein, Independent Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the Fair Housing Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. Independent Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of their ongoing customer relations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has broad authority to regulate and supervise retail financial services activities of banks, such as Independent Bank, and has the authority to promulgate regulations, issue orders, guidance and policy statements, conduct examinations and bring enforcement actions with regard to consumer financial products and services. In general, however, banks with assets of $10 billion or less, such as Independent Bank, will continue to be examined for consumer compliance by their primary bank regulator. 

Privacy . In addition to expanding the activities in which banks and bank holding companies may engage, the GLB Act also imposed new requirements on financial institutions with respect to customer privacy. The GLB Act generally prohibits disclosure of customer information to nonaffiliated third parties unless the customer has been given the opportunity to object and has not objected to such disclosure. Financial institutions are further required to disclose their privacy policies to customers annually. Financial institutions, however, are required to comply with state law if it is more protective of customer privacy than the GLB Act. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Legislation . A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, or the USA Patriot Act, substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued and, in some cases, proposed a number of regulations that apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. The USA Patriot Act requires, among other things, financial institutions to comply with certain due diligence requirements in connection with correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons, establish an anti-money laundering program that includes employee training and an independent audit, follow minimum standards for identifying customers and maintaining records of the identification information and make regular comparisons of customers against agency lists of suspected terrorists, their organizations and money launderers. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation . The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their 

administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting certain countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to a U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Changes in Laws, Regulations or Policies 

In general, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions. From time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in Congress and state legislatures. Such initiatives may change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company and Independent Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that any potential legislation, if enacted, or implementing regulations with respect thereto, would have, upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or Independent Bank. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company or Independent Bank could have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and Independent Bank. 

Enforcement Powers of Federal and State Banking Agencies 

The federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Company or Independent Bank and their subsidiaries, as well as their respective officers, directors, and other institution&#8209;affiliated parties, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil money penalties. In addition to the grounds discussed above under &#8220;Corrective Measures for Capital Deficiencies,&#8221; the appropriate federal banking agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution (or the FDIC may appoint itself, under certain circumstances) if any one or more of a number of circumstances exist. The TDB also has broad enforcement powers over Independent Bank, including the power to impose orders, remove officers and directors, impose fines and appoint supervisors and conservators. 

Effect on Economic Environment 

The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, have a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the means available to the Federal Reserve to affect the money supply are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. 

Federal Reserve monetary policies have materially affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The Company cannot predict the nature of future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the business and earnings of it and its subsidiaries. 

