 Item 1. Business 

When we refer to "we," "our," "us" or the "Company," we mean EVINE Live Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. EVINE Live Inc. is a Minnesota corporation with principal and executive offices located at 6740 Shady Oak Road, Eden Prairie, Minnesota 55344-3433. EVINE Live Inc. (formerly ValueVision Media, Inc.) was incorporated on June 25, 1990. 

The Company&#8217;s most recently completed fiscal year, fiscal 2015 , ended on January 30, 2016 , and consisted of 52 &#32;weeks. Fiscal 2014 &#32;ended on January 31, 2015 &#32;and consisted of 52 &#32;weeks. Fiscal 2013 &#32;ended on February 1, 2014 &#32;and consisted of 52 &#32;weeks. 

A. General 

We are a digital commerce company that offers a mix of proprietary, exclusive and name brands directly to consumers in an engaging and informative shopping experience through TV, online and mobile devices. We operate a 24-hour television shopping network, EVINE Live, which is distributed primarily on cable and satellite systems, through which we offer proprietary, exclusive and name brand products in the categories of jewelry &#38; watches; home &#38; consumer electronics; beauty; and fashion &#38; accessories. We also operate evine.com, a comprehensive digital commerce platform that sells products which appear on our television shopping network as well as an extended assortment of online-only merchandise. Our programming and products are also marketed via mobile devices - including smartphones and tablets, and through the leading social media channels. 

On November 18, 2014, we announced that we had changed our corporate name to EVINE Live Inc. from ValueVision Media, Inc. Effective November 20, 2014, our NASDAQ trading symbol also changed to EVLV from VVTV. We transitioned from doing business as "ShopHQ" and rebranded to "EVINE Live" and evine.com on February 14, 2015. 

In May 2013, we previously announced a rebranding of our 24-hour television shopping network and digital commerce internet website from ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com to ShopHQ and ShopHQ.com, respectively. 

Digital Commerce Retailing 

Our primary form of digital commerce retailing is our live 24-hour television shopping network. EVINE Live is the third largest television shopping network in the United States, while evine.com is a comprehensive online website with complementary and online-only products. Consolidated net sales, including shipping and handling revenues, totaled $693.3 million , $674.6 million &#32;and $640.5 million &#32;for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , respectively. Shoppers can interact and shop via a toll-free telephone number and place orders directly with us or enter an order on the evine.com website. Our television programming is produced at our Eden Prairie, Minnesota headquarters facility and is transmitted nationally via satellite to cable system operators, direct-to-home satellite providers, broadcast television station operators, to our owned full power broadcast television station WWDP TV in Boston, Massachusetts and through a leased full power broadcast television station in Seattle, Washington. 

Products and Product Mix 

Products sold on our media channel platforms include jewelry &#38; watches, home &#38; consumer electronics, beauty, and fashion &#38; accessories. Historically jewelry &#38; watches has been our largest merchandise category. While changes in our product mix have occurred as a result of customer demand and other factors including our efforts to diversify our offerings within our major merchandise categories, jewelry &#38; watches remained our largest merchandise category in fiscal 2015. We are focused on diversifying our merchandise assortment both among our existing product categories as well as with potentially new product categories, including proprietary, exclusive and name brands, in an effort to increase revenues and to grow our new and active customer base. The following table shows our merchandise mix as a percentage of television shopping and online net merchandise sales for the years indicated by product category group. Certain fiscal 2014 and 2013 product category percentages in the accompanying table have been reclassified to conform to our fiscal 2015 product group hierarchy: 

Merchandise Category 

&#160; 

Fiscal 2015 

&#160; 

Fiscal 2014 

&#160; 

Fiscal 2013 

Jewelry &#38; Watches 

&#160; 

39% 

&#160; 

42% 

&#160; 

43% 

Home &#38; Consumer Electronics 

&#160; 

31% 

&#160; 

30% 

&#160; 

35% 

Beauty 

&#160; 

14% 

&#160; 

12% 

&#160; 

11% 

Fashion &#38; Accessories 

&#160; 

16% 

&#160; 

16% 

&#160; 

11% 

&#32;4 

Jewelry &#38; Watches. We feature a broad assortment of jewelry from fine to fashion, silver to gold, genuine gemstones to simulated diamonds. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of men&#8217;s and women&#8217;s watches from classic to modern designs. 

Home &#38; Consumer Electronics. We feature home d&#233;cor, bed and bath textiles, cookware, kitchen electrics, mattresses, tabletop accessories, and home furnishings. With consumer electronics, we offer the latest technology trends and solutions for today's consumer, from some of the world's most recognized brands. 

Beauty. Our beauty assortment features a variety of skincare, cosmetics, hair care and bath &#38; body products. 

Fashion &#38; Accessories. We offer fashionable looks that strike a balance between what's hot and what's essential with a wide assortment of apparel, outerwear, intimates, handbags, accessories, and footwear. 

B. Company Strategy 

As a digital commerce company, our strategy includes offering exciting proprietary, exclusive and name brand merchandise using online, mobile, social media and our commerce infrastructure, which includes television access to approximately 88 million &#32;cable and satellite homes in the United States. We believe our greatest growth opportunity lies in leveraging these digital commerce platforms in a way that engages customers far more often than just when they are in the mood to shop. 

By investing in new brands and offering a more diverse assortment of proprietary, exclusive (i.e., brands that are not readily available elsewhere) and name brand merchandise, presented in an engaging, entertaining, shopping-centric format, we believe we will attract a larger customer base targeting a broader demographic. At the root of our efforts to attract a larger customer base is a focus on expanding and strengthening our relationships with the brands, personalities and vendors with whom we do business. 

In addition to offering our customers a more diverse assortment of proprietary, exclusive and name brand merchandise, we are focusing on increasing awareness of the EVINE Live brand and our Shop.Share.Smile platform while at the same time augmenting our distribution footprint, with the goal of expanding our customer base. Properly executed, we believe these initiatives may provide us a greater opportunity to grow our top and bottom lines in a more meaningful and competitive way. 

Priorities for fiscal 2016 that we believe will ultimately drive sustainable profitability are: improving our discipline around offering the most popular and profitable merchandise mix that our customers prefer; careful attention to gross profit and our cost structure; capitalizing on our expertise in video-based ecommerce; sensibly broadening our distribution base; improving channel adjacencies and placement; exploiting new technologies in mobile and logistics; increasing customer penetration; improving customer and partner relationship management; process improvements; brand building and delivering value to our customers and business partners. We believe that our new brand identity coupled with a fresh focus on existing as well as emerging platforms and technologies and the development of proprietary and exclusive brands along with an improved program distribution footprint will begin repositioning our Company as a digital commerce company that delivers a more engaging and enjoyable customer experience with sales and service that exceed expectations. 

C. Television Program Distribution and Online Operations 

Net sales from our television shopping business, inclusive of shipping and handling revenues, totaled $368 million , $374 million , and $343 million , representing 53% , 55% &#32;and 54% &#32;of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , respectively. Net sales from our online and mobile business, inclusive of shipping and handling revenues, totaled $325 million , $301 million , and $297 million , representing 47% , 45% &#32;and 46% &#32;of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , respectively. Our online sales percentage is calculated based on sales orders that are generated from our evine.com website, including mobile devices and primarily ordered directly online. Our television programming continues to be the most significant medium through which we reach our customers and we believe that our television shopping broadcast program is a key driver of traffic to our evine.com website and mobile platfo r ms. Our internet business represents an important component of our future growth opportunities, and we will continue to invest in and enhance our online-based capabilities and mobile presence. 

Television Shopping Network 

Satellite Delivery of Programming. Our television network is presently distributed via communications satellite transponders to cable systems and direct-to-home satellite providers, a full power television station in Boston and one leased broadcast station in Seattle. In January 2005, we entered into a long-term satellite lease agreement with our present provider of satellite services. Pu rsuant to the terms of this agreement, we distribute our television network via a satellite that was launched in August 2005. The &#32;agreement provides us, under certain circumstances, with preemptible back-up services if satellite transmission is interrupted. 

Television Distribution. As of January 30, 2016 , we have entered into distribution agreements with cable operators, direct-to-home satellite providers and telecommunications companies to distribute our television network over their systems. The terms 

&#32;5 

of the affiliation agreements typically range from one &#32;to five &#32;years. During any fiscal year, certain agreements with cable, satellite or other distributors may expire. Under certain circumstances, we or our distributors may cancel the agreements prior to their expiration. The affiliation agreements generally provide that we will pay each operator a monthly access fee and in some cases marketing support payments based on the number of homes receiving our programming. We frequently review distribution opportunities with cable system operators and broadcast stations providing for full- or part-time carriage of our network. 

During fiscal 2015 , there were approximately 120 million &#32;homes in the United States with at least one television set. Of those homes, there were approximately 56 million &#32;cable television subscribers, approximately 33 million &#32;direct-to-home satellite subscribers and approximately 13 million &#32;homes who receive programming through telephone service providers, such as AT&#38;T and Verizon. We continue to experience growth in the annual average number of subscriber homes that receive our network. 

During fiscal 2015, our television shopping network was available to approximately 88.1 million &#32;average full time equivalent subscribers ("FTEs"), compared with approximately 87.5 million &#32;average FTEs, during fiscal 2014. 

Online Presence 

Our website, evine.com, as well as our mobile platform, provides customers with a watch and shop anytime, anywhere experience and offers a broad array of consumer merchandise, including all products featured on our television programming as well as merchandise found only on evine.com. The website includes additional resources, including a live stream of our television programming, an archive of segments of recent past programming, videos of many individual products that the customer can view on demand, an online program guide, customer-generated product reviews as well as information about our EVINE Live show hosts and guest personalities. The FCC has required that all full-length television programming redistributed over the internet is captioned, and it is considering requiring captioning of programming segments. We currently provide closed captioning on full-length programming redistributed over the internet and a limited amount of programming segments. 

Our e-commerce activities are subject to a number of general business regulations and laws regarding taxation and online commerce. There have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information. A number of states impose data security requirements on companies that collect certain types of information concerning their residents and other states may adopt similar requirements in the future. A patchwork of state laws imposing differing security requirements depending on the residence of our customers could impose added compliance costs. 

In November 2002, a number of states approved a multi-state agreement to simplify state sales tax laws by establishing one uniform system to administer and collect sales taxes on traditional retailers and electronic commerce merchants. The agreement became effective on October 3, 2005. To date, 24 of the 45 states that impose sales tax have passed conforming legislation. A number of states and the U.S. Congress are considering other legislative initiatives that would impose tax collection obligations on electronic commerce. We cannot predict as to whether individual states or the U.S. Congress will enact legislation requiring retailers such as us to collect and remit sales taxes on electronic commerce transactions. 

There are a number of federal laws that limit our ability to pursue certain direct marketing activities, including the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, which allows a recipient to affirmatively opt out of e-mail solicitations. This type of regulation limits our ability to pursue certain direct marketing activities, thus limiting our sales and potential customers. 

Changes in consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business through the internet. 

In addition, since our website is available over the internet in all states, various states may claim that we are required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in such state, a requirement that could result in fees and taxes as well as penalties for the failure to comply. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business or the application of existing laws and regulations to the internet and other online services could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business in this area. 

D. Relationship with GE Equity, Comcast and NBCU 

Relationship with GE Equity, Comcast and NBCU 

We are a party to an amended and restated shareholder agreement, dated February 25, 2009 (the "GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement"), with GE Capital Equity Investments, Inc. (&#8220;GE Equity&#8221;) and NBCUniversal Media, LLC ("NBCU"), which provides for certain corporate governance and standstill matters (as described further below). NBCU is an indirect subsidiary of Comcast Corporation ("Comcast"). We believe that as of January 30, 2016 , the direct equity ownership of GE Equity in the Company 

&#32;6 

consisted of 3,545,049 shares of common stock, and the direct ownership of NBCU in the Company consists of 7,141,849 shares of common stock. We have a significant cable distribution agreement with Comcast and believe that the terms of the agreement are comparable to those with other cable system operators. 

General Electric Company (&#8220;GE&#8221;), the parent company of GE Equity, has agreed with Comcast that, for so long as GE Equity is entitled to appoint at least two &#32;members of our board of directors, NBCU will be entitled to retain a board seat provided that NBCU beneficially owns at least 5% &#32;of our adjusted outstanding common stock as computed under the amended and restated shareholder agreement described below. Furthermore, GE has also agreed to obtain the consent of NBCU prior to consenting to our adoption of any shareholders rights plan or certain other actions that would impede or restrict the ability of NBCU to acquire or dispose of shares of our voting stock or our taking any action that would result in NBCU being deemed to be in violation of the Federal Communications Commission multiple ownership regulations. As of January 30, 2016 GE Equity has an approximate 6% &#32;beneficial ownership in the Company. 

In an SEC filing made on August 18, 2015, GE Equity disclosed that on August 14, 2015, it and ASF Radio, L.P. ("ASF Radio"), an independent third party to us, entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement pursuant to which GE Equity agreed to sell 3,545,049 shares of the Company's common stock, which is all of the shares GE Equity currently owns, to ASF Radio for $2.15 per share. The closing of the sale is subject to certain conditions and was scheduled for October 15, 2015. According to the SEC filing, ASF Radio is an affiliate of Ardian, an independent private equity investment company. As of March 28, 2016 , the sale has not yet closed. 

Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement 

The GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement provides that GE Equity is entitled to designate nominees for three &#32;members of our board of directors so long as the aggregate beneficial ownership of GE Equity and NBCU (and their affiliates) is at least equal to 50% &#32;of their beneficial ownership as of February 25, 2009 (i.e., beneficial ownership of approximately 8.7 million &#32;common shares) (the "50% Ownership Condition"), and two &#32;members of our board of directors so long as their aggregate beneficial ownership is at least 10% &#32;of the shares of "adjusted outstanding common stock," as defined in the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement (the "10% Ownership Condition"). In addition, the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement provides that GE Equity may designate any of its director-designees to be an observer of the audit, human resources and compensation, and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors. Neither GE Equity nor NBCU currently has any designees serving on our board of directors or committees. Upon the closing of the GE/ASF Radio Sale, the 50% Ownership Condition will no longer be met; however, we expect that the 10% Ownership Condition will continue to be met and therefore, following the closing of the GE/ASF Radio Sale, NBCU and its affiliates will continue to be entitled to designate nominees for two members of our board of directors. 

The GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement requires that we obtain the consent of GE Equity before we (i) exceed certain thresholds relating to the issuance of securities, the payment of dividends, the repurchase or redemption of common stock, acquisitions (including investments and joint ventures) or dispositions, and the incurrence of debt; (ii) enter into any business different than the business in which we and our subsidiaries are currently engaged; and (iii) amend our articles of incorporation to adversely affect GE Equity and NBCU (or their affiliates); provided, however, that these restrictions will no longer apply when both (1) GE Equity is no longer entitled to designate three director nominees and (2) GE Equity and NBCU no longer hold any Series B preferred stock. We are also prohibited from taking any action that would cause any ownership interest by us in television broadcast stations from being attributable to GE Equity, NBCU or their affiliates. We redeemed all of the Series B preferred stock in April 2011 and, upon the closing of the GE/ASF Radio Sale, the 50% Ownership Condition will no longer be met. Therefore, GE Equity will no longer be entitled to these consent rights following the closing of the GE/ASF Radio Sale. 

The GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement further provides that during the "standstill period" (as described below), subject to certain limited exceptions, GE Equity and NBCU are prohibited from: (i) making any asset/business purchases from us in excess of 10% &#32;of the total fair market value of our assets; (ii) increasing their beneficial ownership above 39.9% &#32;of our shares; (iii) making or in any way participating in any solicitation of proxies; (iv) depositing any securities of the Company in a voting trust; (v) forming, joining or in any way becoming a member of a "13D Group" with respect to any voting securities of the Company; (vi) arranging any financing for, or providing any financing commitment specifically for, the purchase of any voting securities of the Company; or (vii) otherwise acting, whether alone or in concert with others, to seek to propose to us any tender or exchange offer, merger, business combination, restructuring, liquidation, recapitalization or similar transaction involving us, or nominating any person as a director of the Company who is not nominated by the then incumbent directors, or proposing any matter to be voted upon by our shareholders. If, during the standstill period, any inquiry has been made regarding a "takeover transaction" or "change in control," each as defined in the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement, that has not been rejected by our board of directors, or our board of directors pursues such a transaction, or engages in negotiations or provides information to a third party and the board of directors has not resolved to terminate such discussions, then GE Equity or NBCU may propose a tender offer or business combination proposal to us. 

&#32;7 

In addition, unless GE Equity and NBCU beneficially own less than 5% &#32;or more than 90% &#32;of the adjusted outstanding shares of common stock, GE Equity and NBCU may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any securities of the Company subject to limited exceptions for (i) transfers to affiliates, (ii) third party tender offers, (iii) mergers, consolidations and reorganizations and (iv) transfers pursuant to underwritten public offerings or transfers exempt from registration under the Securities Act (provided, in the case of (iii), such transfers do not result in the transferee acquiring beneficial ownership in excess of 10% &#32;(or 20% &#32;in the case of a transfer by NBCU)). As discussed above, we believe that NBCU owns more than 5% but less than 90% of the adjusted outstanding shares of our common stock and therefore, NBCU will remain subject to these restrictions following the consummation of the GE/ASF Radio Sale. 

The standstill period will terminate on the earliest to occur of (i) the ten -year anniversary of the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement, (ii) our entering into an agreement that would result in a "change in control" (as defined in the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement and subject to reinstatement), (iii) an actual "change in control" (subject to reinstatement), (iv) a third-party tender offer (subject to reinstatement), or (v) six &#32;months after GE Equity can no longer designate any nominees to our board of directors. Following the expiration of the standstill period pursuant to clause (i) above and two &#32;years in the case of clause (v) above, GE Equity and NBCU&#8217;s beneficial ownership position may not exceed 39.9% &#32;of our adjusted outstanding shares of common stock, except pursuant to issuances or exercises of any warrants or pursuant to a 100% &#32;tender offer for us. 

Registration Rights Agreement 

On February 25, 2009, we entered into an amended and restated registration rights agreement providing GE Equity, NBCU and their affiliates and any transferees and assigns, an aggregate of four demand registrations and unlimited piggy-back registration rights. In addition, NBCU was subsequently granted one additional demand registration right pursuant to the second amendment of the now expired NBCU trademark license agreement. 

2015 Letter Agreement with GE Equity 

On July 9, 2015, we entered into a letter agreement with GE Equity pursuant to which GE Equity consented to our adoption of a Shareholder Rights Plan in consideration for our agreement to provide GE Equity, NBCU and certain of their respective affiliates with exemptions from the Shareholder Rights Plan. GE&#8217;s consent was required pursuant to the terms of the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement. This discussion is a summary of the terms of the letter agreement. For more information about the Shareholder Rights Plan see Item 5 below. 

In the letter agreement, we agreed that if any of GE Equity, NBCU or any of their respective affiliates that holds shares of our common stock from time to time (each a &#8220;Grandfathered Investor&#8221;) sells or otherwise transfers shares of our common stock currently owned by such Grandfathered Investor to any third party identified to us in writing (any such third party, a &#8220;Exempt Purchaser&#8221;), we will take all actions necessary under the Shareholder Rights Plan so that such third party will not be deemed an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Shareholder Rights Plan) by virtue of the acquisition of such shares. We further agreed that, subject to certain limitations, upon request of any Grandfathered Investor or Exempt Purchaser, and in connection with a transfer by such Grandfathered Investor or Exempt Purchaser of shares of our common stock to an Exempt Purchaser, we will enter into an agreement with the acquiring Exempt Purchaser granting such acquiring Exempt Purchaser substantially the same rights as set forth above with respect to any sale of our outstanding shares of common stock to any other third party. Additionally, we agreed that without the consent of any Grandfathered Investor that is an affiliate of GE Equity and any Grandfathered Investor that is an affiliate of NBCU, we will not (i) amend the Shareholder Rights Plan in any material respect, other than to accelerate the Expiration Date or the Final Expiration Date, (ii) adopt another shareholders' rights plan or (iii) amend the letter agreement. 

The foregoing summaries of the GE/NBCU Shareholder Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the 2015 letter agreement with GE Equity do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements, which have been filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. 

&#32;8 

E. Marketing and Merchandising 

Television and Online Retailing 

Our television and online revenues are generated from sales of merchandise offered through our "Shop.Share.Smile" initiative, which includes cable and satellite television, online at evine.com, mobile devices and social media channels. Our television shopping business utilizes live and on occasion selected taped television programming 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to create an interactive, entertaining, and engaging atmosphere that brings our merchandise to life through demonstration. Our product strategy is to continue to develop and expand new product offerings across multiple merchandise categories based on customer demand, as well as to offer competitive pricing and special values in order to attract new customers and optimize margin dollars per minute. Our digital commerce customers - those who interact with our network and transact through television, online and mobile devices - are primarily women between the ages of 40 and 70. We also have a strong presence of male customers of a similar age range. We believe our customers make purchases based on our unique products, quality merchandise and value. We develop our programming schedule with product categories that appeal to specific viewer and customer profiles targeting days of week and times of day they are most likely to be viewing our network. We feature announced and unannounced promotions to drive interest and incremental sales, including "Today&#8217;s Top Value," a sales promotion that features a special offer every day. In addition, we also feature major and special promotional events and inventory-clearance sales during different times of the year. 

We continually introduce new products that are easily accessible to customers via our television, online and mobile platforms. Inventory sources include manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors and importers. We intend to continue to develop and promote proprietary and exclusive brands, which generally have higher margins than branded merchandise, across multiple product categories. 

EVINE Live Private Label Consumer Credit Card Program 

&#32;In December 2011, we entered into a Private Label Consumer Credit Card Program Agreement Amendment with Synchrony Financial, formerly known as GE Capital Retail Bank, extending our private label consumer credit card program (the "Program") for an additional seven years &#32;until 2018. The Program is made available to all qualified consumers for the financing of purchases of products from EVINE Live and provides a number of benefits to customers including instant purchase credits and free or reduced shipping promotions throughout the year. Use of the EVINE Live credit card furthers customer loyalty, reduces total credit card expense and reduces our overall bad debt exposure since the credit card issuing bank bears the risk of loss on EVINE Live credit card transactions that do not utilize our ValuePay installment payment program. During fiscal 2015 and 2014 , customer use of the private label consumer credit card accounted for approximately 18% &#32;of our television and online sales. 

Synchrony Financial, the issuing bank for the Program, was previously indirectly majority-owned by the General Electric Company ("GE"), which is also the parent company of GE Equity. We believe as of January 30, 2016, GE Equity had an approximate 6% &#32;beneficial ownership in us and has certain rights as further described under "Relationship with GE Equity, Comcast and NBCU". 

Purchasing Terms 

We obtain products for our digital commerce businesses from domestic and foreign manufacturers and/or their suppliers and are often able to make purchases on more favorable terms based on the volume of products purchased or sold. Some of our purchasing arrangements with our vendors include inventory terms that allow for return privileges for a portion of the order or stock balancing. We generally do not have long-term commitments with our vendors, and a variety of sources are available for each category of merchandise sold. During fiscal 2015 , products purchased from one vendor accounted for approximately 16% &#32;of our consolidated net sales. We believe that we could find alternative products for this vendor&#8217;s merchandise assortment if this vendor ceased supplying merchandise; however, the unanticipated loss of any large supplier could impact our sales and earnings. 

F. Order Entry, Fulfillment and Customer Service 

Our products are available for purchase via toll-free telephone numbers, on our website or through mobile platforms. We maintain agreements with third party call surge providers to support us with telephone order-entry operators and automated order-processing services to take customer orders. We also take orders with our own home-based phone agents and with agents at our Bowling Green, Kentucky and Eden Prairie, Minnesota facilities. 

We own a 600,000 square foot distribution facility in Bowling Green, Kentucky, which we use for the fulfillment of primarily all merchandise purchased and sold by us and for certain call center operations. 

During fiscal 2014, we began a significant operational expansion initiative with respect to overall warehousing capacity and new equipment and system technology upgrades at our Bowling Green, Kentucky distribution facility. During the first quarter of 

&#32;9 

fiscal 2015 the new building was substantially completed and we expanded our 262,000 &#32;square foot facility to an approximately 600,000 &#32;square foot facility. Subsequently, during the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we finished the building expansion and moved out of our leased satellite warehouse space. The updated facilities and technology upgrade will include a new high-speed parcel shipping and item sortation system coupled with a new warehouse management system to support our increased level of shipments and units and a new call center facility to better serve our customers. The new sortation and warehouse management systems are expected to be phased into production through the first half of fiscal 2016. 

During the first half fiscal 2015 we also leased approximately 400,000 square feet of additional variable warehouse space in Bowling Green, Kentucky under a month-to-month lease agreement, which allowed for additional capacity, during the construction of our expansion. The leased space was vacated during the first half of fiscal 2015 when the expanded facility was available for use and the lease expired. 

The majority of customer purchases are paid for by credit or debit cards. As discussed above, we maintain a private label credit card program using the EVINE Live name. Purchases and installment charges made with the EVINE Live private label credit card are non-recourse to us, however, we still maintain credit collection risk from the potential inability to collect future ValuePay installments. We also utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay, which entitles customers to pay by credit card for certain merchandise in two or more equal monthly installments. The percentage of our net sales generated utilizing our ValuePay payment program over the past three fiscal years ranged from 71% to 77% . We intend to continue to sell merchandise using the ValuePay program due to its significant promotional value. 

We maintain a product inventory, which consists primarily of consumer merchandise held for resale. The product inventory is valued at the lower of average cost or realizable value. As of January 30, 2016 &#32;and January 31, 2015 , we had inventory balances of $65.8 million &#32;and $61.5 million , respectively. We do not have any material amounts of backlog orders. 

Merchandise is shipped to customers by the United States Postal Service, UPS, Federal Express or other recognized carriers. We also have arrangements with certain vendors who ship merchandise directly to our customers after an approved customer order is processed. 

We perform our customer service functions primarily at our Eden Prairie, Minnesota and Bowling Green, Kentucky facilities as well as with our own home-based phone agents. 

Our return policy allows a standard 30-day refund period from the date of invoice for all customer purchases. Our return rate averaged 20% &#32;in fiscal 2015 &#32;and 22% in fiscal 2014 . We continue to monitor our return rates in an effort to keep our overall return rates in line and commensurate with our current product sales mix and our average selling price levels. 

G. Competition 

The digital commerce retail business is highly competitive and we are in direct competition with numerous retailers, including online retailers, many of whom are larger, better financed and have a broader customer base than we do. In our television shopping and digital commerce operations, we compete for customers with other television shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional "brick and mortar" department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores and specialty stores; catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers. 

Our direct competitors within the television shopping industry include QVC (owned by Liberty Interactive Corporation), and HSN, Inc. (in whom Liberty Interactive Corporation also has a substantial interest, according to public filings), both of whom are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, and whose programming is carried more broadly to U.S. households, including High Definition bands and multi-channel carriage, than our programming. Multimedia Commerce Group, Inc., which operates Jewelry Television, also competes with us for customers in the jewelry category. Furthermore, on March 8, 2016, Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon") announced the premiere of a live television program, Style Code Live , which features products that viewers can order online. This program, and any additional similar programs that Amazon may offer in the future, may compete with us. In addition, there are a number of smaller niche players and startups in the television shopping arena who compete with us. We believe that our major competitors incur cable and satellite distribution fees representing a significantly lower percentage of their sales attributable to their television programming than we do, and that their fee arrangements are substantially on a commission basis (in some cases with minimum guarantees) rather than on the predominantly fixed-cost basis that we currently have. At our current sales level, our distribution costs as a percentage of total consolidated net sales are higher than those of our competition. However, one of our strategies is to maintain our fixed distribution cost structure in order to leverage our profitability. 

We anticipate continued competition for viewers and customers, for experienced television shopping and e-commerce personnel, for distribution agreements with cable and satellite systems and for vendors and suppliers - not only from television shopping companies, but also from other companies that seek to enter the television shopping and online retail industries, including telecommunications and cable companies, television networks, and other established retailers. We believe that our ability to be 

&#32;10 

successful in the digital commerce industry will be dependent on a number of key factors, including continuing to expand our digital footprint to meet our customers' "watch and shop anytime, anywhere" needs, increasing the number of customers who purchase products from us and increasing the dollar value of sales per customer from our existing customer base. 

H. Federal Regulation 

The cable television industry and the broadcasting industry in general are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. The following does not purport to be a complete summary of all of the provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, known as the Communications Act; the Cable Television Consumer Protection Act of 1992, known as the Cable Act; the Telecommunications Act of 1996, known as the Telecommunications Act; or other laws and FCC rules or policies that may affect our operations. 

Cable Television 

The cable industry is regulated by the FCC under the Cable Act and FCC regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as by state or local governments with respect to certain franchising matters. 

Must Carry. In general, the FCC's "must carry" rules entitle full power television stations to mandatory carriage of the primary video and program-related material in their signals, at no charge, to all cable and direct broadcast satellite homes located within each station's broadcast market provided that the signal is of adequate strength, and, in the case of cable systems, the must carry signals occupy no more than one-third of the cable system's capacity. 

Broadcast Television 

General. Our acquisition and operation of television stations is subject to FCC regulation under the Communications Act. The Communications Act prohibits the operation of television broadcasting stations except under a license issued by the FCC. The statute empowers the FCC, among other things, to issue, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses, adopt regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act and impose penalties for violation of such regulations. Such regulations impose certain obligations with respect to the programming and operation of television stations, including requirements for carriage of children&#8217;s educational and informational programming, programming responsive to local problems, needs and interests, advertising upon request by legally qualified candidates for federal office, closed captioning, and other matters. In addition, FCC rules prohibit foreign governments, representatives of foreign governments, aliens (a non U.S. citizen or U.S. national) representatives of aliens and corporations and partnerships organized under the laws of a foreign nation from holding broadcast licenses. Aliens may own up to 20% of the capital stock of a licensee corporation, or generally up to 25% of a U.S. corporation, which, in turn, has a controlling interest in a licensee. The FCC in 2013 indicated that it would consider a waiver of these limits for broadcast ownership. 

Full Power Television Stations. In April 2003, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries acquired a full power television station serving the Boston, Massachusetts market. On September 11, 2015, the FCC granted our application for renewal of the station&#8217;s license. We also distribute our programming via leased carriage on a full power television station in Seattle, Washington. Our Boston market station, WWDP TV, currently broadcasts in a digital format on channel 10, perceived by viewers as channel 46, the station's previous analog channel. The Company is licensee to WWDP (TV), channel 10, a broadcast television station licensed to Norwell, Massachusetts and serving the Boston, MA television market. 

In February 2012, Congress passed legislation that grants the FCC authority to conduct an auction of certain spectrum currently used by television broadcasters. On May 15, 2014, the FCC adopted a Report and Order (the &#8220;2014 Report&#8221;) establishing the framework for an incentive auction of broadcast television spectrum. The 2014 Report created a two part incentive auction framework (the &#8220;Incentive Auction&#8221;). First, the FCC would conduct a reverse auction by which a television broadcaster may volunteer, in return for payment, to relinquish all or a part of its station&#8217;s spectrum by (i) surrendering its license, (ii) relinquishing a portion of its spectrum and thereafter sharing spectrum with another station, or (iii) modifying a UHF channel license to a VHF channel license. Second, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the relinquished spectrum to new users. The FCC must complete the reverse auction and the forward auction by September 30, 2022. Applications to participate in the Incentive Auction were due by January 12, 2016 with bidding scheduled to begin on March 29, 2016. Completion of both parts of the Incentive Auction (reverse and forward) is expected to take up to one year. WWDP(TV) is a high VHF station and has elected to participate in the Incentive Auction. 

To accommodate the spectrum reallocation to new users, the FCC may require that television stations that do not participate in the auction (or that participate but are not selected to sell their spectrum) modify their transmission facilities. The FCC is required to use &#8220;reasonable efforts&#8221; to preserve a station&#8217;s coverage area and population served, and this prevents the FCC from requiring that a station involuntarily move from the UHF band to the VHF band or from the high VHF band to the low VHF band. The underlying legislation authorizes the FCC to reimburse stations for reasonable relocation costs up to a total across all stations of $1.75 billion. If we choose to channel share or if we are required to change the frequency WWDP(TV) uses, we could incur 

&#32;11 

conversion costs that may not be fully reimbursed, or our ability to provide high definition programming and additional program streams, including mobile video services, could be constrained. 

&#32;&#32;As a high VHF station, the Company could chose to either relinquish its spectrum or relocate to a low VHF frequency. Such relocation may result in additional expenses and if the Company relinquishes its spectrum, it will have to replace distribution in the Boston, MA market by negotiating with distributors that may not agree to carry the network in the market. 

We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or outcome of any court, Congressional or FCC regulatory action with respect to the Incentive Auction, or repacking of broadcast television spectrum, nor the impact of any such changes upon our business. 

The foregoing does not purport to be a complete summary of the Communications Act, other applicable statutes, or the FCC&#8217;s rules, regulations or policies. Proposals for additional or revised regulations and requirements are pending before, are being considered by, and may in the future be considered by, Congress and federal regulatory agencies from time to time. We cannot predict the effect of any existing or proposed federal legislation, regulations or policies on our business. Also, several of the foregoing matters are now, or may become, the subject of litigation, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation or the effect on our business. 

Product Marketing 

We offer our customers a broad range of merchandise through television, online and mobile. The manner in which we promote and sell our merchandise, including claims and representations made in connection with these efforts, is regulated by a wide variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, policies and procedures. Some examples of these that affect the manner in which we sell and promote merchandise or otherwise operate our businesses include, but are not limited to, the following: 

&#8226; 

The Food and Drug Administration&#8217;s regulations regarding marketing claims that can be made about cosmetic beauty products and over-the-counterdrugs, which include products for treating acne or medical products, and claims that can be made about food products; 

&#8226; 

Regulations related to product safety issues and product recalls including, but not limited to, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substance Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act and regulations promulgated pursuant to these acts; and 

&#8226; 

Laws governing the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally-identifiable information about our customers. 

These laws, regulations, rules, policies and procedures are subject to change at any time. Unfavorable changes applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs which we may not be able to offset, subject us to additional liabilities and/or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. 

I. Intellectual Property 

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, vendors, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of a number of U.S. domain names, trademarks and service marks. 

J. Seasonality and Economic Sensitivity 

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuation, with the highest sales activity normally occurring during our fourth fiscal quarter of the year, namely November through January. Our business is also sensitive to general economic conditions and business conditions affecting consumer spending. Additionally, our television audience (and therefore sales revenue) can be significantly impacted by major world or domestic events which attract television viewership and divert audience attention away from our programming. 

K. Employees 

At January 30, 2016 , we had approximately 1,300 &#32;employees, the majority of whom are employed in customer service, order fulfillment and television production. Approximately 13% &#32;of our employees work part-time. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement with respect to our employees. 

&#32;12 

L. Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Set forth below are the names, ages and titles of the persons serving as our executive officers. 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position(s) Held 

Robert Rosenblatt 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman &#38; Interim Chief Executive Officer 

Timothy A. Peterman 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President &#8212; Chief Financial Officer 

Damon E. Schramm 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President &#8212; General Counsel and Secretary 

Jean-Guillaume Sabatier 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President &#8212; Sales &#38; Product Planning and Programming 

Nicholas J. Vassallo 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President &#8212; Corporate Controller 

Jaime B. Nielsen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President &#8212; Human Resources 

Robert Rosenblatt &#32;joined the Company in June 2014 as Chairman of the Board. In February 2016, he was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer. Previously, Mr. Rosenblatt served as Chief Executive Officer of Rosenblatt Consulting, LLC, a private company he formed in 2006, which specializes in helping investment firms determine value in both public and private consumer companies as well as helping retail firms bring their product to market. From 2012 to 2013, Mr. Rosenblatt served as the interim President of ideeli Inc., a members-only e-retailer that sells women's fashion and d&#233;cor items during limited-time sales. From 2004 to 2006, he was Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Tommy Hilfiger Corp., a worldwide apparel and retail company. He co-managed the process that culminated in the successful sale of Tommy Hilfiger Corp. to Apax Partners in 2006. From 1997 to 2004, Mr. Rosenblatt was an executive at HSN, Inc., a multi-channel retailer and television network specializing in home shopping. He served as Chief Financial Officer from 1997 to 1999, Chief Operating Officer from 2000 to 2001 and President from 2001 to 2004. Previously, from 1983 to 1996, he was an executive at Bloomingdale's, an upscale chain of department stores owned by Macy's Inc., and served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Stores. He has been and is currently serving on several public and private boards in the retail and technology industry including Newgistics, Inc., RetailNext, debShops, PepBoys (NYSE: PBY) and I.Predictus. Bob also served on the Board of Directors of the Electronic Retailing Association. Mr. Rosenblatt holds a BS in Accounting from of Brooklyn College. 

Timothy A. Peterman joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer in March 2015. Most recently, Mr. Peterman served as the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer for The J. Peterman Company, an ecommerce apparel brand since 2011 until he joined the Company in March 2015. From 2009 to 2011, he served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Synacor, a media technology company. Previously, Mr. Peterman served almost six years at The E.W. Scripps Company in various senior roles, including Senior Vice President of Corporate Development. From 1999 to 2002, he was Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of IAC&#8217;s broadcasting and cable divisions, which included USA Network &#38; Sci-Fi Channel. Mr. Peterman also spent almost six years in senior financial roles at Tribune Company. Mr. Peterman began his career at KPMG in Chicago in 1989, is a CPA and is a graduate of the University of Kentucky. 

Damon E. Schramm was hired as Associate General Counsel in September 2015, and served in that capacity until he was promoted to Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2016. Most recently, Mr. Schramm served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Lakes Entertainment, a publicly traded casino gaming company, from 2005 until he joined the Company in September 2015. Previously, he has served as a Partner at the law firm Gray Plant Mooty. He has also held board seats with the Make-A-Wish Foundation and the Animal Humane Society, among others. Mr. Schramm holds a BA from the University of Minnesota-Duluth and a JD from William Mitchell College of Law. 

Jean-Guillaume Sabatier &#32;joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Sales &#38; Product Planning in November 2008. During fiscal 2012, Mr. Sabatier also led a special projects initiative in the planning area. Mr. Sabatier served as Director, Sales and Product Planning for QVC, Inc., from July 2007 to October 2008. Prior to that time, Mr. Sabatier held various positions in QVC&#8217;s German business unit, including Director, Programming and Planning from July 2003 to July 2007. He began his QVC career as a sales and product planner in June 1997. Mr. Sabatier holds a BS and MBA from West Chester University in Pennsylvania. 

Nicholas J. Vassallo &#32;has served as Vice President and Corporate Controller since 2000, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in October 2015. He first joined the Company as director of financial reporting in October 1996. Mr. Vassallo was named corporate controller in 1999 and the following year was promoted to vice president. Prior to joining the Company, he served as corporate controller for Fourth Shift Corporation, a software development company. Mr. Vassallo began his career with 

&#32;13 

Arthur Anderson, LLP where he spent eight years in their audit practice group. Mr. Vassallo is a CPA and holds a BS in Accounting from Saint John's University in New York. 

Jaime B. Nielsen &#32;has served as Vice President, Human Resources since May 2014, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in October 2015. She first joined the Company as director of human resources in February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, she served as the Senior Human Resources Director with Aimia, Inc., from September 2009 to February 2012. Ms. Nielsen began her career with Carlson Companies where she spent over ten years in various roles within human resources including executive compensation, talent management, organizational effectiveness &#38; organizational design and received a Bachelors of Science degree with an emphasis in Human Resources Management from Kennedy Western University. 

M. Segments and Geographic Information 

We have only one reporting segment, which encompasses digital commerce retailing, and our operations are conducted primarily in the United States. The segment and geographic information required herein is contained in Note 10, "Business Segments and Sales by Product Group", in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. 

N. Available Information 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements, and amendments to these reports if applicable, are available, without charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies also are available, without charge, by contacting the General Counsel, EVINE Live Inc., 6740 Shady Oak Road, Eden Prairie, Minnesota 55344-3433. 

&#32;Our investor relations website address is http://evine.com/ir. Our goal is to maintain the investor relations website as a way for investors to easily find information about us, including press releases, announcements of investor conferences, investor and analyst presentations and corporate governance. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

You may also read and copy these materials at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding us and other companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. 

&#160; 

