 Item 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

&#160;

Organization 

&#160;

Indoor Harvest Corp., or the "Company," is a Texas corporation formed on November 23, 2011. Our principal executive office is located at 5300 East Freeway Suite A, Houston, Texas 77020.

&#160;

Business 

Indoor Harvest Corp, through its brand name Indoor Harvest&#174;, is a full service, state of the art design-build, engineering, procurement and construction firm for the indoor and vertical farming industry. The company provides production platforms, mechanical systems and complete custom designed build outs for both Controlled Environment Agriculture ("CEA") and Building Integrated Agriculture ("BIA"), tailored to the specific needs of virtually any cultivar.

CEA is the process of manipulating any agricultural technology to allow the farmer an ability to manipulate a crop's environment to desired conditions. Technologies include greenhouse production, hydroponics, aquaculture, aquaponics and aeroponics. Controlled variables may include temperature, lighting, humidity, pH and nutrient analysis.

BIA is the process of locating CEA methods on, or in, mixed use buildings to provide synergy with the buildings infrastructure and the agriculture process. Earliest examples of BIA include the use of hydroponics, aeroponics and aquaponics, where waste heat is captured through the buildings existing heating, ventilation and air conditioning system as well as the combined use of solar, rainwater collection and evaporative systems. Current operating examples include such buildings as Eli Zabar's rooftop greenhouse, The Sun Works Center for Environmental Studies, Gotham Greens, Sky Vegetables, Top Sprouts, Cityscape Farms, Dongtan, Masdar City, AeroFarms, Solar 2, Lufa Farms, BrightFarms, FarmedHere, Green Sense Farms, Green Spirit Farms and Big Box Farms. The term building-integrated agriculture was coined by Dr. Ted Caplow in a paper delivered at the 2007 Passive and Low Energy Cooling Conference in Crete, Greece.

We currently offer a vertical farm racking system with integrated LED lighting. Our vertical farm racking system was designed to be used for both aeroponic and hydroponic layered crop production within a CEA or BIA operation. Our racking system will work with any standard 48" X 96" or 24" X 48" third party flood table or aeroponic system. We also offer patent pending aeroponic fixtures that are compatible with our vertical farm racking system. We offer our vertical farm racking system and aeroponic fixtures for use by both horticulture enthusiasts and commercial operators who seek to utilize vertical farming methods within a controlled indoor environment.

Aeroponics is the process of growing plants in an air or mist environment without the use of soil or an aggregate medium (known as geoponics). Aeroponic culture differs from both conventional hydroponics and in-vitro (plant tissue culture) growing. Unlike hydroponics, which uses water as a growing medium and essential minerals to sustain plant growth, aeroponics is conducted without a growing medium. Because water is used in aeroponics to transmit nutrients, it is sometimes considered a type of hydroponics.

The Company generates revenue from vertical farm rack system sales, aeroponic fixture sales and design build construction management services. Our products are designed for the production of aeroponic and hydroponic leafy greens, micro-greens, fruiting plants and herbs. Our fixtures and systems can also be adapted for a variety of other uses such as horticulture research, medicinal plant production, pharmaceutical plant production, plant cloning and hardwood propagation.

In addition to these products, the Company also generates revenue from engineering, procurement and construction management services. Engineering, procurement, and construction management (EPCM) is a common form of contracting arrangement for very large infrastructure and facility projects. Under an EPCM arrangement, the client engages the Company to coordinate all design, procurement and construction work to assure that the whole project is completed as required.

Our Products 

There are currently several different growing technologies being deployed in vertical indoor farming operations. The most common of these technologies include the following: nutrient film technology, ebb and flow systems (flood and drain), drip irrigation, water culture systems, raft systems and aeroponic systems. Aeroponics is a method of growing plants in a sealed environment by suspending plant roots in an automated atomized liquid nutrient environment. Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture and is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil.

The Indoor Harvest&#174; Modular HP-Aeroponics Platform 

&#160;

The system comprises of seven primary fixture components that consist of an Aeroponic Growth Tray, Aeroponic Growth Lid, Aeroponic Spray Manifold, Aeroponic Pressure Manifold, Nutrient Delivery System, Water Reclamation and Recirculation System, and Lift Station. Each of these individual modular fixtures are combined to create custom configurations suitable for any form of indoor growing environment.

&#160;

Initially designed for the production of leafy greens, micro-greens, fruiting plants and herbs, our fixtures can be easily adapted for a variety of other uses, such as horticultural research, medicinal plant production, plant cloning and hardwood propagation. Our platform has been independently tested and has shown the following benefits over a more traditional hydroponic system:

&#183; Up to a 95% reduction in water usage 

&#183; Up to a 70% reduction in fertilizers 

&#183; Accelerated growth rate 

&#183; Increased plant biomass 

&#183; Increased phytochemical content 

&#183; Elimination of growing mediums 

&#183; Sterile production 

The Indoor Harvest&#174; Low Tide VFRack&#8482; Platform 

&#160;

The Low Tide VFRack platform is an easy to install, commercial quality vertical farming system designed for the production of microgreens, leafy greens and herbs. Each Low Tide VFRack&#8482; System comes standard with 4 levels offering up to 128 sqft of production, or can support up to 18 individual 10"X20" trays per layer. The system uses Botanicare 4ft X 8ft ID Low Tide Grow Trays and a 115 gallon or larger reservoir. Each unit comes complete with all pumps, plumbing, LED lighting and is ready to grow, just add plants and nutrients. The modular nature of the system allows for easy expansion.

The Low Tide VFRack system is designed specifically for flood and drain operation and provides the following benefits:

&#183; Integrated LED lighting 

&#183; Open slot face to accommodate unlevel floors 

&#183; Plug and play installation 

&#183; Reduced installation costs 

&#183; Unistrut based platform 

The Indoor Harvest&#174; Shallow Raft VFRack&#8482; Platform 

&#160;

The Shallow Raft VFRack&#8482; platform is an easy to install, commercial quality, shallow raft vertical farming system. Each Shallow Raft VFRack&#8482; System comes standard with three levels, offering 216, 336, 432 and 864 plant sites. The system uses Botanicare 4ft X 8ft ID Grow Trays, 115 gallon or larger reservoir and 2ft X 4ft rafts and is designed for the production of leafy greens and herbs. Each unit comes complete with all pumps, plumbing, LED lighting and is ready to grow, just add plants and nutrients. The modular nature of the system allows for easy expansion.

The Shallow Raft VFRack system is designed specifically for flood and drain operation and provides the following benefits:

&#183; Integrated LED lighting 

&#183; Open slot face to accommodate unlevel floors 

&#183; Plug and play installation 

&#183; Reduced installation costs 

&#183; Unistrut based platform 

Design-Build, Engineering, Procurement and Construction Services 

In addition to the products above, the Company also offers both design build and engineering, procurement and construction management services. Design-Build ("DB"), or Engineering, Procurement, and Construction Management ("EPCM") are both common forms of contracting arrangement to design, construct and deliver large infrastructure and facility projects. Under a DB/EPCM arrangement, the client would engage the Company to coordinate all design, procurement and construction work to ensure that the whole project is completed as required.

DB/EPCM agreements offer the following benefits:

&#183; Custom design and engineering 

&#183; Clear and concise project cost estimates 

&#183; Risk assessment 

&#183; Pre-construction planning and drawings 

&#183; Management of manufacturing and sub-contracting 

&#183; General construction management 

&#183; Turn key operations 

Our two phase DB/EPCM process offers complete design, engineering, procurement and construction services. We discuss with clients their space and crop selections before we offer guidance on production platforms. Our DB/EPCM agreements are designed to begin a risk assessment, production design, including space design if no client side architect is involved. The first phase of a project, also known as the execution phase, which normally follows what is known as a FEED, or Front End Engineering Design phase. The FEED is a basic engineering design used as the basis for the second phase and is required to produce price estimates or a purchase order. The FEED can be divided into separate packages covering different portions of a project and generally requires an upfront deposit to begin. In some cases, the DB/EPCM contract requires us to execute and deliver the project within an agreed time and budget, commonly known as a Lump Sum Turn Key ("LSTK") Contract. In other cases where projects may have many unknown risks, are research and development heavy, or where first-of-its kind equipment is being specified. In these cases, Cost Plus (CP) agreements, which require reimbursement of expenses plus a percent for profit, may be used to spread risk to the client.

Once Phase One design work is complete, we deliver the client a manufacturing and construction estimate and plans. Phase Two includes construction and construction management services. Under a phase two DB/EPCM agreement, our engineers provide detailed engineering design of the project, procure all the equipment and materials necessary, and then construct to deliver a functioning facility or asset to the client. Our platform architects, engineers and project managers examine every aspect of a potential build-out (or upgrade from a legacy platform). We design for a clients crop selection using various hydroponic production methods with a specialty in High Pressure Aeroponic systems. We rigorously test every individual system component (whether designed by us or by one of our technology partners) in our Texas-based R&#38;D facility.

Noesis Financing for Products and Services 

We are able to provide financing for our products and services to qualified clients under an agreement with Noesis, a leading financing provider for sellers of commercial building improvements. Noesis is the chosen financing partner for over 200 industry-leading companies who collectively sell billions of dollars of equipment and services annually. Noesis provides specialized financing with online sales tools to help business grow. Under our agreement with Noesis, we are able to provide qualified clients with the following options:

&#183; 6 Months, No Interest, No Payments. &#160; Ideal for short term financing. For customers that want to pay off the lease within 6 months at 0% financing costs through the proceeds of their sales. 

&#183; 6 months, No Payment. &#160; Deferred Payments, save cash now and not make a payment until month 7. 

&#183; Term Contracts . Lock in a low interest rate and minimize borrowing costs. 

Operational Activities 

On September 18, 2013, the Company entered into a material transfer agreement with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Media Lab ("MIT Media Lab") to provide aeroponic system components and fixtures to be used for the purpose of developing a wall facade aeroponic system as part of MIT Media Lab's Changing Places research. The project, MITCityFarm, will focus on urban mobility networks, decentralized energy infrastructure and transformable housing units to advance urban agricultural systems. Indoor Harvest, Corp. will be responsible for providing technical assistance and materials as a "Technical Systems Adviser" to the MITCityFarm project. This is a demonstration project only. The equipment may only be used for education or not for profit purposes. The Agreement provides that we are providing our equipment at no cost.

On February 20, 2014, we entered into a 62 month lease with Daniel R. Davis, commencing on March 1, 2014 through April 30, 2019, for a total of 10,000 sqft. of warehouse and office space located at 5300A East Freeway, Houston, Texas 77020. The monthly base rent is $4,200 increasing 6% every two years for the term of the lease. The property is adequate for all of the Company's currently planned activities. On March 1, 2014, we relocated our equipment to this leased space and ceased operations at our original research and development facility.

On December 18, 2014, the Company entered into a Cannabis Production Pilot Agreement with Canopy Growth Corporation (formerly Tweed Marijuana Inc.), a Canadian company. Canopy Growth Corporation ("Canopy Growth") is a TSX Venture Exchange listed company. Its wholly owned subsidiaries Tweed Inc., Tweed Farms Inc. (formerly Prime1 Construction Services Corp.) and Bedrocan Canada are licensed producers of medical cannabis in Canada. The principal activities of Canopy Growth are the production and sale of cannabis through its wholly owned subsidiaries as regulated by the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations.

Set forth below is a brief description of the terms and conditions of the Agreement that are material to Indoor Harvest:

The Pilot Project will test the production of Cannabis using an aeroponics system designed by Indoor Harvest. The Pilot Project will make a record of the growth rate, phytocannabinoid production, water usage, fertilizer usage and labor using the aeroponics system(s) provided by Indoor Harvest. The recorded data from the Pilot Project will be compared to Tweed's existing production methods. At the conclusion of the Pilot Project, upon review of the data, Canopy Growth and Indoor Harvest shall jointly secure intellectual property rights for the resulting aeroponics system(s) (at each Party's discretion as to whether they wish to participate in intellectual property filings) and Indoor Harvest will be provided manufacturing rights.

The Pilot Project is broken into two separate phases, as follows:

&#183;

During Phase One, tests will be conducted using equipment initially provided by Indoor Harvest. The purpose of Phase One is to test the initial design and evaluate the root mass development of various strains of Cannabis chosen by Canopy Growth.

&#160;

&#183;

Upon completion of Phase One, Canopy Growth, based on the results of Phase One, will have the option to request Design Build services to be provided by Indoor Harvest. Indoor Harvest will provide these services free of charge. Indoor Harvest will provide projected costs associated with the manufacture and installation of the new aeroponics designs. TweedCanopy Growth will then have the option to purchase equipment from Indoor Harvest based on these projected costs. There is no obligation to purchase equipment under the Agreement.

&#160;

Indoor Harvest will be responsible for providing all the equipment related to the aeroponics system being tested, to include a temporary partitioned testing lab structure to be used within Canopy Growth's existing facilities and the cost associated with delivery and installation of the aeroponics system and testing lab, including design changes and subsequent changes based on feedback from Phase One testing.

Canopy Growth will be responsible for providing adequate space in a Controlled Environment for testing purposes to include water service, local area drain and electrical service. Canopy Growth will also provide the personnel and labor to operate and maintain the equipment provided by Indoor Harvest. Canopy Growth will make a reasonable effort to provide Indoor Harvest with weekly updates to include photographs of the plants being grown and their root development as well as all associated data required under the Agreement.

The Pilot Project shall be conducted for a period (the "Pilot Period") commencing on the date of this Agreement (the "Commencement Date") and ending (the "Termination Date") upon the earlier of (a) the parties' mutual determination that the Pilot Criteria has been satisfied or (b) one year after the Commencement Date. This agreement can be extended if both parties mutually agree in writing.

Upon completion of the Pilot Project, Indoor Harvest and Canopy Growth will jointly apply for patents ("New IP") on the technology developed under the Pilot Agreement. Canopy Growth will be provided exclusive rights to cultivate cannabis using the New IP in Canada and other jurisdictions outside the United States, at a royalty-free rate for the duration of the patent (including any extension of the patent). Indoor Harvest will have exclusive royalty-free rights to cultivate cannabis using the New IP in the United States for the duration of the patent (including any extension of the patent) and will be provided rights to use the New IP in all jurisdictions, royalty-free, for the cultivation of all other species of cultivars, to specifically exclude cultivation of cannabis using the New IP. Indoor Harvest will only have rights to cultivate cannabis in the United States using the New IP. All of these rights are intended to be for commercial production of cultivars.

Indoor Harvest will be provided exclusive manufacturing rights for a period of 10 years on the New IP developed under the agreement. All equipment manufactured by Indoor Harvest will be provided to Canopy Growth by way of a "cost plus agreement" not to exceed 15% allowable for profit.

&#160;

Both parties are responsible for the costs associated with meeting their obligations outlined in this Agreement. Under no circumstance, do Canopy Growth's costs exceed those associated with the cost of plants, labor and general costs of production including water and electricity. However, any costs related to third party laboratory analysis and testing of phytocannabinoids will be shared equally by both parties.

On March 31, 2015 the Company signed a LOI with the City of Pasadena, Texas to fund the establishment and provisioning of an indoor agricultural facility (vertical farm) to be located in Pasadena, Texas. Under the LOI, the City was to provide Indoor Harvest, or a partner of their designation with City approval, with two facilities owned by the City for the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per annum for a period not to exceed twenty (20) years as well as provide tax abatements on these properties for use in the construction of a Community Located Agricultural Research Area ("CLARA") project. In addition, the Pasadena Second Century Corp. (economic development entity for the City of Pasadena) has been asked by City officials to consider a budgetary proposal of $500,000 as seed money for the project's economic development portion in north Pasadena.

The CLARA project is expected to be divided into two phases. Phase One will focus on developing the non-profit aspects of the project and is envisioned to include the construction of a 6,000 sq. ft. vertical farm R&#38;D facility and 6,000 sq. ft. of classroom and office space. Phase Two is envisioned to support a commercial retail operation on approximately two acres of land and additional properties adjacent to the vertical farm and education centers.

The Phase One vertical farm facility is intended to serve dual roles, with Indoor Harvest using the facility as a demonstration farm and R&#38;D facility and Harris County BUILD Partnership, a non-profit group, using the facility for educational and charitable purposes. It is anticipated that the crops grown will be donated, or sold at cost, to provide fresh produce to low income families in the North Pasadena area. The entire proposed campus area, almost two city blocks, will be designed and built to allow the flow of tourists without impacting operations. A project overview was presented in August to department heads at the Pasadena Independent School District's Kirk Lewis Career &#38; Technical High School and the Continuing and Professional Development Department of San Jacinto College regarding academic curriculum development to be located at the CLARA campus.

Phase Two of the project is anticipated to be developed on two acres of land and additional buildings currently available adjacent to the existing properties being provided by the City. Indoor Harvest, as the primary developer of the campus, expects to be able to provide commercial operators who build on the CLARA campus a unique group of incentives and key advantages in regards to distribution, manufacturing intelligence and access to resourcing and key agricultural production talent. The City of Pasadena is currently working to secure additional land surrounding the CLARA campus for use by commercial partners.

In addition, City officials are currently considering creating a tax increment reinvestment zone (TIRZ) in the immediate area surrounding the CLARA campus. A TIRZ is a public financing structure that Texas law allows to target tax revenue helping to support redevelopment in underserved areas. Such a zone, if created, could provide an additional economic incentive for tangential services to locate on the project site. As of now, the City is not obligated to create a TIRZ zone and no such zone may ever come to fruition.

On April 15, 2015, the Company signed a LOI with PUE 1.0. Under the terms of the letter of intent, it is anticipated that a final agreement will include the following terms: Indoor Harvest will be responsible for the design of a vertical farming system and its related systems. PUE 1.0 will be responsible for the design of a HVAC system to be used with Indoor Harvest's vertical farming design. Both parties have agreed to share any data during the development stage. PUE 1.0 will retain all rights to its intellectual property and any new intellectual property developed as part of the collaboration. Indoor Harvest will be provided exclusive rights to market and distribute the final design for a period to be determined by way of a memorandum of understanding, to be finalized in connection with the closing of terms outlined in our letter of intent with the City of Pasadena. During the development stage, all equipment to be provided by PUE 1.0 for the purpose of the technology and economic pilot to be constructed at the 112 N Walter property will be provided at cost.

On December 1, 2015, the City of Pasadena, Texas, unanimously voted in favor of a Chapter 380 Economic Development Agreement with Indoor Harvest for the purpose of establishing CLARA, an open source, vertical farm and education campus on the City&#8217;s north side.

The agreement relates to an indoor vertical farming facility to be utilized in research, testing and prototyping of hydroponic and aeroponic plant nutrient growing systems, and as a showroom of the various equipment/technology used in these environments. It will contain such growing areas as deemed appropriate to provide proof-of-concept for Indoor Harvest design and engineering, and education facilities, classrooms or other areas where training in vertical farm management may be accomplished.

The effective date of the transfer of the City facilities to the constructive use of Indoor Harvest or its assigns, and the binding of Indoor Harvest and the City to all terms of this agreement, will commence on the date Indoor Harvest certifies in writing that an adequate level of funding exists [$4.0 million or a lesser sum Indoor Harvest agrees to and the certification of such funding being sufficient to undertake the repurposing of the City buildings and to commence the operations envisioned by the agreement no later than April 15, 2016]. Unless and until such written certification is presented by Indoor Harvest to the City, this agreement is contemplative of future agreement only but is not binding on either party.

The entire duration of the agreement period when conditions and performance requirements are adequately met by both parties.

Under the agreement, Indoor Harvest agreed to the following:

&#183; Manage all activities directly related to engineering and product design development and to be held liable for capital expenditures to produce designs, build, install, source crop genetics and establish and maintain system settings. 

&#183; Pay ongoing costs for production from seed to packaging, Indoor Harvest equipment and resources, and building maintenance. 

&#183; Coordinate harvesting, packaging suppliers and branded elements as required providing equitable distribution of available produce, crops, plants and like agricultural products shall be guided by the BUILD partnership&#8217;s policy goals, to be made in consideration of specific growing cycles, research priorities and unforeseen exigencies. 

The City of Pasadena will provide both facilities named above for the sum of $10 per annum for a period not to exceed twenty (20) years to Indoor Harvest. As additional consideration for Indoor Harvest&#8217;s performance of its obligations under this Agreement, for a period of ten (10) years beginning January 1, 2017 and ending December 31, 2027, the City will rebate property taxes levied by the City and paid by Indoor Harvest on all personal property acquired and installed within said facilities each calendar year and any property taxes paid by Indoor Harvest on the increase in the value of the land associated therewith.

On December 14, 2015 we entered into an agreement with Noesis to provide financing programs for our products and services. Under the agreement, the Company will be provided access to multiple Noesis lenders that support lease/loan vehicles tailored for HVAC, lighting &#38; controls, building equipment, municipalities and specialty projects. In addition, the Company is provided loan/lease vehicles for solar, energy service agreements and PACE vehicles. The Noesis platform provides a back end proposal and quoting support system that integrates into the Company's client sales platform. The Noesis platform provides the following benefits:

&#183; Promotional programs and low interest payment plans. Lowest municipal rates. Custom credit products and programs. All to meet the unique needs of commercial EE equipment buyers. 

&#183; 100% online process with approvals often in less than 2 hours. High approval rates. No financials if amount under $250K. Funding within days. 

&#183; Finance equipment and soft costs (engineering, installation, etc.). No money out of pocket for borrower. 

&#183; One page summary of your projects business case. Tells the why they should do the project and how they can pay for it. 

&#183; Co-branded collateral and other sales resources to let your customers know you offer attractive payment options. 

&#183; Auto generated webpage for your project, with easy-to-read charts and graphs, estimated payments, online document storage and other features. 

On December 17, 2015 we entered into a design partnership with Freight Farms to jointly explore new cultivar platforms. Freight Farms, makers of the Leafy Green Machine shipping container farms, will leverage Indoor Harvest&#8217;s unique expertise as the leading design-build firm of indoor farms to explore innovative new applications for its Leafy Green Machine. Freight Farms launched in 2010 to create a more sustainable and connected food system by creating highly sustainable farms in shipping containers. To date, there are more than 108 farmers across the United States and Canada utilizing Freight Farms to bring fresh, local produce directly into their communities. Currently, the farms can be used to grow varieties of lettuces, brassicas and herbs.

The companies will work together to explore how Freight Farms&#8217; containerized approach to indoor farming could be deployed in new ways to reach into untapped markets, including those internationally, as well as applications for non-profits and pharmaceutical research. Freight Farms is already deployed by academic institutions, restaurants, wholesale produce distributors and small business owners.

&#160;

On January 27, 2016 the Company entered into a Memorandum of Agreement ("MOA") with IGES Canada Ltd. ("IGESCA"), a Canadian company that is a technology solution integrator in the vertical farming market. The MOA sets forth terms for a relationship between the Company and IGESCA to grow, market and sell vertical farming solutions globally.

Subject to the terms of the MOU, IGESCA and Indoor Harvest agree to partner to market and sell Indoor Harvest's solutions in conjunction with the IGESCA business platform to clients globally. Our responsibilities include Delivering Turnkey Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) solutions for CEA facilities, ongoing support and access to financing options through Noesis for designated projects. The responsibilities of IGESCA include identifying new and concluding project engagements from the current potential portfolio of 15 facilities, ongoing operations and regulatory navigation.

Both Indoor Harvest and IGESCA agree that any intellectual property, which is jointly developed and filed through activities covered under this MOA, can be used by either party for sales/marketing purposes with the consent of the other party which can be set forth in initial guidance. All other intellectual property used in the implementation of the MOA will remain the property of the party that provided it. This property can be used by either party for purposes covered by the MOA but consent will be obtained from the owner of the property before using it for purposes not covered by the MOA. The MOA shall remain in effect for a period of three (3) years from that date signing unless earlier terminated.

Research and Development 

From September 18, 2012 through October 31, 2012, we completed an initial prototype system test by growing 110 basil plants. The test resulted in an average 1.7 lbs of basil per square foot in 30 days using under 2 gallons of water per plant drain to waste. Upon completion of the test, we made design changes to our lid system and nutrient dispensing system prototypes.

From March 8, 2013 through April 8, 2013, we completed a second prototype system test by growing 110 heads of leafy lettuce to include three types of lettuce, bibb lettuce, buttercrunch lettuce and romaine lettuce. The test resulted in an average head weight of 1/4 lbs in 28 days and water use of under 3 gallons per head drain to waste. Upon completion of the test, we made design changes to our lighting system, updated the framing system and put two prototype grow trays into vertical operation.

From July 13, 2013 through August 22, 2013, we completed a third prototype system test by growing 220 heads of leafy lettuce to include four types of lettuce, bibb lettuce, buttercrunch lettuce, romaine lettuce and ruby red lettuce. The test resulted in average head weight of 1/4 lbs in 30 days and 1/2 lbs in 40 days. During this period the Company also conducted research and development of lighting and controls, comparing the performance of LED lighting and T5 fluorescent lighting. Also during this period the Company tested its second nutrient dispensing prototype running two vertically stacked grow trays simultaneously.

In January 2015, we began construction of a controlled environment testing facility. The facility will be used to test production yields for a variety of cultivars using both our aeroponic and vertical farm framing designs. This data will then be used to develop business plans and marketing materials for our product and services. As of the date of this report, we had completed the walls and partitions, area drainage and flooring. We expect to begin installing the ventilation, climate controls and research platforms in the third quarter of 2016.

From February 19 through March 7, 2015, the Company completed installation of three mobile research labs at Canopy Growth's, subsidiary Tweed located in Smith Falls Canada per a Cannabis Production Pilot Agreement between the two Companies.

The initial Cannabis Production Pilot took place between March and August 2015. A sativa dominant strain, Ghost Train Haze, was selected and 8 plants were grown in a 4' X 8' X 2' system using a "Screen of Green" cultivation method, in which plants are cropped and trained to produce a higher yield from a single plant. The Company's patent pending aeroponic system showed a significant increase in growth rate during the vegetative stage, as compared to more traditional production methods such as drip irrigation using coco.

Fertilizer usage was reduced by as much as 68% over Canopy Growth's existing production with the aeroponic system averaging 8 gallons a day under high pressure sodium and 9 gallons a day under LED, operating drain to waste. As tuning of the system progressed, average water use was reduced to approximately 5 gallons per day drain to waste. The Company believes that through additional tuning, more water savings for drain to waste and under recirculated operation can be achieved, and water use could be reduced by as much as 98% overall. Under 2,000 watts of high-pressure sodium lighting, the aeroponic system produced 3.1 pounds of dried flowers and under 1,040 watts of LED lighting produced 2.8 pounds of dried flowers in its initial test. The Company believes that with additional tuning, yield can be increased.

On September 28, 2015, the Company and Canopy Growth mutually agreed to extend collaborative research and development for an additional two years.

On December 10, 2015, we began a second pilot under our Cannabis Production Pilot Agreement with Canopy Growth. The results from this second pilot are expected on or before April 30, 2016.

&#160;

Plan of Expanded Operations 

Our plan of expanded operations for the next 12 months, assuming we secure the necessary funding, are set forth in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below.

&#160;

Potential Customers 

We believe, based on our own formal and informal research that our products and services appeal to three distinct markets. Those markets include business-to-business clients, commercial growers and horticulture researchers who are currently using areoponics or other indoor growing technologies. We intend to market our products to these markets simultaneously. The following is a description of these markets.

Business-to-Business Clients - We currently have business-to-business ("B2B") relationships with Illumitex, Inc., Freight Farms, Inc. and IGES Canada Ltd.. B2B is a type of commerce transaction that exists between businesses, such as those involving a manufacturer and wholesaler, or a wholesaler and a retailer. B2B refers to business that is conducted between companies, rather than between a company and individual consumers. In addition to direct relationships, the Company has reseller, authorized dealer agreements with Hy-Light Group, Inc. and Hortistructure, Inc.. The Company expects to add additional B2B clients as well as expand its reseller and authorized dealer programs.

Commercial Growers - Commercial agriculture is beginning to migrate to CEA and BIA. We believe that our products and services provide an affordable vertical farming and turn-key facility solutions for urban commercial growers who produce for local restaurants, hotels, wholesale and retail markets. Our systems can also be used in re-forestation projects or other revitalization projects through the system's ability to clone and propagate a variety of plant cuttings and hardwood cuttings.

Horticulture Researchers - The modular nature of our system design and custom fabrication abilities allow for numerous configurations from the same system. Our platform provides a variety of aeroponic delivery methods and plant support structures from the same system. This provides maximum flexibility to researchers who are experimenting with different plant species and are attempting to keep costs down.

Currently, our potential client base is nearly evenly split, with 44% in Cannabis and 56% in edible produce production. We believe that cannabis has the potential to be a large market for our equipment. We are currently developing and offering products which could be specifically used in the production of cannabis under our agreement with Canopy Growth in Canada, where cannabis is legal throughout the country. We will only directly enter that market outside the U.S. where cannabis is legal, such as in Canada, and in the U.S. only in jurisdictions where cannabis is legal and only then if we do not believe there is any material likelihood that we could be found in violation of federal law in the U. S. through the sale of our products. See "Government Regulation and Certification," below.

Marketing 

&#160;

The company intends to offer its products to B2B clients, through authorized dealer groups and resellers, as well as offering direct commercial sales and design-build, engineering, procurement and construction services from our website. As of the date of this filing, we have one oral agreement with a distributor and four written agreements with B2B clients. We are currently developing our marketing plan, which may include some or all of the following marketing methods:

Direct Mail - The use of direct mail allows us to reach a wide audience within a targeted market. A direct mail campaign may consist of a letter of introduction and a brochure featuring the products and services provided by the Company.

Internet Marketing - The Company intends to utilize social networks such as YouTube and Facebook as well as reaching out to industry bloggers and news sites in order to reach potential customers. The company can also sponsor, or advertise with hydroponic and other related horticulture online forums, social networks and online magazines. The Company, in the future, plans to offer its products for sale via the internet.

The company intends to launch a social media network under the domain name aerofarmer.com. The company intends to host forums, articles and blogs related specifically to aeroponic indoor farming while also offering a retail sales point for its products and services.

Trade Shows and Special Events - The Company intends to participate in industry trade shows and events in order to create market awareness for its products and services.

We intend to market our products to customers desiring to grow all varieties of agricultural products. We do not intend to exclude the growers of any agricultural products, including cannabis, from our marketing efforts. As of the date of this report, we are developing and offering fixtures specifically for cannabis production in Canada under our agreement with Canopy Growth. All of our current fixtures can be adapted for use by cannabis growers. In the future we may develop additional fixtures, or be contracted to design additional systems, specifically for cannabis production. Marketing our products in the U.S. in state and local jurisdictions where marijuana is legal is still uncertain due to the uncertain legal status of the growth, sale and use of cannabis due to conflicting laws under which what is illegal federally is to varying extents legal under certain state laws to the contrary [and even greater uncertainty as to what would constitute ancillary illegal activities such as aiding or abetting if any such direct actions are deemed illegal; and even if direct illegality laws were enforced, whether any ancillary related laws such as aiding and abetting would, if ever, be enforced]. We believe that if the cannabis industry were to become fully legal under both U.S. federal and state law, then this industry may well be where the most advances in technology related to our products could come from. We are also working on developing cannabis-specific products in Canada under our agreement with Canopy Growth. Thus, it is not unreasonable, but is not certain, to assume that the cannabis industry will become the biggest market for the type of equipment that we manufacture.

&#160;

Our Competition and Our Market Position 

The vertical farming industry is estimated to reach $3.88 Billion by 2020, at a CAGR of 30.7% between 2015 and 2020 based on a report by MarketsandMarkets, the world's No. 2 firm in terms of annually published premium market research reports. &#160; There are several Companies operating vertical farms that are offering licensing and franchises based on proprietary systems and production methods. These Companies include Aerofarms, Truleaf, FarmedHere, UrbanBarns, Green Sense Farms and Green Spirit Farms. These Companies offer a turn-key platform and operation. We believe that this approach limits a clients options and burdens them with licensing and branding restrictions. We approach every client as an individual project and are able to offer a wide range of technologies and production methods. It is imperative that these competitors maintain control over production data to justify licensing. We believe the industry is moving towards open data and open source technologies that will reduce the advantage of individual licensing of production methods and platforms. We believe our design-build approach and utilization of open data of production and flexibility in system design provides us a competitive advantage. 

There are two main manufacturers that currently manufacture high pressure aeroponic systems. They are Agrihouse&#8482; and Aerofarms&#8482;. These companies are currently engaged in the manufacture and sales of commercial aeroponic vertical farming systems. These systems can only be used in a single mode with high pressure aeroponics and offer limited sizing options. Our system is capable of operating in dual modes, both LPA and HPA, and our AGT fixture is available in optional sizes that our competitors currently do not offer. There are also companies such as general Hydroponics&#174; and Botanicare&#174; that manufacture aeroponic and hydroponic growing systems for the hobbyist. These systems are only available in low pressure aeroponics and require individual reservoirs. They also are offered in limited sizes and are not designed for vertical operation. These systems only provide a single mode of operation.

We will be a small competitor in the industry. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do.

We believe based upon management's knowledge of the industry that we are the first company to develop and offer a fixture based vertical farming platform. Instead of relying on a complete engineered system, we have developed individual fixtures that can be used in whole, or in part, to create a variety of modular vertical farming systems of any scale, or size. By breaking our platform down into individual, independent fixtures, we offer a level of custom ability that currently is not offered by our competitors.

Our fixtures can be used individually, or incorporated into do-it-yourself designed systems that many smaller commercial operators chose to build. This allows us to not only compete for sales to commercial growers who are developing their own systems, but also with growers who are looking for a complete system. We believe this will allow us to increases our market share and allows us to benefit from both commercial and retail sales. When combined with our engineering, procurement and construction management services, we can offer custom, turn-key facilities.

Current Projects 

&#160;

Late in the third quarter of 2015, the Company began offering its products and services to clients in the indoor farming industry.

Equipment Sales

In October, 2015, we received a $8,110 deposit towards a $16,220 equipment package for a custom designed shallow raft platform for a research project in Michigan.

In November, 2015, we received an order for a $89,200 equipment and installation package for our Low Tide VFRack system for a small owner-operator indoor microgreen farm. Installation was completed in December 2015.

In March, 2016, we received an order for discounted equipment to be used by the Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering department at the University of Arizona. We agreed to provide equipment at cost for this project with $13,637 invoiced to date.

Design-Build, EPCM Agreements

On October 6, 2015, we entered into a design-build, EPCM, cost plus, original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") agreement, with a specialty building integrated agricultural cultivation facility in Colorado. The design-build agreement is to develop a 2,000 square foot customer specified platform and to provide pricing for OEM services. On October 26, 2015, an earnest money deposit of $5,000 was paid to begin design work. Design work was completed in January 2016 and we are now currently in discussions with the client to move towards prototyping and providing OEM services for all of their facilities. 

&#160;

On October 15, 2015, we entered into a design-build, EPCM, cost plus agreement, to engineer the cultivation and mechanical systems for a 38,000 square foot, building integrated agricultural cannabis production facility in Maryland. On October 21, 2015, an earnest money deposit of $10,000 was paid to begin initial assessments. The project is currently on hold due to delays in the Maryland cannabis licensing process. The client was given an initial estimate assessment of $3.4 million to complete the project prior to signing the design-build, EPCM, cost plus agreement. 

&#160;

On March 8, 2016, we entered into a design-build, EPCM contract for a 7,000 sq. ft. cannabis production facility in Alaska. The contract includes an EPCM agreement for HVAC, LED lighting and facility controls. The contract also includes an equipment schedule to provide 59 HPA units, 3 process skids with an estimated (not to exceed) contract price of $446,220, which included a $35,000 deposit to begin design work. Upon completion of the first phase of design work, additional pricing will be provided to the client for HVAC, LED lighting and facility controls, which are not currently covered in the contract price.

Manufacturing 

We will source our products and accessories from third party manufacturing companies that manufacture products in part using tooling we own, in accordance with our specifications, and subject to our patent pending intellectual property rights.

&#160;

We currently own tooling to produce HDPE aeroponic trays in 48"X96"X12" and 48"X96"X24" sizes through a process known as rotational molding and thermoforming. We also own tooling to produce thermoformed molds in 24"X48" for ABS plastic. We currently out-source our rotational molding to Freeman Engineered Products and thermoforming to Robinson Industries. We are currently capable of manufacturing our VFRack framing systems in-house, though we may choose to sub contract to third parties depending on project location and number of fixtures purchased. We currently have no agreements with third parties to manufacture our products. We are capable of producing up to 800 frames per month currently in -house.

All of our products and fixtures are made using very common fabrication and manufacturing methods. We have access to numerous companies around the world that offer metal fabrication, powder coating and plastic thermoforming and rotational molding. We contract and source from companies based on geographic location and volume ability. We can transport our tooling from one manufacturer to another and in some cases we contract to have new tooling built depending on the volume of a clients order. Because we use common manufacturing methods and because our products are designed with these common manufacturing methods in mind, we are able to meet any scale or project size. Any volume limits or lead times based on available manufacturing is discussed with the client during the design phase and pricing phase. The capacity limits are those of our suppliers and manufacturers, not of ours. So if we have more orders than these suppliers and manufactures can supply parts and/or complete third party manufacturing in any month, we will advise our client of a delay in the delivery time. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent law, trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which are primarily our brand names, product designs and marks.

On December 6, 2011, a U.S. federal trademark registration was filed for Indoor Harvest (Serial Number 85488194) and the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") granted a first 6 month extension for use on January 5, 2013 and were granted a fifth extension for use on January 8, 2015. On August 18, 2015 we registered Indoor Harvest as a trademark for use.

On May 15, 2013 the Company filed a provisional application for patent on a "modular aeroponic system and related methods" (Serial Number 61/823,330) with the USPTO. The inventor was recorded as Chad Sykes, our CEO and sole Founder and Indoor Harvest Corp was named as the assignee. In order to obtain our patent, the Company will need to convert its provisional application for patent, into a non-provisional application for patent. On May 15, 2014, the Company converted its provisional patent into a non-provisional patent and recorded an expense of $1,730.

On September 22, 2015, we received our first office action from the USPTO. We have responded to comments on our patent application and await a response from the USTPO. We do not currently have a patent, the USPTO will conduct a further review of our patent application and provide us with comments. We must satisfy all comments before the USPTO will grant us a patent. There is no guarantee that a patent will be granted. While our patent application is under review, we may use the term "patent pending" on all published materials regarding our process applied for patent.

Governmental Regulation and Certification 

&#160;

We are not aware of any governmental regulations or approvals for any of our products or services.

&#160;

As the possession and use of cannabis is illegal under the Federal Controlled Substances Act, we could be deemed to be aiding and abetting illegal activities through the equipment we intend to sell in the U.S. if such equipment is used by customers who intend to purchase and use our aeroponic and vertical farm framing systems to grow cannabis. Under Federal law, and more specifically the Federal Controlled Substances Act, the possession, use, cultivation, and transfer of cannabis is illegal. Our equipment could be used by persons or entities engaged in the business of possession, use, cultivation, and/or transfer of cannabis. As a result, law enforcement authorities, in their attempt to regulate the illegal use of cannabis, could seek to bring an action or actions against us, including, but not limited, to a claim of aiding and abetting another's criminal activities. The Federal aiding and abetting statute provides that anyone who "commits an offense against the United States or aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or procures its commission, is punishable as a principal." 18 U.S.C. &#167;2(a). However, we do not believe that the Company's current and intended business as described in this report violates federal law and believe we would prevail if any such action were brought against us.

&#160;

Additional Information

&#160;

We are a public company and file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the SEC. We are not required to, and do not intend to, deliver an annual report to security holders. You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents by writing to the SEC and paying a fee for the copying cost. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the public reference room. Our filings are also available, at no charge, to the public at http://www.sec.gov .

&#160;

