 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS. 

THE COMPANY

(1) Form and year of organization

AS-IP Tech, Inc. (formerly ASI Entertainment, Inc.) was formed on April 29, 1998 as a Delaware corporation. The Company has an authorized capital of 500,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value of $.0001 per share (the "Common Stock") and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. All shares of Common Stock have equal voting rights, are non-assessable, and have one vote per sha0re. The executive offices of the Company are located at 2/1 Contour Close, Research, Victoria, 3095 Australia. The United States offices of the Company are located at 954 Lexington Ave, Suite 242, New York, NY 10021. The Company&#146;s telephone number is +1 424-888-2212.

BUSINESS

(1) Principal products or services and their markets;

The Company owns technology which is sold as two products called BizjetMobile and fflya. The products deliver inflight connectivity for the business aviation and commercial aviation industry respectively. 

BizjetMobile provides corporate jets with an alternative global inflight connectivity approach based on the latest App revolution, a narrowband satellite link and Bluetooth Smart technology. BizjetMobile is marketed under the brand names CHiiMP and KONNG. CHiiMP and KONNG are mobile Apps that deliver highly optimized inflight text and email for passengers and crew. The onboard network comprises a Bluetooth hotspot that integrates a set of algorithms and file management protocols that are custom built for aviation satellite networks. All communications are managed by a cloud-based gateway and report by user, flight, aircraft, file, and message type. As a result, passengers and crew receive unlimited inflight connectivity for a flat low monthly rate. 

fflya provides airlines with a customized global inflight connectivity approach based on the latest mobile App technology, a narrowband satellite link and Bluetooth technology. By incorporating embedded advertising and destination sponsors, fflya can deliver free messaging to airline passengers. The fflya platform reduces the installation, certification and equipment costs by up to 90% compared to inflight broadband. In addition, it uses a cloud-based messaging platform capable of delivering real-time demographic and profiling data. 

BizjetMobile and fflya products leverage off the existing Inmarsat &#38; Iridium satellites, but will be further enhanced by Next Generation Iridium satellites due for launch in November 2016. 

The technology has been selected for 58 aircraft with 46 installations completed to date operating across Australia, Asia, the America&#146;s, Europe and the Middle East. The Company recently signed Jetfly as the fleet launch customer in Europe and EmergencyAir as the fleet launch customer in America for the new Bluetooth Smart platform. 

Markets 

BizjetMobile&#146;s target market is the business aviation industry, specifically international corporate jets searching for an alternative low-cost inflight connectivity solution or an-add on service to reduce their operational costs. 

fflya&#146;s target market is the commercial aviation industry, specifically low-cost carriers that can&#146;t justify inflight Wi-Fi as their passengers expect connectivity to be free. fflya targets low-cost carriers because it provides free messaging, makes money and enhances the brand &#150; all without the airline having to charge its customers.

&#160;(2) Distribution methods of the products or services;

Until October 31, 2015, the Company&#146;s products and services were licensed to ASiQ Ltd, a related party, under an exclusive development and distribution agreement on the following main terms:

i)

As required by the Company, ASiQ will develop, manufacture and market the products to the aviation industry.

ii)

ASiQ to pay the Company a license fee of 10% of the net revenue generated by the products and received by ASiQ.

iii)

ASiQ will secure the services of Ron Chapman to assist in any product development and marketing.

vi)

Should ASiQ develop other applications for the SafeCell concept outside the aviation industry, ASiQ and the Company will enter into separate agreements setting out the basis on which ASiQ can use the SafeCell concept as set out in the International PCT application, such agreement will include license and royalty payments payable under the agreement.

Effective November 1, 2015, ASiQ&#146;s license of the technology was terminated by mutual agreement, and the Company assumed control of the development, marketing and maintenance for the BizjetMobile and fflya products and services. 

The Company has subsequently appointed BizjetMobile agents for the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific who will represent the Company on a commission basis. 

(3) Status of any publicly announced new product or service;

The Company has announced it will launch its fflya program, the Bluetooth Smart airline version, at the APEX (Airline Passenger Experience Association) Expo on October 23, 2016.

(4) Competitive business conditions and the small business issuer's competitive position in the industry and methods of competition;

Competition 

In the United States, GOGO Inc. (formally Aircell) dominates the aviation communications market. GOGO&#146;s system connects passenger devices via Wi-Fi, having implemented an exclusive terrestrial wireless network across the United States for transmission off the aircraft. At June 30, 2015, GOGO had 2,845 airliners and 3,795 business jets connected to its system. The Aircell division of GOGO also provides Iridium satellite communications to 5,458 corporate aircraft. These are legacy satellite systems and GOGO Biz Services cannot be delivered by Iridium. Approximately 50% of the BizjetMobile customers are connected via the Aircell Iridium system.

Internationally, there are four major Wi-Fi industry players: Panasonic, GOGO Inc., VIASAT and Inmarsat. 

Panasonic and GOGO Inc. leverage off leased Ku-band satellites whereas VIASAT and Inmarsat are owner-operators of Ka-band satellites. Despite the discussion about increasing satellite speeds, the reality remains that speed is relative to cost and therefore the more speed and bandwidth required the higher the cost. The primary market for all four vendors is predominantly Tier 1 airlines and national flag carriers. These airlines provide first and business class passengers with an adequate level of Internet where cost of delivery is not their primary concern. In the majority of cases, first and business class passengers receive this service free of charge.

Equipment, installation and certification costs on these platforms are substantial and where possible, the majority of airlines will exercise the option to have it factory installed on new aircraft. Currently there are only approximately 60 major airlines globally with inflight Wi-Fi. 

For the Company&#146;s airline concept to compete it will provide flexible terms on equipment cost and revenue sharing. Airlines are expected to be attracted to this structure, which allows them to offer the service at little or no cost to the passenger.

The Company believes agents will be able to compete with the other companies in both the business aircraft and airline fields due to its very low equipment costs, little or no certification issues unlike Wi-Fi, and the fact that Bluetooth has been tested and documented as safe for use in aircraft.

(5) Sources and availability of raw materials and the names of principal suppliers;

Not applicable.

(6) Dependence on one or a few major customers;

The Company will be dependent on its agents to market the product to generate the income from which the Company hardware sales and service fees. The timing and extent of that marketing will be dependent on the resources and efforts of its agents.

(7) Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts, including duration;

The Company originally acquired the application for an Australian patent on its "SafeCell" system and filed an International application under the Patent Co-oper0ation Treaty "PCT". In September 2008, the Company received notification that the International Preliminary Report on Patentability had been established. The Company subsequently filed national phase patent applications in Australia, the United States, China and European Union. In January 2010, the Company received notification of the approval of the Australian patent application. In January 2012, the Company received notification of the approval of the Chinese patent application. The Company has subsequently decided to proceed no further with the patents as the technology is predominately software based and protected by copyright. With the advent of Bluetooth Smart, the technology has advanced to a point where the patent is no longer relevant.

(8) Need for any government approval of principal products or services. If government approval is necessary and the small business issuer has not yet received that approval, discuss the status of the approval within the government approval process;

The business aircraft system is installed as a Portable Electronic Device and as such little or no certification is required.

Installation and use of aircraft avionics in airline category aircraft requires prior certification and approval by the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") and regulatory authorities of foreign governments on each aircraft type and for each airline.

The certification process begins with the installation of the system on an aircraft after which it is certified by an FAA accredited engineer. The certification is then applicable to similar aircraft types and modified for other aircraft type. In countries other than the United States, the equivalent aviation authority procedures will apply to the certification of the system, but the United States FAA is generally accepted by local certifying authorities throughout the world. Prior to certification and approval, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the system has been designed and manufactured and complies with the appropriate aviation standards, namely DO160 for hardware and DO178 for software. Following this step, the system must be installed on an aircraft and tested, including a ground and flight test.

As the App is installed on a mobile phone or tablet, which are regarded as carry on devices, and operated in &#147;flight&#148; or &#147;offline&#148; mode, no aircraft certification is required however, in the majority of cases the final approval for use in flight will be at the discretion of the airline.

(9) Effect of existing or probable governmental regulations on the business;

The company must maintain good standing, comply with applicable local business licensing requirements, prepare and file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and comply with other applicable securities laws, rules and regulations.

Existing or probable governmental regulations have not impacted our operations except for the increased costs of compliance with reporting obligations. These additional costs remain consistent as long as the company continues as a reporting corporation.

(10) Estimate of the amount spent during each of the last two fiscal years on research and development activities, and if applicable the extent to which the cost of such activities are borne directly by customers;

Until October 31, 2015, all research and development which created the BizjetMobile range of products was carried out by the licensee, ASiQ. Since November 2015, the Company estimates that it has expended $200,000 on research and development for the airline version 

(11) Costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws (federal, state and local); and

Not applicable

(12) Number of total employees and number of full time employees.

The company does not have any employees, instead contracts the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (same person), as well as contracting marketing and technical services as required.

