 Item 1. Business 

We are a biopharmaceutical company specializing in the development of novel therapeutics to treat diseases of the back of the eye, with a focus on developing therapeutics for age-related macular degeneration, or AMD. AMD is a disorder of the central portion of the retina, known as the macula, which is responsible for central vision and color perception. There are two forms of AMD, wet AMD and dry AMD. Our most advanced product candidate is Fovista&#174; (pegpleranib), an anti-platelet derived growth factor, or PDGF, aptamer that is in Phase 3 clinical development for use in combination with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, drugs that represent the current standard of care for the treatment of wet AMD. We have completed one Phase 1 and one Phase 2b clinical trial of Fovista administered in combination with the anti-VEGF drug Lucentis&#174; (ranibizumab), have completed patient enrollment for two Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis and expect to complete enrollment in a third Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating Fovista in combination with Eylea&#174; (aflibercept) or Avastin&#174; (bevacizumab) in 2016. We have completed enrollment in two additional Phase 2a clinical trials of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin), one of which is studying the potential of Fovista to reduce subretinal fibrosis in wet AMD patients and the other of which is investigating the optimized regimen of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, as well as the potential of Fovista to reduce the treatment burden for wet AMD patients. We are also developing our product candidate Zimura&#174; (avacincaptad pegol) as a monotherapy for the treatment of patients with geographic atrophy, or GA, a form of dry AMD, as well as in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD and for the treatment of polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, a specific type of wet AMD, in patients who do not respond adequately to anti-VEGF monotherapy or for whom anti-VEGF monotherapy fails. We are also investigating the potential of an ophthalmic formulation for tivozanib, a small molecule VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor for which we have an option for a license. 

Fovista 

We are developing our product candidate Fovista to be administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. Wet AMD is characterized by abnormal new blood vessel formation, referred to as neovascularization, which results in blood vessel leakage and retinal distortion. If untreated, neovascularization in wet AMD patients typically results in formation of a scar, 

or fibrosis, under the macular region of the retina. The use of anti-VEGF drugs has significantly improved visual outcomes for wet AMD patients compared to untreated patients newly diagnosed with wet AMD. However, we believe that persistence or growth of neovascularization and the development of fibrosis under the retina are involved in limiting the visual benefit from anti-VEGF monotherapy, and, therefore, a significant unmet medical need remains. 

Wet AMD is the leading cause of blindness in people over the age of 55 in the United States and the European Union. The current standard of care for wet AMD is monotherapy administration of drugs that target vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, one of several proteins involved in neovascularization. The anti-VEGF market for the treatment of wet AMD consists of two drugs that are approved for marketing and primarily prescribed for the treatment of wet AMD, Lucentis and Eylea, and a third drug, Avastin, a cancer drug used on an off-label basis. In 2015, annual worldwide sales of Lucentis and Eylea totaled approximately $7.7 billion for multiple retinal disease indications, including wet AMD, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (also known as RVO), diabetic macular edema (also known as DME) and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. This sales number does not include sales of Avastin, which is used off-label to treat wet AMD in the United States and in the European Union. The anti-VEGF market for the treatment of wet AMD in China includes conbercept, sales of which are also not reflected in the sales number above. 

We believe that Fovista's mechanism of action, when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug, may result in two relevant biological responses: neovascular regression and inhibition of fibrosis under the retina, also known as subretinal fibrosis. Fovista binds to and inhibits a protein known as platelet derived growth factor, or PDGF, causing the stripping of pericytes, which are cells that cover the outside of newly formed blood vessels. After the pericytes are stripped from the new blood vessels, endothelial cells lining the inside of the newly formed blood vessels are left unprotected and are highly vulnerable to the effects of anti-VEGF drugs. Fovista also inhibits migration of other retinal cells attracted by PDGF, such as retinal pigment epithelium, or RPE, cells and glial cells, which play a role in the formation of subretinal fibrosis. We further believe that the administration of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs in patients with wet AMD may cause regression of neovascularization and may inhibit subretinal fibrosis more effectively than anti-VEGF monotherapy. We believe that Fovista may provide meaningful added benefit in the treatment of wet AMD regardless of which anti-VEGF drug is administered in combination with Fovista. 

In 2012, we completed a large Phase 2b clinical trial in newly diagnosed wet AMD patients in which 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with one of the standard of care anti-VEGF drugs, Lucentis, demonstrated statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 24 weeks. Patients receiving the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis gained a mean of 10.6 letters from baseline on a standardized chart of vision testing compared to a mean gain of 6.5 letters from baseline for patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy, representing a 62% comparative benefit from baseline. Based on the pre-specified secondary endpoints in our Phase 2b study and on retrospective analyses of commonly evaluated parameters used in wet AMD trials, Fovista combination therapy resulted in improved visual outcome, with more patients experiencing vision gain and fewer patients experiencing vision loss, in a broad range of patient groups in this trial compared to Lucentis monotherapy. Fovista was generally well tolerated in this clinical trial. 

Our pivotal Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista consists of three separate Phase 3 clinical trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy. Two of these trials, referred to as the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials, are evaluating Fovista in combination with Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. The third trial, referred to as the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, is evaluating Fovista in combination with Eylea or Avastin compared to Eylea or Avastin monotherapy. 

Our development strategy for Fovista is to be agnostic with respect to the choice of the anti-VEGF drug administered in combination with Fovista. 

We completed patient enrollment in one of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials in May 2015 and in the other Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trial in November 2015. The Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials are investigating Fovista in combination with Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy and are identical with respect to the trial design in the first year. Therefore, the databases from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials will be locked and analyzed together, which will allow for the pooled analysis of certain relevant endpoints in accordance with the statistical analysis plan. We expect initial, top-line data from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials to be available during the fourth quarter of 2016. 

We are continuing to actively enroll patients in the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial and expect to complete enrollment in 2016, with initial, top-line data from this trial to be available in 2017 based on current enrollment estimates. This trial is investigating Fovista in combination with either Eylea or Avastin compared to Eylea or Avastin monotherapy. Our Phase 2b trial utilized Lucentis as the only anti-VEGF drug because Eylea was not yet approved and Avastin's non-inferiority status compared to Lucentis was not yet established at the time the Phase 2b clinical trial commenced. Therefore, in order to gain more experience with Fovista when administered in combination with Eylea or Avastin prior to starting a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial, the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial started later (May 2014) than the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials (August 2013). This time period of approximately nine months allowed us to perform initial preclinical and clinical assessments and ensure compatibility of Eylea or Avastin when administered in combination with Fovista. 

Our key objective and plan is to make Fovista commercially available to physicians to treat their patients with wet AMD as quickly as possible, subject to obtaining favorable data from the Phase 3 clinical program. We are continuing to explore various regulatory filing options. We plan to initially submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for Fovista in combination with Lucentis based upon data from the two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials and subsequently submit an amendment to the NDA with data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, subject to a favorable data outcome from these trials. Alternatively, we may choose to file a supplemental NDA for Fovista in combination with Eylea or Avastin following FDA review of the NDA for Fovista in combination with Lucentis. In addition, we continue to evaluate various filing strategies for marketing authorizations in Europe and other ex-U.S. territories with Novartis AG, or Novartis, our ex-U.S. commercialization partner for Fovista. 

In addition to our ongoing Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, we have initiated additional clinical trials to evaluate the potential additional benefits of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs in wet AMD patients. We refer to these trials collectively as the Fovista Expansion Studies. They include: 

&#149; OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study. During the third quarter of 2014, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin), to study subretinal fibrosis in wet AMD patients. We completed enrollment in this trial in May 2015 with a total of 101 patients enrolled. Patients in this trial are followed over a 24-month period. In late 2015, we presented interim data for two subgroups of patients in this trial. See "&#151;Potentially Expanding the Use of Fovista&#151;Fovista Expansion Studies in Wet AMD" below for a description of the interim data we have presented to date. &#149; OPH1006 Fovista Treatment Burden Reduction Study. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin) to investigate the optimized regimen of Fovista administration in combination with anti-VEGF drugs. In addition, this trial may allow us to evaluate the potential of Fovista to reduce the treatment burden for wet AMD patients. We 4 

completed enrollment in this trial in October 2015 with a total of 64 patients enrolled. Patients in this trial are followed over an 18-month period. 

&#149; OPH1007 Fovista in Combination with Avastin Discontinuous Regimen Study. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2b clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a discontinuous, bi-monthly regimen of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with Avastin during the maintenance phase of wet AMD treatment compared to a discontinuous, bi-monthly regimen of Avastin monotherapy. The maintenance phase for wet AMD treatment generally follows an induction phase, when treatment is administered more frequently over a shorter period of time. We believe that off-label use of Avastin for the treatment of wet AMD has not been extensively studied in randomized, controlled clinical trials, similar to those that have been conducted for approved anti-VEGF drugs. &#149; OPH1008 Fovista Imaging Study. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial to investigate the role of multi-modal imaging in assessing anatomic responses to various wet AMD treatment regimens of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin). We may in the future seek to pursue additional clinical trials to assess the potential therapeutic benefit of Fovista in wet AMD as well as other ophthalmic conditions. 

Zimura 

We are developing our product candidate Zimura for the treatment of patients with GA, a form of dry AMD, and in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. Zimura is an inhibitor of complement factor C5, which we refer to as C5, a protein that is associated with complement mediated inflammation and cell damage, which we believe may be involved in the development and/or progression of dry and wet AMD. 

Dry AMD is typically associated with yellow-white dots or deposits under the retina, known as drusen. Unlike in wet AMD, there is an absence of pathological neovascularization in dry AMD. Significant vision loss results if dry AMD evolves into GA affecting the macula. GA appears as abrupt and deep levels of macular tissue loss and can be a significant cause of loss of central vision, affecting vision in both eyes in most patients. GA results in progressive and chronic degeneration of the retina characterized by variable thinning and dysfunction of retinal tissue. 

In addition, dry AMD can also progress to wet AMD. Although dry AMD is the most common form of AMD, there are no therapies approved by the FDA or European Medicines Agency, or EMA, to treat this condition. According to a 2011 publication from AMD Alliance International, approximately 30 million people worldwide have some form of AMD, with dry AMD accounting for 85% to 90% of these cases. A study published in Ophthalmology in 2012 analyzing age and gender variations in AMD prevalence estimates that approximately 8 million people worldwide are affected by GA. 

Multiple published studies have implicated local inflammation in the pathogenesis of dry AMD. Specifically, these studies suggest that the complement pathway, which consists of a series of proteins involved in the defense against infection and modulates a variety of immune and inflammatory responses, has a central role in dry AMD. The complement system is generally tightly regulated and requires the proper balance of activation and inhibition of proteins to function properly. Poorly regulated or aberrant activation of proteins in the complement pathway without a balanced or proportional inhibition of other proteins may result in the stimulation of inflammation and production of proteins, which eventually lead to damage to normal tissue. We believe that excessive activation of C5, which is one of the complement proteins, and the resulting formation of downstream complement 

protein complexes, results in tissue damage that plays an important role in the development of both dry AMD and wet AMD. Our product candidate Zimura is designed to inhibit C5 activation. 

We have completed a small, multicenter, uncontrolled, open label Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of Zimura administered as a monotherapy to patients with GA. We did not observe any evidence of drug related adverse events in this clinical trial. We observed a relative trend in this clinical trial, favoring the higher of the two dose groups, with respect to the reduction in the mean growth of the GA lesion area, as measured by an independent reading center, at 24 weeks. When a reduced dosing schedule was implemented during the subsequent 24 weeks, weeks 24 through 48, this relative trend in reduced growth in GA lesion area was no longer evident. We believe this apparent reduction of growth in GA lesion area size when Zimura was dosed with greater frequency compared to less frequent dosing in the same group of patients, may suggest a possible drug effect. Data from third party clinical trials of drug candidates targeting the complement pathways have been conflicting. However, there was a suggestion in one trial of the potential to reduce growth of GA lesions in a pronounced fashion where specific biomarkers were present. 

We have also completed a multicenter, ascending dose and parallel group open label Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. None of the patients in this trial experienced any dose limiting toxicities at any of the dose levels tested and adverse events were primarily ocular adverse events in the study eye which were related to the injection procedure. We performed assessments of visual acuity primarily as safety assessments to detect any decrease in vision associated with the intravitreal drug combination or the injection procedure. In a subgroup of 43 patients who had not previously been treated with anti-VEGF drugs and who received six injections at doses of 0.3 mg, 1.0 mg or 2.0 mg of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis, we observed a mean increase in visual acuity from baseline at all time points based on the number of letters the patient can read on a standardized chart of vision testing. In this subgroup, 22 patients (51%) gained at least 15 letters, consisting of six patients (46%) in the 0.3 mg dose group, seven patients (47%) in the 1.0 mg dose group and nine patients (60%) in the 2.0 mg dose group. 

Currently, we have the following ongoing clinical trials for Zimura: 

&#149; Zimura Phase 2/3 GA Study. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2/3 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Zimura monotherapy in patients with GA. We plan to enroll approximately 300 patients in the initial stage of the trial. During this stage, patients will be randomized into three groups, and will receive monthly injections of 1.0 mg of Zimura per eye, monthly injections of 2.0 mg of Zimura per eye or monthly sham injections as the control arm. At month 18, we plan to conduct an interim analysis to assess the safety and efficacy of Zimura compared to sham. Upon review of this interim analysis, a determination will be made whether to continue the trial and whether to expand the trial by enrolling additional patients. Patients in the trial will receive monthly injections for 24 months. &#149; Zimura Phase 2a Wet AMD Study. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate Zimura's potential role when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin) for the treatment of wet AMD. &#149; Zimura PCV Study. In late 2014, we commenced a very small, open-label Phase 2 clinical trial investigating Zimura's potential role when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, or PCV, a specific type of wet AMD, in patients who do not respond adequately to treatment with anti-VEGF monotherapy or for whom anti-VEGF monotherapy fails. Our initial, preliminary analysis of the data from this trial has not revealed any safety concerns related to Zimura. 6 

Our Management Team 

We are led by a team of experienced pharmaceutical industry executives and recognized experts in retinal disease. Our management team includes our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, David R. Guyer, M.D., and our co-founder and President, Samir C. Patel, M.D. Dr. Guyer and Dr. Patel were co-founders and senior executives of Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which was acquired by OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2005. While at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Dr. Guyer and Dr. Patel were responsible for the clinical development and commercialization of Macugen (pegaptanib sodium), the first anti-VEGF drug approved for the treatment of wet AMD. While at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, they also were responsible for the preclinical development of Fovista, the rights to which we subsequently acquired from OSI (Eyetech), Inc. pursuant to a divestiture agreement prior to initiation of any clinical development. We believe that our senior management provides us with significant capabilities in the development and commercialization of novel therapies to treat diseases of the back of the eye. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing novel therapeutics to treat diseases of the back of the eye, with a particular focus on developing novel therapeutics for the treatment of AMD. The key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal are: 

&#149; Complete the Phase 3 clinical program evaluating Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD and, if successful, seek marketing approval for Fovista in this indication. We are devoting a significant portion of our resources and business efforts to the clinical development and manufacture of Fovista, which we are developing to be used in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for wet AMD. We expect initial, top-line data from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials to be available during the fourth quarter of 2016, with initial, top-line data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial to be available in 2017 based on current enrollment estimates. We plan to initially submit an NDA to the FDA for Fovista in combination with Lucentis based upon data from the two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials and subsequently submit an amendment to the NDA with data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, subject to a favorable data outcome from these trials. Alternatively, we may choose to file a supplemental NDA for Fovista in combination with Eylea or Avastin following FDA review of the NDA for Fovista in combination with Lucentis. In addition, we continue to evaluate various filing strategies for marketing authorizations in Europe and other ex-U.S. territories with Novartis, our ex-U.S. commercialization partner for Fovista. In accordance with their protocols, our Phase 3 clinical trials will continue after such submissions. &#149; Further evaluate the potential benefit of Fovista in wet AMD, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs. We have completed patient enrollment in our OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study and OPH1006 Fovista Treatment Burden Reduction Study, and have initiated our OPH1007 Fovista in Combination with Avastin Discontinuous Regimen Study and OPH1008 Fovista Imaging Study, all as part of our Fovista Expansion Studies. We may also evaluate other ophthalmic conditions for which we believe Fovista treatment may be beneficial. &#149; Advance the development of Zimura for the treatment of AMD. We are developing our product candidate Zimura for the treatment of GA, a form of dry AMD, and, in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. Zimura is an inhibitor of complement factor C5, a protein that is associated with complement mediated inflammation and cell damage, which we believe may be involved in the development and/or progression of dry AMD and wet AMD. In furtherance of our Zimura clinical development program, we initiated in late 2015 our Zimura Phase 2/3 GA Study and our Zimura Phase 2a Wet AMD Study and, in late 2014, we initiated our Zimura PCV Study. 7 

&#149; Maximize commercial potential of Fovista and Zimura. We have retained commercialization rights to Fovista in the United States and worldwide commercialization rights to Zimura. If either Fovista or Zimura receives marketing approval in the United States, we plan to commercialize such product candidate in the United States with our own specialty sales force. We believe that retinal specialists in the United States, who perform most of the medical procedures involving diseases of the back of the eye, are sufficiently concentrated that we will be able to effectively promote Fovista and Zimura to these specialists with a sales and marketing group of approximately 100 persons. We have entered into an ex-U.S. commercialization agreement with Novartis for commercialization of Fovista outside the United States. We expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with one or more third parties to commercialize Zimura in markets outside the United States. &#149; Opportunistically in-license or acquire products, product candidates and technologies. In addition to expanding our Fovista and Zimura development programs, we are committed to exploring opportunities to address the unmet needs in AMD, as well as potentially other indications in the back of the eye. Our strategy, in general, is to be scientifically driven, to evaluate multiple options with limited upfront payments and to obtain early proof-of-concept validation prior to a larger commitment of capital. We plan to explore opportunities to expand our product pipeline through in-licensing or acquiring the rights to complementary products, product candidates and technologies for the treatment of a range of ophthalmic diseases, principally diseases of the back of the eye. We believe that our focus on diseases of the back of the eye and our experienced management and clinical development teams will make us an attractive collaborator or acquirer for companies seeking to out-license or sell rights to products, product candidates or technologies in our area of focus. We generally expect that we will not engage in internal early stage research and drug discovery and will thus avoid the related costs and risks of these activities. However, we plan to continue to assess opportunities to in-license late-stage preclinical product candidates as well as clinical assets. As an example of this strategy, in November 2014, we entered into an exclusive research and option agreement with AVEO Pharmaceuticals to license tivozanib, a small molecule VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the treatment of non-oncologic conditions of the eye. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid AVEO an upfront fee of $0.5 million for exclusive rights to investigate tivozanib's potency and potential as an ocular formulation. If we elect to continue the development of an ocular formulation of tivozanib, we may exercise our option for an exclusive worldwide license (excluding Asia) for the compound for ocular indications upon payment of a license fee and other milestone payments. Potential for Fovista in Wet AMD 

In our completed Phase 2b clinical trial, the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis demonstrated statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 24 weeks, providing a 62% comparative benefit from baseline. Our Phase 3 clinical program builds on and incorporates significant aspects from the design of our Phase 2b clinical trial. We intend to seek a broad label with regard to patient and/or lesion characteristics for Fovista for the treatment of patients with wet AMD in combination with anti-VEGF drugs. We believe that Fovista may provide meaningful added benefit in the treatment of wet AMD regardless of which anti-VEGF drug is administered in combination with Fovista. We also believe that Fovista, when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, has the potential to inhibit neovascularization and the formation of subretinal fibrosis, thereby improving longer-term visual outcomes for wet AMD patients. 

Visual Acuity Benefit 

We completed a large, multicenter, randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2b clinical trial in 2012 in which the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and the anti-VEGF drug Lucentis achieved statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 24 weeks. In this trial, patients treated with the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis showed improvements in visual acuity compared to Lucentis monotherapy, but the combination of 0.3 mg and Lucentis did not achieve statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 24 weeks. 

As described in more detail below under "&#151;Clinical Development of Fovista&#151;Completed Phase 2b Clinical Trial of Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD," the following graph sets forth the mean change in visual acuity from baseline for each treatment group in our Phase 2b clinical trial over the course of the trial: 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline Over Time 

We observed a visual benefit in patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis early in and sustained over the course of treatment. The relative magnitude of visual benefit increased over the study period. We believe that these results suggest that Fovista may provide benefit to patients when used over time in combination with Lucentis. We also believe that these results are supported by Fovista's proposed mechanism of action, which we believe, when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug, may result in two relevant responses: neovascular regression and inhibition of subretinal fibrosis. 

In addition, we believe that the relative visual benefit of the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to the relative visual benefit of the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis at all time points exhibits a dose-response curve in which the response to treatment increases with higher drug concentrations of Fovista. 

In our Phase 2b clinical trial, we observed differences on the secondary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 12 weeks favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis 

compared to Lucentis monotherapy. In addition, we observed differences in other visual outcome secondary endpoints favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. Further, we performed multiple retrospective subgroup analyses of the data from our Phase 2b clinical trial. In these retrospective analyses, we observed differences in visual outcomes from baseline favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy regardless of the baseline size of neovascularization or the baseline vision of the patient. We believe that these results suggest that the benefits of treatment with 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with Lucentis as compared to Lucentis monotherapy may be applicable to a broad segment of patients with wet AMD. 

Phase 3 Clinical Trials Build Upon and Incorporate Phase 2b Clinical Trial Design 

Our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista consists of three separate Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy. We completed patient enrollment in one of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials in May 2015 and in the other Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trial in November 2015. We continue to actively enroll patients in the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial. The primary efficacy endpoint in each of our Phase 3 clinical trials is the mean change in visual acuity from baseline, which will be assessed at 12 months after first treatment. 

The two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials build upon and incorporate significant aspects from the design of our Phase 2b clinical trial. We believe that the following aspects of our two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials may reduce the risk that we will have unexpected outcomes in these two trials: 

&#149; While we have modified the methodology used to determine a patient's eligibility under certain of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for our Phase 3 clinical trials as compared to our Phase 2b clinical trial, we have made no meaningful changes to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in these Phase 3 clinical trials from those we used in our Phase 2b clinical trial. We expect that this will result in the enrollment of a patient population similar to the patient population enrolled in our Phase 2b clinical trial. &#149; We are not changing the pre-specified primary endpoint, mean change in visual acuity from baseline, that we used in our Phase 2b clinical trial. However, we will assess mean change in visual acuity from baseline in these Phase 3 clinical trials at 12 months, instead of at 24 weeks as in our Phase 2b clinical trial. In our Phase 2b clinical trial, the relative magnitude of visual benefit seen with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy increased over the study period. &#149; Our Phase 2b clinical trial was well powered to detect a statistically significant difference in mean change in visual acuity between patients treated with 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with Lucentis and patients treated with Lucentis monotherapy. We are further improving our ability to detect any statistically significant differences in pre-specified efficacy outcomes between the treatment and control arms of our Phase 3 clinical trials by substantially increasing both the number of patients who will receive 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with Lucentis and the number of patients who will receive Lucentis monotherapy as compared to our Phase 2b clinical trial. &#149; We are using a dose of Fovista that exhibited a favorable safety profile in our Phase 2b clinical trial. We are using the same standard of care anti-VEGF drug, Lucentis, in combination with Fovista and as the monotherapy control in these two Phase 3 clinical trials as we used in our Phase 2b clinical trial. 10 

We are also conducting a third clinical trial, the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, that is evaluating the safety and efficacy of Fovista administered in combination with Avastin or Eylea compared to Avastin or Eylea monotherapy. We believe that Fovista may provide meaningful added benefit in the treatment of wet AMD regardless of which anti-VEGF drug is administered in combination with Fovista. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or the CHMP, of the EMA has informed us that, given that Avastin is not approved for intravitreal use in the European Union, the final label for Fovista in the European Union, if Fovista receives marketing approval, may be required to specify only the anti-VEGF drugs approved for intravitreal use that were studied in combination with Fovista, rather than a label specifying Fovista for use in combination with any anti-VEGF drug. 

Potential to Enhance Efficacy of Current Standard of Care 

We intend to seek a broad label with regard to patient and/or lesion characteristics for Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. The anti-VEGF market for the treatment of wet AMD currently consists of Lucentis, Avastin and Eylea. The condition of many patients suffering with wet AMD initially improves through the use of anti-VEGF drugs. However, in a substantial portion of cases of wet AMD patients receiving anti-VEGF drugs, the condition of the patient deteriorates over time. For example, based on results of third-party clinical trials, after one year of treatment with an anti-VEGF drug, approximately 18% to 22% of newly diagnosed wet AMD patients lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, and approximately 62% to 75% of such patients did not achieve an ability to read an additional 15 or more letters on the standardized chart of vision testing post-treatment. 

In 2013, the peer reviewed journal Ophthalmology published a study reporting on a four-year longitudinal analysis of 555 wet AMD patients treated with an anti-VEGF drug. The study found that after four years, on average, patients lost vision compared to their visual acuity at the start of the study. Thirty-two percent of the patients in the study continued treatment for the entire four-year study period. After four years, mean visual acuity in this group of patients essentially reverted to pre-study levels. In addition, 28% of patients discontinued treatment because of poor visual outcomes. The primary reasons for discontinuation of treatment in this group were sustained low visual acuity and lack of apparent treatment response. 

In addition, Ophthalmology also published in 2013 the results of an uncontrolled study of patients who had received two years of monthly treatment with Lucentis in clinical trials and then received additional treatment with Lucentis at a physician's discretion for two more years. When assessed at their last evaluation in this study, approximately 46% of such patients had lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing. 

Moreover, in 2013, Ophthalmology published the results of a separate follow-up study of a cohort of these same patients. When assessed approximately three years after completing their participation in the prior study, approximately one-third had poor outcomes, defined as the loss of the ability to read 15 or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, according to the study conclusions. In addition, approximately 57% of such patients had lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, compared to baseline prior to receiving therapy in the original clinical trials, and approximately 37% had visual acuity at the level of legal blindness, defined as visual acuity of 20/200 or worse. The study authors noted that wet AMD patients remain at risk for substantial visual decline. 

In a study published in 2013 in American Journal of Ophthalmology , 40% of wet AMD patients exhibited subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring after two years of treatment with Lucentis. According to a retrospective analysis of the Comparisons of AMD Treatment Trials, or CATT, published in 2013 in 

Ophthalmology , 32% of newly diagnosed wet AMD patients developed retinal scarring after one year of treatment with either Lucentis or Avastin, while 45% of newly diagnosed wet AMD patients developed retinal scarring after two years of treatment with either Lucentis or Avastin. 

The PDGF pathway is one of the major mediators of fibrosis. In 2006, the peer reviewed Journal of Cell Physiology published the results of a study in which Fovista monotherapy exhibited anti-fibrotic effects in an animal model of retinal scarring. We therefore believe that Fovista's ability to inhibit the PDGF pathway may enhance regression of neovascularization and also may inhibit the development of subretinal fibrosis in the eye when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug. We believe continued Fovista anti-PDGF therapy administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs may result in improved visual outcomes for patients with wet AMD as compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy. 

We believe that the administration of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs in patients with wet AMD may disrupt abnormal new blood vessels and cause neovascular regression more effectively than anti-VEGF monotherapy, leading to improved visual outcomes. In addition, based on our initial retrospective assessment of retinal images of patients who experienced vision loss following treatment with either 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with 0.5 mg of Lucentis or Lucentis monotherapy in our completed Phase 2b clinical trial and a retrospective analysis conducted by an independent reading center, as well as results from preclinical tests and our review of recent scientific literature, we also believe that wet AMD patients who receive anti-VEGF monotherapy may remain at increased risk for the development of subretinal fibrosis. We believe that the development of subretinal fibrosis in these patients may, in part, be responsible for the deterioration of vision that many wet AMD patients experience over time, notwithstanding treatment with an anti-VEGF drug. In May 2015, we completed enrollment in our OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study and we presented interim data from this trial in late 2015. See "&#151;Potentially Expanding the Use of Fovista&#151;Fovista Expansion Studies in Wet AMD" below for a description of the interim data we have presented to date. 

Age-Related Macular Degeneration 

Eye disease can be caused by many factors and can affect both the front and back of the eye. In its most extreme cases, eye disease can result in blindness. In the developed world, the major diseases that result in blindness are those affecting the retina, including AMD and diabetic retinopathy, and glaucoma. These diseases deprive patients of their sight and, as a result, their ability to live independently and perform daily activities. Any improvement in vision, or even a slowing of the rate of vision loss, has a tremendous impact on the quality of life of patients with impaired vision. 

AMD is a leading cause of vision loss in people over the age of 50 in the western world. There are two forms of AMD, dry AMD and wet AMD. According to AMD Alliance International, approximately 10 million people in the United States and 30 million people worldwide suffer from some form of AMD. AMD Alliance International estimates that dry AMD accounts for 85% to 90% of all AMD cases, while a study published in Ophthalmology in 2012 analyzing age and gender variations in AMD prevalence estimates that approximately 8 million people worldwide are affected by GA, a form of dry AMD. A study on the burden of AMD published in 2006 in the peer reviewed journal Current Opinion in Ophthalmology , estimated that 1,250,000 people in the United States, suffer from wet AMD. In addition, AMD Alliance International reports that approximately 200,000 new cases of wet AMD arise each year in the United States. Based on U.S. Census Bureau data, we estimate that over the next two decades in the United States the number of people aged 55 or older is expected to increase by approximately 36% and the number of people aged 65 and older is expected to increase by approximately 69%. We expect that this increase in the number of elderly people will result in a significant increase in the number of cases of both dry AMD, including cases of GA, and wet AMD in the United States. 

AMD is a major public health problem that has a devastating effect on patients and a significant adverse impact on the economy. AMD distorts the acute central vision necessary for daily activities such as reading, face recognition, watching television and driving and can lead to loss of central vision and blindness. According to a 2010 study sponsored by AMD Alliance International, the annual direct healthcare system costs of visual impairment worldwide due to AMD were estimated at approximately $255 billion. According to the same study, wet AMD patients suffer a reduced quality of life and experience difficulty performing daily activities, social isolation, higher than normal rates of clinical depression, twice the risk of premature death as those who are not visually impaired, increased risk of falls and related hip fractures and premature admission to nursing homes. Wet AMD represents approximately 10% of all cases of AMD, but is responsible for 90% of the severe vision loss associated with the disease. 

According to a study on the burden of AMD published in 2006 in Current Opinion in Ophthalmology , an average patient with AMD experiences a decrease in his or her quality of life equivalent to that of patients suffering from other diseases often perceived as more severe. For example, moderate age-related macular degeneration, defined as vision of 20/50 to 20/100 in the better-seeing eye, causes a 40% decrease in the average patient's quality of life, similar to that associated with severe cardiac angina or renal dialysis. Normal visual acuity is commonly referred to as 20/20 vision, and a person with 20/50 vision can read letters on an eye chart from 20 feet away as well as a person with normal vision can read the chart from 50 feet away. 

Wet AMD 

Wet AMD is preceded by dry AMD. In a subset of patients, dry AMD converts to wet AMD when new and abnormal blood vessels invade the retina. These abnormal new blood vessels originate beneath the retina, in a layer called the choroid, and invade into the overlying retinal layers. This abnormal new blood vessel growth is generally referred to as pathological angiogenesis. In the context of wet AMD, pathological angiogenesis is associated with both the development of neovascular cells and the accumulation of other cell types and altered tissue. The pathological neovascular tissue in wet AMD is called the choroidal neovascular complex or choroidal neovascularization. Choroidal neovascularization, or CNV, and adjacent and contiguous areas of blood and altered tissue are referred to as a lesion. 

Abnormal new blood vessels tend to be fragile and often bleed and leak fluid into the macula, the central most portion of the retina responsible for central vision and color perception. Untreated, new blood vessel growth and associated leakage typically lead to retinal distortion and eventual retinal scarring, with irreversible destruction of the macula, resulting in loss of vision. This visual loss occurs rapidly with a progressive course. Approximately 90% of wet AMD cases involve subfoveal choroidal neovascularization, which is blood vessel growth directly under the central portion of the macula, known as the fovea. Our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista is enrolling patients with subfoveal wet AMD. 

Wet AMD traditionally has been divided into subtypes based on the pattern of the abnormal new blood vessels using the diagnostic imaging technique fluorescein angiography or cross sectional location of the abnormal new blood vessels using the diagnostic imaging technique spectral domain optical coherence tomography, or SD-OCT. These subtypes form a continuous spectrum of pathological neovascularization based on whether the abnormal new blood vessels are well defined and delineated as determined by fluorescein angiography or whether they have invaded the RPE layer of the retina. The RPE layer of the retina lies between the choroid and the neurosensory region of the retina. 

Retinal specialists historically have used fluorescein angiography to determine the extent and location of abnormal new blood vessels relative to the RPE. This technique involves injection of a fluorescent dye into the systemic circulation and capturing images showing the circulating dye during transit through the retinal circulation using a specialized camera. Fluorescein angiography is very 

sensitive in detecting the presence or absence of neovascularization. However, fluorescein angiography's accuracy in subtype detection can be inconsistent. In addition, the use of fluorescein angiography is limited in detecting the location and position of the abnormal blood vessels relative to the RPE due to the variability and subjectivity inherent in the reading of the fluorescein angiogram. Currently, there is a shift toward using the latest, high resolution SD-OCT models to image the abnormal new blood vessels and the associated leakage in wet AMD patients. Increasingly, retinal specialists, in determining the subtype classification, use SD-OCT to assess whether the presence of abnormal new vessels is located above or below the RPE. Because of technological enhancements in SD-OCT machines, the resolution of SD-OCT retinal tissue imaging has increased markedly over the last few years. SD-OCT is the current standard for retinal imaging in the United States and the European Union. SD-OCT utilizes specialized light scattering through the biological tissues and obtains high-resolution retinal tissue images using a specialized camera. SD-OCT images show a cross-sectional view of the retina that permits enhanced resolution of the space under the retina and at the RPE level where the neovascularization associated with wet AMD is present. SD-OCT images allow for a more precise analysis of anatomical differences between various angiographic subtypes of CNV lesions in neovascular AMD, especially with respect to the location of the abnormal new vessels relative to the RPE. 

The abnormal new blood vessels are made up of "classic" and "occult" components, when assessed by fluorescein angiography. The term "classic" applies to the portion or component of the patient's abnormal new bloods vessels or neovascularization that is well defined by fluorescein angiography, with their location usually represented above the RPE. The term "occult" applies to the portion or component of the patient's abnormal new blood vessels that is poorly defined by fluorescein angiography, with their location usually represented below the RPE. The quantification of the amount of the patient's "classic" or "occult" components with respect to the neovascular lesion determines whether the lesion is "pure classic," "predominantly classic," "minimally classic" or "pure occult." The term "pure classic" applies when 100% of the lesion is composed of the classic component. The term "predominantly classic" applies when 50% or greater of the lesion is made up of the classic component. The term "minimally classic" applies when less than 50% of the lesion is made up of the classic component. The term "pure occult" or "occult lesions" applies when there is no classic component to the lesion and therefore the entire, or 100%, of the lesion is made up of the occult component. Based on enrollment of untreated wet AMD patients in third-party clinical trials, the pure occult subtype accounts for approximately 40% of the cases of subfoveal wet AMD in the wet AMD patient population. Some component of occult choroidal neovascularization is present in predominantly classic and minimally classic choroidal neovascularization. For example, in minimally classic choroidal neovascularization, as observed through fluorescein angiography, up to 99% of the blood vessels may be composed of the occult component, thus only 1% different from 100% or pure occult. 

The following diagrams show cross-sections of the back of a normal eye and the progression to and mechanisms of visual loss associated with the neovascularization component of wet AMD: 

Visual Loss in Wet AMD 

Abnormal new blood vessels are predominantly made up of two cell types, endothelial cells and pericytes. The endothelial cells line the inside of abnormal new blood vessels. Pericytes then intimately cover the outside of these blood vessels. Early in the process of abnormal new blood vessel formation, VEGF binds to a receptor on endothelial cells and causes endothelial cells to proliferate. The proliferating endothelial cells form new blood vessels. VEGF provides survival signals to endothelial cells. VEGF also is one of the most potent inducers of blood vessel permeability, which causes the new blood vessels to leak. 

PDGF binds to a receptor on pericytes. The binding of PDGF provides an important cell survival signal to pericytes. PDGF also recruits pericytes to the abnormal new blood vessel, where they mature and cover the endothelial cells. Pericytes locally supply the endothelial cells with growth and survival factors, including VEGF, and play a major role in endothelial cell survival. Pericytes also physically support and stabilize the abnormal new blood vessels. 

The following diagrams show cross-sections of the back of an eye and the chemical and cellular processes associated with the progression to neovascularization in wet AMD: 

The neovascular tissue from patients with wet AMD has been studied extensively through microscopic examination. When examined microscopically, the choroidal neovascular complex appears similar in composition to the tissue encountered in the normal wound healing process. It contains abnormal new blood vessels consisting of endothelial cells and pericytes, and also cells from the surrounding retinal tissue, including RPE cells and glial cells. Glial cells otherwise have a number of important functions, including acting as immune defense cells within the retina. 

PDGF attracts pericytes, RPE cells and glial cells, which are all involved in the formation of the choroidal neovascular complex. Third-party preclinical studies suggest that these cells also contribute to the formation of subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring. PDGF also has been observed as a mediator of fibrosis and wound healing in other organs throughout the body. 

The following diagrams show cross-sections of the back of an eye and the chemical and cellular processes associated with the progression from neovascularization to subretinal fibrosis in more advanced cases of wet AMD: 

Currently Available Therapies for Wet AMD 

The current standard of care for wet AMD is administration by intravitreal injection of anti-VEGF drugs as monotherapy. The FDA has approved the anti-VEGF drugs Lucentis, Eylea and Macugen for the treatment of wet AMD. The FDA also has approved photodynamic therapy with Visudyne (PDT) as a treatment of patients with wet AMD. In addition, although approved by the FDA as a cancer therapy, the anti-VEGF drug Avastin is used off-label to treat wet AMD. Lucentis is an antibody fragment derived from the same full length antibody from which Avastin was derived. 

Lucentis and Eylea are used primarily to treat wet AMD, although they also are approved for the treatment of other diseases of eye. In 2015, annual worldwide sales of Lucentis and Eylea totaled approximately $7.7 billion for multiple retinal disease indications, including wet AMD, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (also known as RVO), diabetic macular edema (also known as DME) and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Lucentis is marketed in the United States by F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd. and outside the United States by Novartis AG. Eylea is marketed in the United States by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and outside the United States by Bayer AG, except in Asia where it is marketed by Santen Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. The sales number presented above does not include sales of Avastin, which is used off-label to treat wet AMD in the United States and in the European Union. Avastin is approved as a cancer therapy and is marketed solely for such use. However, according to physician prescribing data provided by IMS Health, in 2013, Avastin was used off-label to treat approximately 50% of Medicare beneficiaries, and approximately 66% of new-to-therapy Medicare beneficiaries, who received anti-VEGF drugs for wet AMD. In addition, according to information published in November 2012 by BioTrends Research Group, retinal specialists in the largest markets in the European Union use off label Avastin to treat approximately 27% of patients with wet AMD. Avastin is available through compounding pharmacies and distributors for off-label use to treat wet AMD at a significantly lower price per dose than either Lucentis or Eylea. 

The availability of anti-VEGF drugs has significantly improved visual outcomes for patients with wet AMD who have been treated with anti-VEGF drugs as compared to untreated patients. A retrospective study published in 2012 in the peer reviewed journal JAMA Ophthalmology confirmed that 

the prevalence of both legal blindness and moderate visual impairment in patients two years after being diagnosed with wet AMD have decreased substantially following the introduction of anti-VEGF drugs. Nonetheless, the condition of many patients with wet AMD treated with anti-VEGF drugs does not improve significantly and deteriorates in a substantial portion of cases. Moreover, on average, improvement in vision through the use of an anti-VEGF drug in the near term is followed by the loss of the initial visual gain over the longer term. 

Anti-VEGF drugs prevent VEGF from binding to its natural receptor on endothelial cells in the abnormal new blood vessels, thereby inhibiting further abnormal new blood vessel growth and leakage associated with wet AMD. There is widespread agreement in the scientific community that the majority of the therapeutic benefit of anti-VEGF drugs is due to reducing or eliminating leakage. However, anti-VEGF drugs may be limited in their ability to induce disruption and regression of neovascularization. We believe that the presence of pericytes and their local production of VEGF and other factors protect endothelial cells from the effects of anti-VEGF drugs. Furthermore, a significant percentage of patients treated with an anti-VEGF drug eventually exhibit subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring. The eventual development of subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring in wet AMD patients may limit the impact of anti-VEGF drugs in the longer term. Third-party clinical trial results suggest that altering the dose or regimen of anti-VEGF drugs administered for the treatment of wet AMD does not enhance visual outcome. Moreover, third-party clinical trials also suggest that visual outcomes for wet AMD patients receiving treatment with an anti-VEGF drug worsen over time and are often associated with the growth of neovascular lesions and the development of subretinal fibrosis over time. 

Based on the results of third-party clinical trials, after one year of treatment with an anti-VEGF drug: 

&#149; approximately 18% to 22% of newly diagnosed wet AMD patients lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, in many cases further diminishing the patients' quality of life; &#149; approximately 62% to 75% of newly diagnosed wet AMD patients did not achieve an ability to read an additional 15 or more letters on the standardized chart of vision testing and have not experienced a marked improvement in their ability to enjoy the daily activities made difficult by wet AMD; and &#149; a majority of patients have not achieved final visual acuity of 20/40 or better, which is necessary to obtain a driver's license in many states. In 2013, Ophthalmology published a study reporting on a four-year longitudinal analysis of 555 wet AMD patients treated with Lucentis. All of the patients included in the study were treated at a single center with the same drug and retreatment criteria. The study found that after four years, on average, patients lost vision compared to their visual acuity at the start of the study. Thirty-two percent of patients continued treatment for the entire four-year study period. After four years, mean visual acuity in this group of patients essentially reverted to pre-study levels. In addition, 28% of patients discontinued treatment. The primary reasons for discontinuation of treatment were sustained low visual acuity and lack of apparent treatment response. 

In addition, in 2013, Ophthalmology published the results of an uncontrolled study of patients who had received two years of treatment with an anti-VEGF drug in clinical trials and then received additional anti-VEGF monotherapy at physician's discretion for two more years. When assessed at their last evaluation in this study, approximately 46% of such patients had lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing. Moreover, in 2013, Ophthalmology published the results of a separate follow-up study of a cohort of these same patients. When assessed approximately three years after completing their participation in the prior study, approximately one-third had poor outcomes, defined as the loss of the ability to read 15 or more 

letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, according to the study conclusions. In addition, approximately 57% of such patients had lost additional vision, defined as the loss of the ability to read one or more letters on a standardized chart of vision testing, compared to baseline prior to receiving therapy in the original clinical trials, and approximately 37% had visual acuity at the level of legal blindness, defined as visual acuity of 20/200 or worse. The study authors noted that wet AMD patients remain at risk for substantial visual decline. 

We believe that PDGF is one of the major mediators of the formation and stabilization of the choroidal neovascular complex and the associated development of subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring. These two processes were associated with poor visual outcome in wet AMD patients in the CATT study, a National Eye Institute sponsored multicenter clinical trial. We believe the formation of subretinal fibrosis and retinal scarring leads to retinal dysfunction in the affected region which, on average, leads to poor visual outcomes in a significant portion of wet AMD patients. Two recent studies have focused on the development of subretinal fibrosis in wet AMD patients receiving treatment with an anti-VEGF drug and have implicated subretinal fibrosis as a major factor in the long-term prognosis for visual outcomes for wet AMD patients: 

&#149; An article appearing in Ophthalmology in 2013 focused on the development of retinal scarring in wet AMD patients receiving treatment with Lucentis or Avastin monotherapy. Findings were based on a retrospective analysis of the CATT study. Approximately 1,200 newly diagnosed wet AMD patients were enrolled and treated with either Lucentis or Avastin over a period of two years. Patients with retinal scarring upon study entry or for whom one-year and two-year ocular photographs were not available were excluded from the analysis. Of the remaining 1,059 patients, 339, or 32%, developed retinal scarring after one year of treatment with either Lucentis or Avastin, while 480, or 45%, developed retinal scarring after two years of treatment with either Lucentis or Avastin. Patients with larger lesion sizes or visual acuity of less than 20/40 upon study entry were more likely to develop retinal scarring. &#149; In a separate paper from 2013 published in the American Journal of Ophthalmology , researchers in Denmark corroborated the published retrospective analysis of the CATT study described above. In the study of 197 newly diagnosed wet AMD patients treated in a single facility, 40% of eyes developed subretinal fibrosis following two years of treatment with Lucentis. Analysis of the results from this study revealed that patients that exhibited subretinal fibrosis began to develop subretinal fibrosis from and after the 3-month time point in the study. Moreover, the development of more severe subretinal fibrosis was associated with more severe vision loss. Fovista 

We are developing our product candidate Fovista to be administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. Fovista is designed to target PDGF. We believe that Fovista's mechanism of action, when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug, may result in two relevant biological responses: neovascular regression and inhibition of subretinal fibrosis. We further believe that the administration of Fovista in combination with anti-VEGF drugs in patients with wet AMD may cause regression of neovascularization and inhibit subretinal fibrosis more effectively than anti-VEGF monotherapy. We believe that Fovista may provide meaningful added benefit in the treatment of wet AMD regardless of which anti-VEGF drug is administered in combination with Fovista. Fovista binds to and inhibits PDGF, causing the stripping of pericytes, which are cells that cover the outside of newly formed blood vessels. After the pericytes are stripped from the new blood vessels, endothelial cells lining the inside of the newly formed blood vessels are left unprotected and are highly vulnerable to the effects of anti-VEGF drugs. Fovista also inhibits migration of other retinal cells attracted by PDGF, such as RPE cells and glial cells, which play a role in the formation of subretinal fibrosis. Our belief that Fovista may inhibit subretinal fibrosis is based on our initial retrospective assessment of retinal images of patients who experienced vision loss following treatment 

with either 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with 0.5 mg of Lucentis or Lucentis monotherapy in our completed Phase 2b clinical trial and a retrospective analysis conducted by an independent reading center, as well as results from pre-clinical tests and the scientific literature. In October 2014, an independent subgroup analysis assessing the development and progression of subretinal fibrosis in our Phase 2b clinical trial was presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. This retrospective analysis showed that the mean change in severity of subretinal fibrosis from baseline to conclusion of the study at 24 weeks was 0.97 for the Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy group as compared to 2.0 for the Lucentis monotherapy group (P = 0.003), based on a five-step grading system developed by Dr. Usha Chakravarthy, an internationally recognized key opinion leader. At 24 weeks, approximately twice the number of patients on standard of care anti-VEGF monotherapy (54%) were noted to have progression of subretinal fibrosis compared to the Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy group (27%). In eyes without any subretinal fibrosis at baseline, subretinal fibrosis developed in 10% of patients who received Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy, compared to 51% of patients who received monotherapy Lucentis. 

VEGF and PDGF are growth factors that share some structural similarities. The VEGF family consists of multiple members, called VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D and PlGF. The PDGF family also consists of multiple members, called PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB, PDGF-CC and PDGF-DD. 

Lucentis, Avastin and Eylea all target VEGF-A, which we generally refer to as VEGF. Fovista targets PDGF-BB, which we generally refer to simply as PDGF. The biological effects of VEGF-A and PDGF-BB are mediated by binding to receptors on the cell surface. Once VEGF-A and PDGF-BB bind to their respective receptors, a variety of signals are generated inside the cell, which alters the cell's behavior. The specific receptors for VEGF-A are called VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2. The specific receptors for PDGF-BB are called PDGFR- a and PDGFR-&#223;. 

VEGF-A is critical for endothelial cell survival and proliferation. The anti-VEGF drugs Lucentis, Avastin and Eylea exert their biologic effect by binding to VEGF-A, which blocks its interaction with the endothelial cell surface receptor VEGFR-2. This blocking results in inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation, inhibition of endothelial cell survival and inhibition of vascular permeability. PDGF-BB has been shown in multiple independent studies to be critical for pericyte survival and proliferation. Fovista exerts its biologic effect by binding to PDGF-BB, which blocks its interaction with the pericyte cell surface receptor PDGFR-&#223;. This blocking results in stripping or death of the pericytes by interrupting the cell survival signals. 

We have measured Fovista's inhibition of both PDGF-BB and PDGF-AB binding to both their receptors, PDGFR- a and PDGFR-&#223;, using widely accepted scientific methods. In in vitro assays, Fovista strongly inhibits both PDGF-BB and PDGF-AB from binding to their receptors with potency equal to an antibody that directly blocks the PDGFR- a and PDGFR-&#223; receptors. In preclinical models, we observed the marked stripping of pericytes from abnormally proliferating blood vessels in animals treated with Fovista. The combination of Fovista and anti-VEGF treatment in animal models of neovascularization disrupted and regressed abnormal new blood vessels to a greater degree than treatment with anti-VEGF monotherapy. 

At least two reported studies support our hypothesis regarding the benefit Fovista may provide in the inhibition of subretinal fibrosis. A 2005 article published in Archives of Ophthalmology, entitled "Histopathologic and Ultrastructural Features of Surgically Excised Subfoveal Choroidal Neovascular Lesions," described the presence of RPE cells and glial cells in surgically excised retinal neovascular membranes from AMD patients. The composition and appearance of these subretinal neovascular membranes was similar to the early formation of a scar. Furthermore, in 2006, the peer reviewed Journal of Cell Physiology published an article entitled "Intraocular Injection of an Aptamer that binds PDGF-B: A Potential Treatment for Proliferative Retinopathies" showing the results of a study in 

which Fovista monotherapy exhibited anti-fibrotic effects in an animal model of retinal scarring. Moreover, more recent scientific publications have reported on the rate of subretinal fibrosis in wet AMD patients receiving treatment with an anti-VEGF drug. Based on these preclinical and clinical results, as well as our understanding of the mechanisms of action of anti-VEGF drugs and Fovista, we believe that Fovista has the potential to provide meaningful added benefit in the treatment of wet AMD compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy. When administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs, we believe Fovista may result in both the inhibition and regression of neovascularization, as well as inhibition of subretinal fibrosis. We believe Fovista's mechanism of action is not dependent on the specific anti-VEGF drug regimen with which Fovista is administered. 

The following diagram shows what we believe are the anti-neovascularization elements of Fovista's mechanism of action: 

Regression of Neovascularization 

The anti-PDGF ingredient in Fovista is a chemically synthesized aptamer. An aptamer is a single strand of nucleic acid that adopts a three-dimensional structure and binds with high specificity and affinity to a particular extracellular target, such as PDGF, in a manner similar to a monoclonal antibody. Aptamers have the following key attributes: 

&#149; aptamers are synthetically derived, making production predictable and reproducible; and &#149; aptamers are chemically stable and do not generate an immune response that could limit efficacy. Fovista is a pegylated aptamer, which means that polyethylene glycol is linked to the strand of nucleic acid. This pegylation increases the half-life of Fovista, which in turn increases the time that Fovista actively targets PDGF. 

In our Phase 3 clinical trials, Fovista is administered by intravitreal injection after a separate intravitreal injection of an anti-VEGF drug. Before a physician administers the intravitreal injections of the anti-VEGF drug and Fovista, the patient receives topical numbing drops or injection of a numbing agent. In addition, physicians typically rinse the ocular surface with an antiseptic solution. By injecting the medication into the vitreous, the physician delivers Fovista in close vicinity to the active disease site with minimal potential for exposure to non-ocular tissues. Many other therapies used to treat serious retinal disorders, including Lucentis, Avastin and Eylea, also are administered by intravitreal injection. 

Clinical Development of Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD 

We have completed one Phase 1 clinical trial and one Phase 2b clinical trial of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. Our pivotal Phase 3 clinical program consists of three separate Phase 3 clinical trials, two of which are evaluating Fovista in combination with Lucentis and the other of which is evaluating Fovista in combination with Avastin or Eylea. All three of these Phase 3 clinical trials incorporate significant aspects from the design of our completed Phase 2b clinical trial. We plan to enroll a total of approximately 1,866 patients in more than 250 centers internationally across the three trials. We completed patient enrollment in one of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials in May 2015 and in the other Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trial in November 2015. We are continuing to actively enroll patients in the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial and expect to complete enrollment in 2016 based on current enrollment estimates. We expect initial, top-line data from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials to be available during the fourth quarter of 2016, with initial, top-line data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial to be available in 2017 based on current enrollment estimates. If the results of this Phase 3 clinical program are favorable, we plan to submit applications for marketing approval for Fovista in the United States and, together with our ex-U.S. commercialization partner, Novartis, in the European Union. 

Completed Phase 1 Clinical Trial of Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD 

In 2009, we completed a multicenter, uncontrolled, open label, ascending dose Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of subfoveal wet AMD. We conducted our Phase 1 clinical trial in 23 patients at 11 centers in the United States. Fovista was generally well tolerated in this trial. 

Patients enrolled in our Phase 1 clinical trial were 50 years of age and older and newly diagnosed with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to AMD with some classic component as documented by fluorescein angiography. Although treating physicians typically do not use subtype categorization as a diagnostic tool for choosing among pharmacological agents for treating wet AMD, we used the subtype classification so as to include in our trial only wet AMD patients with at least some well-defined abnormal new blood vessels. Since we could image and measure the well-defined blood vessels, we believed that we would be able to assess the response of those blood vessels to treatment with Fovista in combination with Lucentis. If we noted regression of abnormal new blood vessels or a disruption or change in the density of abnormal new blood vessels, we believed it would support the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

We enrolled patients with a range of baseline visual acuities. Visual acuity is measured as the number of letters, arranged in lines, that the patient can read on the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study, or ETDRS, eye chart. Each line on the ETDRS eye chart has five letters. This is a well-established standardized chart of vision testing used in these types of trials. Normal visual acuity is commonly referred to as 20/20 vision. To qualify for enrollment in our Phase 1 clinical trial, the visual acuity in the patient's study eye had to be between 20/63 and 20/200. We enrolled patients with a wide range of lesion sizes and with a variety of other lesion characteristics. 

We excluded patients from our Phase 1 clinical trial if they met any of the following key exclusion criteria: 

&#149; prior treatment for AMD in the study eye, other than oral supplements or vitamins and minerals; &#149; any intravitreal treatment in the study eye prior to the baseline visit, regardless of indication; &#149; intraocular surgery or thermal laser within three months of trial entry or any prior thermal laser in the macular region, regardless of indication; 22 

&#149; subfoveal scar or subfoveal atrophy; or &#149; diabetes mellitus. Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis was generally well tolerated in our Phase 1 clinical trial. None of the patients experienced any dose limiting toxicities at any of the dose levels tested. We did not observe any evidence of drug related adverse events. Adverse events were primarily ocular adverse events in the study eye which were related to the injection procedure. There were no adverse events related to Fovista or Lucentis, and no patients discontinued from the trial due to an adverse event. We did not observe any meaningful clinical immunologic reactions to Fovista. 

Our Phase 1 clinical trial had a small sample size and a short follow up period. It was not designed to compare Fovista combination therapy to another therapy. However, we noted improvements in visual acuity and anatomical changes in the newly formed blood vessels of the eye that suggested the Fovista combination therapy was enhancing the visual outcome compared to results previously seen with anti-VEGF monotherapy. 

Completed Phase 2b Clinical Trial of Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD 

In 2012, we completed a multicenter, randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2b clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of patients newly diagnosed with subfoveal wet AMD. We conducted this trial in 449 patients at approximately 69 centers in North America, South America, Europe and Israel. 

The primary objective of this trial was to evaluate the effect of two different doses of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. The primary efficacy endpoint of this trial was mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 24 weeks for Fovista and Lucentis combination therapy compared to Lucentis monotherapy. Prior to enrollment in the trial, we measured each patient's visual acuity to establish a baseline. Following assessment at baseline, visual acuity was measured at each subsequent four-week time point. We had diagnostic imaging techniques of fluorescein angiography and SD-OCT performed and assessed by an independent reading center at baseline and at week 24. 

Secondary efficacy endpoints for this trial included the following: 

&#149; mean change in visual acuity in ETDRS letters from baseline at 12 weeks; &#149; proportion of patients in each treatment group gaining 15 or more ETDRS letters from baseline at 12 weeks; &#149; proportion of patients in each treatment group gaining 15 or more ETDRS letters from baseline at 24 weeks; and &#149; mean change in area of choroidal neovascularization from baseline at 24 weeks. We randomly assigned patients in this trial to one of three treatment groups. Patients were treated and assessed once every four weeks for 24 weeks. Treatment for the three groups in the trial was as follows: 

&#149; In the first group, 149 patients received intravitreal injections of 0.3 mg of Fovista following intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of Lucentis. &#149; In the second group, 152 patients received intravitreal injections of 1.5 mg of Fovista following intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of Lucentis. &#149; In the third group, which served as the control arm of the trial, 148 patients received sham injections following intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of Lucentis. 23 

To reduce potential bias, the protocol for our Phase 2b clinical trial provided for a double-masked design so that neither the patient nor the investigational staff involved with assessing the vision of the patient knew to which group each patient belonged. The sham injection included all steps involved in the intravitreal treatment injections with the exception that patients in the control group had an empty syringe pressed against their eye walls without a needle. This procedure mimicked an intravitreal injection and helped to maintain proper masking. 

We made no meaningful changes to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in our Phase 2b clinical trial from those we used in our Phase 1 clinical trial. As in our Phase 1 clinical trial, we did not enroll patients with pure occult choroidal neovascularization because it would be difficult to adequately observe and measure the changes in the choroidal neovascular morphology using the imaging techniques that were generally available at most enrolling sites at the time we initiated our Phase 2b clinical trial. We believed that data regarding neovascular regression would be useful in assessing the effects of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis and in supporting the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

Measures of Mean Visual Acuity&#151;Primary Efficacy Endpoint 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline at 24 Weeks. In this trial, the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis demonstrated statistically significant superiority compared to Lucentis monotherapy based on the pre-specified primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at the 24 week time point. We determined statistical significance based on a widely used, conventional statistical method that establishes the p-value of clinical results. Typically, a p-value of 0.05 or less represents statistical significance. However, when multiple doses of a drug are tested against a single control group, a more stringent statistical method that accounts for multiple comparisons must be applied. For this purpose, we used the Hochberg multiple comparison procedure. Under the Hochberg procedure, in order to demonstrate statistical significance for any particular dose, it is necessary to establish a p-value that meets a stricter standard than the conventional standard of 0.05 or less unless each dose is statistically significant with a p-value of 0.05 or less. In the case of our Phase 2b clinical trial, in which we evaluated two doses of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis, the Hochberg procedure required a more stringent p-value of 0.025 or less to establish statistical significance for the comparison of the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis to Lucentis monotherapy. 

At 24 weeks, patients receiving the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis gained a mean of 10.6 ETDRS letters compared to a mean of 6.5 ETDRS letters for patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy, representing a 62% comparative benefit from baseline, with a p-value of 0.019. This result was statistically significant. At 24 weeks, patients receiving the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis gained a mean of 8.8 ETDRS letters. This result was not statistically significant, having a p-value greater than 0.05, compared to Lucentis monotherapy. However, as discussed in more detail below, we believe that the relative visual benefit of the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to the relative visual benefit of the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis at all time points exhibits a dose-response curve in which the response to treatment increases with higher drug concentrations of Fovista. We are not testing the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy in our Phase 3 clinical program. 

The graph below sets forth the results of the pre-specified primary endpoint in this Phase 2b clinical trial. 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline at 24 Weeks 

Measures of Mean Visual Acuity&#151;Mean Change in Visual Acuity From Baseline Over Time 

Patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis showed greater improvement in visual acuity from baseline compared to patients treated with Lucentis monotherapy at week four and at each subsequent four-week assessment. In addition, the relative magnitude of visual benefit favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis increased over the study period. The graph below sets forth the mean change in visual acuity from baseline for each treatment group over the course of the trial. 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline Over Time 

We believe that the divergence of the efficacy curves suggests an increasing relative benefit in visual outcome for the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis over time compared to Lucentis monotherapy. In addition, we believe that the relative visual benefit of the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to the relative visual benefit of the combination of 0.3 mg of Fovista and Lucentis at all time points exhibits a dose-response curve in which the response to treatment increases with higher drug concentrations of Fovista. 

Measures of Mean Visual Acuity&#151;Secondary Endpoints 

We evaluated measures of visual outcomes as secondary endpoints. Results from secondary endpoints are used to help interpret the primary result of the trial and to provide information for future research and clinical development. However, the statistical analysis plan for our Phase 2b clinical trial was not designed to establish and, as a result, we could not and did not demonstrate, statistical significance with respect to these secondary endpoints. Accordingly, only descriptive analyses and trends for secondary endpoints are presented below. 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline at 12 Weeks. We observed differences on the secondary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at the 12 week time point favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. At 12 weeks, patients receiving the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis gained a mean of 8.7 ETDRS letters compared to patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy who gained a mean of 5.1 ETDRS letters. The graph below sets forth the results of this secondary endpoint of visual acuity at 12 weeks. 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline at 12 Weeks 

Proportion of Patients Gaining 15 or More Letters from Baseline at 12 Weeks and at 24 Weeks. We observed differences in the proportion of patients that showed improvement of 15 ETDRS letters, or three lines, or better in visual acuity favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy both at 12 weeks and at 24 weeks of treatment. 

The table below sets forth at 12 weeks and 24 weeks the number of patients in the treatment group and the percentage of patients in such treatment group who gained the specified number of lines in visual acuity and the percentage of patients whose final visual acuity improved to the specified level. 

Proportion of Patients Gaining 15 or More ETDRS Letters 

Arm 

&#160; # (%) of Patients Gaining &#179; 15 letters at Week 12 &#160; # (%) of Patients Gaining &#179; 15 letters at Week 24 &#160; 1.5 mg Fovista + Lucentis &#160; &#160; 48 (31.8 )% &#160; 59 (39.1 )% 0.3 mg Fovista + Lucentis &#160; &#160; 31 (21.1 )% &#160; 49 (33.3 )% 0.5 mg Lucentis &#160; &#160; 33 (22.4 )% &#160; 50 (34.0 )% 

Measures of Mean Visual Acuity&#151;Clinically Relevant Retrospective Analyses 

We performed additional retrospective analyses of visual acuity measures that were not pre-specified primary or secondary endpoints in our Phase 2b clinical trial design. Although a retrospective analysis performed after unblinding trial results can result in the introduction of bias, we believe that these retrospective analyses may further support the results from our primary endpoint and the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

Retrospective Analysis of Visual Gain. We observed differences in the proportion of patients that showed improvement when measured by the number of lines of improvement in visual acuity from baseline, referred to as final visual acuity, favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. The graphs below set forth for each of these two treatment groups 

at 24 weeks the percentage of patients in such treatment group who gained the specified number of lines in visual acuity and the percentage of patients whose final visual acuity improved to the specified level. 

Visual Gain at 24 Weeks 

Retrospective Analysis of Visual Loss. We observed differences in loss of visual acuity from baseline favoring the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. The graphs below set forth for each of these two treatment groups the percentage of patients in such treatment group who lost the specified number of lines in visual acuity and the percentage of patients whose final visual acuity declined to the specified level. 

Visual Loss at 24 Weeks 

Measures of Anatomical Changes&#151;Secondary Endpoint 

We evaluated one measure of anatomical change as a secondary endpoint. Results from secondary endpoints are used to help interpret the primary result of the trial and to provide information for future research and clinical development. However, the statistical analysis plan for our Phase 2b clinical trial was not designed to establish and, as a result, we could not and did not demonstrate, statistical significance with respect to this secondary endpoint. Accordingly, only descriptive analyses and trends for this secondary endpoint are presented below. 

Mean Change in Area of Choroidal Neovascularization from Baseline at 24 Weeks. In our Phase 2b clinical trial, the mean change in area of choroidal neovascularization, or CNV, from baseline at 24 weeks as determined by review of fluorescein angiograms was greater in patients treated with Lucentis monotherapy than in patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis. We believe that the inclusion of both larger and smaller CNV sizes in the single analysis of this secondary endpoint had the potential to create a distortion in the analysis of the mean change in area of CNV. This is because the average level of regression, as numerically measured, was approximately tenfold greater in the large CNV size patient group compared to the small CNV size patient group. The treatment group with the greater number of patients with larger CNV sizes will show a markedly larger amount of regression on average. That was the case in our Phase 2b trial in which the Lucentis monotherapy group had a greater proportion of patients with large CNV sizes compared to the group treated with a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis. Therefore, as discussed in more detail below, we performed retrospective analyses by creating subgroups based on the size of CNV at baseline. 

Measures of Anatomical Changes&#151;Retrospective Analyses 

We performed retrospective analyses of anatomical changes, based on choroidal neovascularization and subretinal hyper-reflective material, or SHRM, that were not pre-specified primary or secondary endpoints in the trial design. Although a retrospective analysis performed after unblinding trial results can result in the introduction of bias, we believe that these retrospective analyses may further support the results from our primary endpoint and the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

Retrospective Analysis of Choroidal Neovascularization. We performed several retrospective analyses of neovascular regression by creating subgroups based on CNV sizes. Size of CNV is measured in units called disc area. A disc area is the size of the area of the retina where a standard sized optic nerve emerges. We determined that the mean CNV size for all patients in the Phase 2b clinical trial at baseline was 1.62 disc areas. We created two subgroups of patients based on mean CNV size at baseline. One subgroup of patients, referred to as the large CNV size patients, had initial CNV size greater than 1.62 disc areas. The other subgroup of patients, referred to as the small CNV size patients, had initial CNV size of less than or equal to 1.62 disc areas. 

We believe the results described below of our retrospective analyses of mean change in area of choroidal neovascularization from baseline at 24 weeks determined by review of fluorescein angiograms in patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy may support the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. We included in these retrospective analyses only those patients whose CNV size we were able to assess both at baseline and at 24 weeks. 

Patients in both the large CNV size patient subgroup and small CNV size patient subgroup showed greater reductions in the size of choroidal neovascularization from baseline when treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis as compared to patients in the applicable subgroup receiving Lucentis monotherapy. The graphs below set forth the results of this subgroup analysis. 

Mean Change in Area of CNV at 24 Weeks 

In addition, we performed a further retrospective subgroup analysis of patients who experienced a visual gain of more than three lines from baseline after 24 weeks of treatment. Both large CNV size patients and small CNV size patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis showed a marked reduction in the average size of choroidal neovascularization from baseline when compared to large CNV size patients and small CNV size patients treated with Lucentis monotherapy. The graphs below set forth the results of this subgroup analysis. 

Mean Change in Area of CNV at 24 Weeks in Patients with Visual Gain of More Than 3-Lines 

Retrospective Analysis of Subretinal Hyper-Reflective Material. We performed a retrospective review of SD-OCT images of patients who participated in the trial without regard to baseline size of choroidal neovascularization. SD-OCT is the imaging technique most widely used today in clinical practice for the evaluation of wet AMD. Unlike fluorescein angiograms, SD-OCT images show a cross-sectional view of the retina that permits excellent resolution of the space under the retina and at the RPE-choroid interface where the neovascularization of wet AMD is present. The presence of subretinal hyper-reflective material is thought by many experts to indicate the presence of the CNV lesion. The subsequent resolution of subretinal hyper-reflective material is thought to correlate with regression of the CNV lesion. 

In our retrospective analysis, masked readers trained in the reading of the SD-OCT retinal images assessed the retinal images of patients who participated in the trial for the presence of subretinal hyper-reflective material at baseline and at 24 weeks. We conducted this retrospective analysis based on the SD-OCT retinal images which were read for each patient group at baseline and at week 24. The analysis at week 24 included only patients who completed the study and had SD-OCT retinal images acceptable for analysis. 

Patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis exhibited greater resolution of subretinal hyper-reflective material from baseline compared to patients treated with Lucentis monotherapy. In addition, based on our review of SD-OCT images, patients who experienced a visual gain of more than three lines from baseline at 24 weeks and were treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis exhibited greater resolution of subretinal hyper-reflective material from baseline than patients who experienced a similar visual gain and were treated with Lucentis monotherapy. The graphs below set forth for each of these two treatment groups the percentage of patients in such treatment group who had subretinal hyper-reflective material at baseline and the percentage of those patients who exhibited an absence of such subretinal hyper-reflective material at 24 weeks. 

Subretinal Hyper-Reflective Material 

We believe the results of our retrospective analysis of SD-OCT retinal images at baseline and at 24 weeks in patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy supports the anti-neovascularization element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

Retrospective Analysis of Subretinal Fibrosis Development of subretinal fibrosis is typically associated with poor visual outcomes in wet AMD patients. We have undertaken a retrospective analysis of retinal images from patients who had vision loss or lack of visual gain at 24 weeks following treatment with either 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with 0.5 mg of Lucentis or Lucentis monotherapy in our Phase 2b clinical trial to investigate the development of subretinal fibrosis in these patients. Our initial retrospective assessment of retinal images of these patients indicates a reduction, on average, in the development and severity of subretinal fibrosis at the 24 week time point in patients treated with the combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis compared to patients receiving Lucentis monotherapy. We engaged independent third-party retinal experts to review these images to assess the development of subretinal fibrosis in this group of patients. In October 2014, findings from an independent subgroup analysis assessing the development and progression of subretinal fibrosis in our Phase 2b clinical trial were presented at the American Academy of Ophthalmology annual meeting. This retrospective analysis showed that the mean change in severity of subretinal fibrosis from baseline to conclusion of the study at 24 weeks was 0.97 for the Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy group as compared to 2.0 for the Lucentis monotherapy group (P = 0.003), based on a five-step grading scale developed by Dr. Usha Chakravarthy, an internationally recognized key opinion leader. At 24 weeks, approximately twice the number of patients on standard of care anti-VEGF monotherapy (54%) were noted to have progression of subretinal fibrosis compared to the Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy group (27%). In eyes without any subretinal fibrosis at baseline, subretinal fibrosis developed in 10% of patients who received Fovista (1.5 mg) combination therapy, compared to 51% of the patients who received monotherapy Lucentis. We believe such findings may provide support for the anti-fibrotic element of our proposed mechanism of action for Fovista. 

In May 2015, we completed enrollment in our OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study. See "&#151;Potentially Expanding the Use of Fovista&#151;Fovista Expansion Studies in Wet AMD" below for a description of Dr. Chakravarthy's fibrosis grading scale, the OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study and the interim data for two subgroups of patients in this trial. 

Safety 

Fovista was generally well tolerated in the Phase 2b trial at both doses tested in combination with Lucentis. We did not observe any cases of infection inside the eye, or endophthalmitis. We observed one case of severe intraocular inflammation among the patients treated with 0.3 mg of Fovista in combination with Lucentis and no such cases among the patients treated with 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with Lucentis. We did not observe any significant imbalances among treatment groups in the incidence of ocular adverse events or systemic adverse events, including cardiovascular events or stroke. The number of patients in our Phase 2b clinical trial with one or more serious systemic adverse events, the most common systemic serious adverse events in this trial organized by MedDRA system 

organ class, a standard method of reporting adverse events, and by antiplatelet trialists' collaboration events, a standard method of reporting cardiovascular adverse events, are set forth in the table below. 

&#160; &#160; Monotherapy Lucentis N = 148 &#160; 0.3 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 149 &#160; 1.5 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 152 &#160; Patients With One or More Systemic Serious Adverse Events &#160; &#160; 11 (7.4 )% &#160; 13 (8.7 )% &#160; 9 (5.9 )% MedDRA System Organ Class(1) &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Cardiac Disorders &#160; &#160; 2 (1.4 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% Gastrointestinal Disorders &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% &#160; 3 (2.0 )% Infections &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% Musculoskeletal Disorders &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% Neoplasms &#160; &#160; 3 (2.0 )% &#160; 3 (2.0 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% Nervous System Disorders &#160; &#160; 3 (2.0 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% Respiratory Disorders &#160; &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 3 (2.0 )% &#160; 2 (1.3 )% Any Antiplatelet Trialists' Collaboration (APTC) Event &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Non-Fatal Myocardial Infarction &#160; &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% Non-Fatal Stroke &#160; &#160; 2 (1.4 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% Vascular Death &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% 

(1) Data are listed only for system organ classes with three or more events. 

There was one serious adverse event in the study eye in each of the treatment groups. The serious adverse event was different among each of the treatment groups as shown in the table below. 

&#160; &#160; Monotherapy Lucentis N = 148 &#160; 0.3 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 149 &#160; 1.5 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 152 &#160; Ocular Serious Adverse Events &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% Corneal Erosion &#160; &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% Uveitis &#160; &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% Visual Acuity Reduced &#160; &#160; 1 (0.7 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% &#160; 0 (0.0 )% 

The most common adverse events in the study eye are set forth in the table below. 

Ocular Adverse Events Reported in Study Eye in 5% or More of Patients in Any Arm 

&#160; &#160; Monotherapy Lucentis N = 148 &#160; 0.3 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 149 &#160; 1.5 mg Fovista + Lucentis N = 152 &#160; Patients with One or More Adverse Events &#160; &#160; 75 (50.7 )% &#160; 79 (53.0 )% &#160; 79 (52.0 )% Conjunctival hemorrhage &#160; &#160; 37 (25.0 )% &#160; 34 (22.8 )% &#160; 51 (33.6 )% Punctate keratitis &#160; &#160; 10 (6.8 )% &#160; 19 (12.8 )% &#160; 15 (9.9 )% Eye pain &#160; &#160; 8 (5.4 )% &#160; 10 (6.7 )% &#160; 13 (8.6 )% Conjunctival hyperemia &#160; &#160; 13 (8.8 )% &#160; 9 (6.0 )% &#160; 13 (8.6 )% Subretinal fibrosis &#160; &#160; 8 (5.4 )% &#160; 6 (4.0 )% &#160; 5 (3.3 )% Intraocular pressure increase &#160; &#160; 4 (2.7 )% &#160; 8 (5.4 )% &#160; 9 (5.9 )% 

Most of the common ocular adverse events in this trial were related to the intravitreal preparation and injection procedure and were not drug related. These intravitreal adverse events, as reflected in the table above, included conjunctival hemorrhage, punctate keratitis, eye pain and conjunctival hyperemia. Most adverse events of increased intraocular pressure occurred after injection, were transient, were 

related to the injection and were treated and resolved the same day. Mean intraocular pressure in each treatment group returned to pre-injection level at the next assessment, including at the end of the trial. 

Ongoing Phase 3 Clinical Program for Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD 

Our pivotal Phase 3 clinical program consists of three separate Phase 3 clinical trials, two of which are evaluating Fovista in combination with Lucentis and the other of which is evaluating Fovista in combination with Avastin or Eylea. We plan to enroll a total of approximately 1,866 patients in more than 250 centers internationally across the three trials. We completed patient enrollment in one of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials in May 2015 and in the other Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trial in November 2015. We are continuing to actively enroll patients in the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial and expect to complete enrollment in 2016 based on current enrollment estimates. We expect initial, top-line data from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials to be available during the fourth quarter of 2016, with initial, top-line data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial to be available in 2017 based on current enrollment estimates. 

The primary efficacy endpoint of our Phase 3 clinical trials is mean change in visual acuity from baseline for Fovista and anti-VEGF combination therapy compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy at 12 months. Secondary efficacy endpoints for our Phase 3 clinical trials will include the following: 

&#149; proportion of patients in each treatment group gaining 20 or more ETDRS letters from baseline at month 12; and &#149; proportion of patients in each treatment group losing 5 or more ETDRS letters from baseline at month 12; and &#149; other visual and anatomical measures. The two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials are evaluating the safety and efficacy of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis compared to Lucentis monotherapy. The Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin trial is evaluating the safety and efficacy of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with each of Eylea or Avastin compared to Eylea or Avastin monotherapy. All of these Phase 3 clinical trials incorporate significant aspects from the design of our completed Phase 2b clinical trial. 

The protocols for our Phase 3 clinical trials and other supporting information are subject to review by the FDA and regulatory authorities outside the United States. The FDA is not obligated to comment on our protocols within any specified time period or at all or to affirmatively clear or approve our Phase 3 clinical program. We submitted the protocols for our Phase 3 clinical trials to the FDA in July 2013. To date, we have not received any comments on the design of our Phase 3 clinical program from the FDA. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may request additional information, require us to conduct additional non-clinical trials or require us to modify our proposed Phase 3 clinical program, including its endpoints, patient enrollment criteria or selection of anti-VEGF drugs, to continue such program once initiated. In September 2013, the FDA notified us that we have obtained fast track designation for Fovista for the treatment of wet AMD. 

Outside the United States, we have obtained all of the necessary country approvals to proceed with our Phase 3 trials except for the Brazilian approval required to proceed with our Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, which we are pursuing. In the European Union, in addition to filing in selected countries with national competent authorities responsible for approving clinical trial applications, we have had interactions regarding our planned application for marketing approval with the EMA's CHMP, which is the committee responsible for preparing opinions on questions concerning medicines for human use. The CHMP informed us that the final label for Fovista, if it receives marketing approval, may be required to specify the licensed anti-VEGF drugs that were studied in combination with Fovista, given 

that Avastin is not approved for intravitreal use, rather than a label specifying Fovista for use in combination with any anti-VEGF drug. 

We expect initial, top-line data from both of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials to be available during the fourth quarter of 2016, with initial, top-line data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial to be available in 2017 based on current enrollment estimates. We plan to initially submit an NDA to the FDA, for Fovista in combination with Lucentis based upon data from the two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials and subsequently submit an amendment to the NDA with data from the Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial, subject to a favorable data outcome from these trials. Alternatively, we may choose to file a supplemental NDA for Fovista in combination with Eylea or Avastin following FDA review of the NDA for Fovista in combination with Lucentis. In addition, we continue to evaluate various filing strategies for marketing authorizations in Europe and other ex-U.S. territories with Novartis, our ex-U.S. commercialization partner for Fovista. 

We believe that clinically meaningful favorable results from two of our Phase 3 clinical trials in which a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista with an anti-VEGF drug achieves superiority over anti-VEGF drug monotherapy with statistical significance on the primary endpoint of mean change in visual acuity from baseline at 12 months, together with the results of our Phase 1 and Phase 2b clinical trials, will be sufficient to support applications for marketing approval of Fovista for the treatment of wet AMD in the United States and the European Union. However, if favorable results from two of our three Phase 3 clinical trials include results from only one of our Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of a combination of 1.5 mg of Fovista and Lucentis, the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities may not grant, or may request additional information, including the results of additional clinical trials, prior to granting, marketing approval for Fovista. 

We expect to submit our applications for marketing approval based on data regarding the primary efficacy endpoint from our Phase 3 clinical trials after 12 months of treatment. We also expect that 12-month safety data will satisfy the safety database requirements for submission of our applications. In accordance with their protocols, our Phase 3 clinical trials will continue after such submissions. We expect that each of the FDA and the EMA will review any additional safety and efficacy data that is available from the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials, or any other clinical trials involving Fovista, at the time of the FDA's or EMA's review of our applications for marketing approval. 

For each patient enrolled in the Phase 3 clinical trials, we are measuring the patient's best-corrected visual acuity prior to treatment to establish a baseline against which subsequent visual acuity changes after treatment can be compared. The protocols for each of these trials provide that patients be assessed monthly. The administration of treatment varies among the three trials. In the two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials, patients are treated monthly for the first 12 months. In one of the two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials, during the second 12 months, patients will be treated every other month and can be retreated during the intervening months in accordance with specific retreatment criteria set forth in the protocol for the trial based on visual acuity and imaging. In the second Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trial, during the second 12 months treatment will be administered based upon the stability of the patient's visual acuity, ophthalmic examination and imaging consistent with EU labeling of Lucentis. These two Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials build upon and incorporate significant aspects from the design of our Phase 2b clinical trial of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis while evaluating the administration of Fovista combination therapy over a longer overall treatment period in a greater number of patients. 

In each of the Fovista Phase 3 Lucentis Trials, we randomly assigned patients to one of two treatment groups with approximately 311 patients in each group. Treatment for the two groups in each of these two trials is as follows: 

&#149; Patients in the first group receive intravitreal injections of 1.5 mg of Fovista following intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of Lucentis. 35 

&#149; Patients in the second group, which serves as the control arm of the trial, receive sham injections following intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of Lucentis. The Fovista Phase 3 Eylea/Avastin Trial has a similar trial design. In this third trial, we are randomly assigning patients to one of two treatment groups with approximately 311 patients in each group. Treatment for the two groups in this trial is as follows: 

&#149; Patients in the first group are further randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive intravitreal injections of one of the following treatments: &#149; 1.5 mg of Fovista following intravitreal injections of 1.25 mg of Avastin; or &#149; 1.5 mg of Fovista following intravitreal injections of 2.0 mg of Eylea. &#149; Patients in the second group, which serves as the control arm of the trial, are further randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive one of the following treatments: &#149; sham injections following intravitreal injections of 1.25 mg of Avastin; or &#149; sham injections following intravitreal injections of 2.0 mg of Eylea. The patients randomized to receive Avastin are treated monthly for 24 months and the patients randomized to receive Eylea are treated every month for the first three months followed by every other month thereafter. 

We have made no meaningful changes to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in these Phase 3 clinical trials from those we used in our Phase 2b clinical trial. However, we have modified the methodology used to determine a patient's eligibility under certain of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for our Phase 3 clinical trials as compared to our Phase 2b clinical trial. For our Phase 2b trial, we assessed patient eligibility based on the fluorescein angiographic pattern of the choroidal neovascular membrane. Since the most commonly employed modality for imaging, diagnosing and managing neovascular AMD is currently SD-OCT, we have modified the methodology to determine the patient's eligibility to include SD-OCT criteria. To ensure that uniform criteria are applied in characterizing patients' neovascular lesions, we have engaged a centralized reading center to review the SD-OCT, fluorescein angiograms and fundus images of each patient's affected eye. Fundus images are photos of the back of the eye taken using a camera attached to a specialized, low-power microscope. These photos, which are often in color, show various elements of the back of the eye, including the retina, retinal vasculature, optic disc, macula and fovea. For our Phase 3 clinical trials, the reading center uses all three of these imaging modalities, fluorescein angiography, SD-OCT and fundus images, to assess the eligibility of patients based on the presence of abnormal new blood vessels relative to the RPE at the time of enrollment. 

SD-OCT utilizes specialized light scattering through the biological tissues and obtains high resolution retinal tissue images using a specialized camera. Considerable technological advances in the latest generation of SD-OCT machines have resulted in marked improvement in retinal image resolution. Currently there is a shift toward using the latest, high-resolution SD-OCT models in most retinal focused practices. The use of fluorescein angiography for imaging has been replaced by SD-OCT in the United States and the European Union as the most common standard for retinal imaging in wet AMD management. 

SD-OCT images show a cross sectional view of the retina permitting enhanced resolution of the space under the retina where the neovascularization is typically present, along with assessment of the relative location of the neovascularization with respect to the RPE layer. This location of the neovascular lesion relative to the RPE, that is, above or below the RPE, is more precise with the SD-OCT. Assessment of such characteristics of the neovascular lesion by fluorescein angiography has inherent variability between certified readers at the reading centers and is often reflected as 

inconsistency in subtype determinations. Fluorescein angiography continues to be utilized because of its high sensitivity for the detection of the presence of an active neovascular lesion. We believe that use of a centralized reading center and the latest imaging technologies enables us to confirm patient eligibility and properly classify neovascular characteristics and the associated leakage in an accurate and standardized manner prior to enrolling patients in the trial. 

Furthermore, as was the case in both our Phase 1 clinical trial and our Phase 2b clinical trial, there is a 30-minute delay in the injection of Fovista after the anti-VEGF drug. 

Potential Additional Studies of Fovista for Wet AMD Patients as Part of Our Phase 3 Clinical Program 

Each element of our Phase 3 clinical trial design has the potential to affect the label for Fovista if we receive marketing approval from the FDA, the EMA or another regulatory authority. In each of the cases described below, if we determine that a related change to the approved label has the potential to increase the use or market acceptance of Fovista, we likely would conduct an appropriate study in a separate pre-marketing approval clinical trial or in a post-marketing approval clinical trial. 

Lesion Characteristics. Treating physicians typically do not use subtype categorization as a diagnostic tool for choosing among pharmacological agents for treating wet AMD. The process for determining whether or not a wet AMD patient has pure occult choroidal neovascularization has evolved considerably in the United States and European Union over the last five years, with SD-OCT replacing fluorescein angiography as the diagnostic standard. There is significant variability and inconsistency among physicians and reading centers with respect to the determination of the presence and amount of the occult component of lesions using fluorescein angiography. Different reading centers may categorize a patient differently on the basis of the same image if fluorescein angiography is used to assess the occult component of choroidal neovascularization. We believe the use of SD-OCT to assess choroidal neovascularization at the time of enrollment in our Phase 3 clinical trials will alleviate some of the variability and inconsistency inherent in using fluorescein angiography. SD-OCT will be used to assess the characteristics of abnormal new vessels, which historically, using fluorescein angiography, have been associated with the subtype occult neovascularization. SD-OCT is the current standard of imaging of wet AMD patients and we believe that the use of SD-OCT will provide a more precise analysis of the anatomical differences between the various angiographic subtypes of CNV lesions in neovascular AMD. Microscopic examination of retinas taken from deceased patients who suffered from choroidal neovascularization shows that abnormal new blood vessels characterized as occult choroidal neovascularization using fluorescein angiography have similar morphology to those characterized as classic choroidal neovascularization, including pericyte coverage. 

The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authority will determine, based on the data we present and the FDA's, EMA's or other regulatory authority's assessment of risks and benefits to patients, whether the label for Fovista, if approved, will exclude its use for the treatment of patients who were not primarily enrolled on the basis of SD-OCT assessment. If we determine that the potential Fovista label may exclude its use for the treatment of patients with certain SD-OCT criteria, we likely would conduct an appropriate clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug for the treatment of patients who were excluded on the basis of SD-OCT imaging. 

Waiting Period Prior to Injection of Fovista. An intravitreal injection results in an elevation of intraocular pressure, or IOP, which usually is transient. Labels for the currently approved anti-VEGF drugs include descriptions related to monitoring IOP after intravitreal injection of these drugs. We have provided for a delay in the intravitreal injection of Fovista to minimize the risk in our clinical trials of an unacceptable increase in IOP as a result of the amount of the two agents injected. We have not seen any meaningful or sustained increase in IOP in our clinical trials of Fovista to date, and we believe that Fovista likely could be delivered by intravitreal injection immediately after the anti-VEGF 

drug without an unacceptable increase in IOP. However, if we apply for marketing approval for Fovista, the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities will determine, based on the data we present and the regulatory authority's assessment of risk to patients, whether the label for Fovista will provide for the administration of Fovista immediately after the anti-VEGF drug, 30 minutes after the anti-VEGF drug or after some other waiting period. If we determine that the potential Fovista label may provide for a waiting period between the administration of the anti-VEGF drug and Fovista, we likely would conduct an appropriate clinical trial to evaluate the safety of administration of Fovista immediately after the administration of the anti-VEGF. 

Potentially Expanding the Use of Fovista 

Fovista Expansion Studies in Wet AMD 

In addition to our ongoing Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, we have initiated multiple additional clinical trials to evaluate the potential additional benefits of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs in wet AMD patients. We refer to these trials as the Fovista Expansion Studies. They include: 

OPH1005 Fovista Anti-Fibrosis Study 

Wet AMD patients who develop subretinal fibrosis affecting the central macula, on average, have worse visual outcomes compared to patients who do not develop subretinal fibrosis. Moreover, during the maintenance phase of anti-VEGF treatment, data from multiple third-party clinical trials suggest that patients who receive discontinuous anti-VEGF monotherapy during the maintenance phase of anti-VEGF treatment have suboptimal visual outcomes compared to patients who receive continuous anti-VEGF monotherapy. Discontinuous anti-VEGF monotherapy consists of either pro re nata , or PRN, meaning "as needed" based on the physician's assessment, or regular bi-monthly or quarterly dosing regimens. Continuous anti-VEGF monotherapy for Lucentis or Avastin consists of monthly administration or, in the case of Eylea, bi-monthly administration. Moreover, data from these third-party clinical trials also suggest that on average, once patients lose vision following the switch from a continuous regimen to a discontinuous regimen, a subsequent increase in the frequency of anti-VEGF dosing does not appear to improve patient vision to the level achieved prior to switching the regimen. 

In preclinical animal models of subretinal fibrosis, inhibition of PDGF has been shown to reduce the amount of scar tissue formation. We believe that the retrospective analysis conducted by independent readers of retinal images of patients in our completed Phase 2b trial with visual loss or lack of visual gain at 24 weeks following treatment with either 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis or Lucentis monotherapy is consistent with our hypothesis that Fovista mediated PDGF inhibition may result in inhibition of subretinal fibrosis. See "Completed Phase 2b Clinical Trial of Fovista Combination Therapy for Wet AMD&#151;Retrospective Analysis of Subretinal Fibrosis" above for a discussion of the results of this analysis. 

During the third quarter of 2014, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with either Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin, to study subretinal fibrosis in wet AMD patients. Because the objective of the trial was to investigate Fovista combination therapy and subretinal fibrosis, the trial protocol permitted enrollment of a broader range of patients as compared to standard anti-VEGF treatment na&#239;ve protocols used in large registration trials. For example, patients with the following characteristics could be enrolled in the trial: 

&#149; patients with scarring or fibrosis affecting 50% or more of their total CNV lesion area (so long as scarring or fibrosis was not sub-foveal); &#149; patients with atrophy affecting 50% or more of their total CNV lesion area (so long as the atrophy was not sub-foveal); 38 

&#149; patients with sub-retinal hemorrhage covering greater than 50% of their total CNV lesion area; and &#149; patients with baseline visual acuity of up to 20/400. The enrollment of patients in the trial was based upon investigator discretion and interpretation of the eligibility criteria contained in the protocol. This trial does not have any pre-specified efficacy endpoints as it is an uncontrolled, open-label Phase 2a study with broad patient eligibility criteria, which typically would not permit an adequate efficacy assessment. 

The protocol for this trial requires an initial induction phase of six monthly injections of Fovista administered in combination with Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin, followed by a discontinuous regimen of quarterly administrations of Fovista combination therapy. The protocol permits retreatment with Fovista combination therapy during the intervening monthly visits between quarterly administrations if the patient incurs vision loss of at least five ETDRS letters, regardless of any other objective findings. In addition, absent a loss in vision, investigators may decide to retreat at monthly visits in between quarterly administrations based upon increases in hemorrhage and/or intraretinal fluid. We completed enrollment in this trial in May 2015 with a total of 101 patients enrolled. Patients are followed for a 24-month period. 

In December 2015 at our R&#38;D Investor Day, we presented initial interim data for a subgroup of patients that had reached the month 14 time point (n=6) and month 13 time point (n=16, inclusive of the six patients reaching month 14) as of a predetermined data collection date approximately six weeks prior to data presentation. The analysis for these 16 patients consisted of visual acuity data, as well as data regarding subretinal fibrosis obtained from fundus images taken at the month 12 time point. To illustrate the broad eligibility criteria for the trial, we presented selected images, including SD-OCT, fundus images and fluorescein angiograms, for ten of the 16 patients. 

Fibrosis Data at Month 12 Time Point 

Subretinal fibrosis was evaluated based on the assessment of fundus images using a continuous five-step grading system. This grading system was developed by an internationally recognized key opinion leader, Dr. Usha Chakravarthy, Professor, Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, at the Royal Victoria Hospital (The Belfast Trust) and Queens University of Belfast, Northern Ireland. Dr. Chakravarthy graded the fundus images at baseline and the month 12 time point in a masked fashion. The grading system assigns a numerical score for each fundus image from "0 to 4" as follows: 

&#149; "0"&#151;Fibrosis is absent &#149; "1"&#151;Fibrosis is barely visible &#149; "2"&#151;Fibrosis is mild &#149; "3"&#151;Fibrosis is moderate &#149; "4"&#151;Fibrosis is severe. 39 

That data revealed that none of the 16 patients who had reached the month 13 time point exhibited development or progression of fibrosis at the month 12 time point. Development or progression of fibrosis is defined as a two-step progression in grading. 

Visual Acuity Data for Month 13 and 14 Time Points 

Visual acuity was evaluated as the mean and median change in ETDRS letters from baseline. On average, we observed a trend of increasing visual acuity during the induction phase of six continuous monthly administrations, followed by a relative drop in visual acuity in between quarterly administrations during the maintenance phase. In addition, on average, relative improvements in visual acuity were noted at the next monthly visit following retreatment at the protocol-mandated quarterly time points. At the latest evaluated time point in this subgroup of patients, visual acuity had, on average, returned to the approximate level of visual acuity observed at month 6 following the induction phase. 

The graph below sets forth the mean and median gain in ETDRS letters from baseline at each month of the study through month 13 for these 16 patients. Both the mean and the median are presented as one patient in this subgroup of 16 patients experienced a significant amount of relative visual loss. 

Mean and Median Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline through Month 13 

We also presented visual acuity data for the six patients that reached the month 14 time point as of the pre-specified data collection date. The graph below sets forth for these six patients the change in visual acuity, measured in ETDRS letters, from month 13 to month 14. 

Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Month 13 at Month 14 

In addition, we also presented a similar visual acuity graph, displaying both mean and median change in visual acuity from baseline, for this subgroup of 16 patients at the 14 month time point based on the last observation carried forward, or LOCF, method to impute missing values. The LOCF method is a method to account for missing values at specific time points for a specific patient by carrying forward the value observed at the last time point for which data is available for that specific patient. In the case of this trial, data were missing for the month 14 time point for the ten patients who had not yet reached that time point. The graph below sets forth for these 16 patients both the mean and median gain in ETDRS letters from baseline at each month of the study through month 14 using the LOCF method. 

Mean and Median Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline through Month 14 LOCF Method 

The analysis of the interim data presented from this open-label trial was not pre-specified in the trial protocol. The foregoing data consisted of data for only 16 of 101 patients enrolled, was preliminary in nature and, as with any interim data collected from a clinical trial, may be inconsistent with, or not representative of the final data outcome from the trial. Given the small sample size and 

lack of control group, we believe inferences with respect to efficacy or safety findings at the time points for which data were presented are challenging to assess and may not be reliable. However, relative to published data from other clinical trials regarding visual outcomes for wet AMD patients receiving discontinuous administration of anti-VEGF monotherapy during the maintenance phase, we believe the data from this trial suggests a potential role for Fovista combination therapy to reduce the treatment burden for wet AMD patients. 

Visual Acuity Data for Patients with Baseline 20/40 Vision or Better 

As part of the R&#38;D Investor Day, a key opinion leader also presented real world data outcomes collected from U.S. electronic medical records showing that wet AMD patients who typically receive discontinuous anti-VEGF monotherapy, on average, lose vision at the one year time point. These data are consistent with published data from European studies. In addition to the data for the 16-patient subgroup described above, at R&#38;D Investor Day, we presented additional data from our OPH1005 Anti-Fibrosis Study for a subgroup of 20 patients with baseline vision of 20/40 or better. These patients were followed prospectively based on visual acuity criteria. Seventeen of these patients reached the month 6 time point at the time of data collection. These patients experienced a mean improvement in visual acuity of 4.5 ETDRS letters, equivalent to 20/32 vision, at the month 6 time point. In addition, seven of these patients reached the month 11 time point and experienced an average additional gain of 0.43 ETDRS letters as compared to the month 6 time point. This data is summarized in the following graph. 

Mean Change in Visual Acuity (VA) from Baseline for Patients with Baseline 20/40 Vision or Better 

We believe Fovista combination therapy may result in better outcomes in this subgroup of patients with 20/40 or better vision compared to what the real world outcome studies suggest. However, given the small sample size and lack of control group, we believe inferences with respect to efficacy or safety findings at the time points for which data were presented are challenging to assess and may not be reliable. Therefore, a confirmatory, well-controlled clinical trial with a larger sample size may be warranted before drawing any conclusions regarding the role of Fovista combination therapy for these patients. 

OPH1006 Fovista Treatment Burden Reduction Study. 

We believe that Fovista combination therapy may allow for less frequent dosing and patient visits compared to anti-VEGF monotherapy, thus potentially reducing patient treatment burden. In retrospective analyses of our completed Phase 2b clinical trial of Fovista, we observed that treatment with Fovista combination therapy, on average, results in a greater degree of resolution of the choroidal neovascular complex or decreased size of the neovascular tissue in patients with both small and large lesions in wet AMD patients, compared to treatment with anti-VEGF monotherapy. OCT and fluorescein angiography imaging modalities were used to assess these anatomic measures. We believe that the reduction in the size of the choroidal neovascular complex could lead to a reduction in the number of cellular elements releasing angiogenic mediators, including VEGF and/or PDGF, which may translate into a reduced need for intravitreal injections to achieve similar levels of inhibition of these mediators. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin), to investigate the optimized regimen of Fovista administration in anti-VEGF drugs. In addition, this trial may also allow us to evaluate the potential of Fovista to reduce the treatment burden for wet AMD patients. We completed enrollment in this trial in October 2015 with a total of 64 patients enrolled. Patients are followed over an 18-month period. 

OPH1007 Fovista in Combination with Avastin Discontinuous Regimen Study 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2b clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a discontinuous, bimonthly regimen of 1.5 mg of Fovista administered in combination with Avastin during the maintenance phase of wet AMD treatment, compared to a discontinuous, bimonthly regimen of Avastin monotherapy. We believe that off-label use of Avastin for the treatment of wet AMD has not been extensively studied in randomized, controlled clinical trials, similar to those that have been conducted for approved anti-VEGF drugs. Our initial sites for this study are in the Netherlands, where we believe Avastin administered through a discontinuous, bimonthly regimen is the current standard of care for the treatment of wet AMD. We expect to expand the trial to include additional sites and/or countries. 

OPH1008 Fovista Imaging Study 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial to investigate the role of multi-modal imaging in assessing anatomic responses to various wet AMD treatment regimens of Fovista (1.5 mg) administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin). This trial will include both wet AMD patients who have previously received anti-VEGF treatment, whom we refer to as treatment experienced, as well as wet AMD patients who have not previously received anti-VEGF treatment, whom we refer to as treatment na&#239;ve. 

Investigator Sponsored Trials 

In addition, we have supplied Fovista for use in small, investigator sponsored, pilot clinical trials of Fovista administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs. The trials seek to evaluate differing treatment regimens, including variations to the order in which Fovista and the anti-VEGF drug are administered. 

Initial data from one of these investigator sponsored trials, an ongoing anti-fibrosis trial being conducted at the Retinal Consultants of Arizona, has been presented at various medical meetings beginning in February 2015. In this 24-month study of 30 patients, 27 of whom are considered to be anti-VEGF resistant, patients receive administration of 1.5 mg of Fovista in combination with either Avastin or Eylea, either with pre-treatment with 1.5 mg of Fovista two days in advance of combination therapy (n=10) or combination therapy without pretreatment (n=17). In February 2015 data were 

presented showing that at the month 3 time point, anti-VEGF resistant patients receiving pre-treatment with Fovista gained an average of 11.1 ETDRS letters from baseline compared to an average gain of 4.7 ETDRS letters from baseline for anti-VEGF resistant patients not receiving pre-treatment. In February 2016 data were presented showing that at the month 18 time point, anti-VEGF resistant patients receiving pre-treatment with Fovista gained an average of 20.3 ETDRS letters from baseline compared to an average gain of 1.6 ETDRS letters from baseline for anti-VEGF patients not receiving pre-treatment. Standardization in visual acuity measurements and prior drug regimen was not uniform in this small sample size study, nor was there a control group. 

Planned Clinical Trials of Fovista in Additional Indications 

We are also exploring clinical development of Fovista for the treatment of a number of ophthalmic conditions with unmet medical need in which PDGF inhibition with Fovista administration may be beneficial. These indications include Von Hippel-Lindau disease and proliferative vitreoretinopathy. 

&#149; Von Hippel-Lindau disease, or VHL, is an inherited disease characterized by multiple benign and malignant tumors and cysts in the eye and other organs. Deficiency of the protein "pVHL" in multiple cell types is thought to cause VHL. In the eye, tumors consisting of blood cells called retinal capillary hemangiomas, or RCH, are the most common and earliest manifestation of VHL. These tumors cause significant retinal leakage and may lead to significant vision loss. Smaller lesions, located a significant distance from the central regions of the retina can be treated by laser or freezing via cryotherapy. However, larger and poorly situated lesions are usually untreatable or have poor visual prognoses. PDGF levels have been shown to be elevated in cells with deficiency of pVHL. Therefore, we believe that a combination of Fovista with an anti-VEGF drug may prove beneficial in RCH patients. We plan to supply Fovista for a clinical trial conducted by the National Eye Institute, or NEI, which we expect the NEI may initiate in 2016, subject to our reaching agreement with NEI with respect to the trial. VHL is rare, and we estimate that there are approximately 5,000 people with the disease in the United States. &#149; Proliferative vitreoretinopathy, or PVR, is a complication that occurs in approximately 5% to 10% of cases of retinal detachment. It is characterized by various degrees of scarring in the retina. In its moderate to severe form, it may become recurrent with a subsequent poor visual outcome. It is usually treated by surgical intervention. However, the recurrent form is often untreatable. Local concentrations of PDGF have been shown to be elevated in patients suffering from PVR. In addition, results from animal studies indicate that PDGF may play a significant role in mediating PVR related retinal scarring by attracting other retinal cells, such as RPE cells and glial cells, which play a role in scar formation. In an animal model of PVR, Fovista strongly inhibited retinal scarring. Therefore, we believe that a combination of Fovista with surgical intervention may prove beneficial in these PVR patients. We are considering initiation in 2016 of a clinical trial involving approximately 20 patients with PVR to investigate the potential benefit of Fovista administered in combination with surgical intervention. We estimate that there are approximately 5,000 to 10,000 new cases of PVR in the United States each year. Dry AMD 

Dry AMD is a significant cause of moderate and severe loss of central vision, affecting vision in both eyes in most patients. Although dry AMD is the most common form of AMD, there are no therapies approved by the FDA or EMA to treat this condition. According to a 2011 publication from AMD Alliance International, approximately 30 million people worldwide have some form of AMD, with dry AMD accounting for 85% to 90% of these cases. A study published in Ophthalmology in 2012 analyzing age and gender variations in AMD prevalence estimates that approximately 8 million people worldwide are affected by a form of dry AMD known as GA. 

Dry AMD is typically associated with yellow-white dots or deposits under the retina, known as drusen. Unlike in wet AMD, there is an absence of pathological neovascularization in dry AMD. The presence of drusen, in the absence of pathological neovascularization, is critical for making the diagnosis of dry AMD in patients over 50 years of age. GA, a form of dry AMD, can result in progressive and chronic degeneration of the retina characterized by variable thinning and dysfunction of retinal tissue. 

The progression of visual outcomes for patients with dry AMD is variable. Most patients experience mild to moderate loss of visual function, manifesting in blurring of central vision in the affected eye, as a result of progressive degeneration of the light-sensitive photoreceptor elements in the macula. There are two settings in which visual loss from dry AMD may lead to severe vision loss: 

&#149; Geographic Atrophy. With severe and progressive macular degeneration, a readily identifiable pattern of severe degeneration called GA, forms, which consequently leads to profound and irreversible vision loss. GA is readily diagnosed by macular visualization using standard diagnostic instruments utilized by ophthalmologists. GA appears as abrupt and deep levels of macular tissue loss. It has sharp margins of characteristic degeneration compared to surrounding macular tissue. &#149; Conversion to Wet AMD. Dry AMD progresses to the wet form of the disease in approximately 10% - 15% of patients, leading to more rapid and further visual loss. The Complement Cascade 

The complement cascade consists of a series of proteins involved in the defense of a host body against infectious agents, or pathogens, and other foreign proteins. The complement cascade modulates a variety of immune and inflammatory responses to these pathogens and foreign proteins. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act beneficially to protect the host body by removing the pathogens and foreign proteins, together with other cellular debris. The complement system is generally tightly regulated, achieving the proper balance of activation and inhibition depending on the host body's requirements. Poorly regulated or aberrant activation of the complement cascade, without a balanced or proportional inhibition of complement proteins, may result in the formation of inflammation-inducing proteins and molecules. These inflammation-inducing byproducts of the complement cascade have the potential to inflict damage to normal tissue known as immune or complement mediated damage. 

Though the complement cascade can be activated through different pathways, these pathways eventually converge with the generation of an enzyme known as C3 convertase. C3 convertase cleaves, or separates, to form a protein called C3, which itself cleaves to from a molecule known as C3b. C3b is an important element of the body's immune response, as it binds to pathogens and makes them susceptible to destruction by white blood cells. Subsequent downstream reactions continue after the formation of C3b, with the eventual cleavage of another complement pathway protein known as C5. The cleavage of C5 results in the formation of other molecules known as terminal fragments, which are part of the terminal events of the complement pathway. One terminal fragment, known as C5a, is a potent mediator of inflammation and induces the release of VEGF from affected cells. The other terminal event is the generation of the membrane-attack complex, or MAC. The cellular response to the formation of MAC on affected cells can result in cell damage, cell death and the release of various angiogenic mediators, such as PDGF. 

Complement-Mediated Pathology of AMD 

Multiple published studies have implicated local inflammation resulting from poorly regulated or aberrant activation of the complement cascade in the development of both the dry and wet forms of AMD. For example, in third-party preclinical studies, analysis of both human and primate retinal 

drusen deposits, which are the hallmark of dry AMD, have been found to contain components of complement proteins. In addition, young patients, between the ages of 25 and 35, diagnosed with a kidney disease known as membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis have been observed to have developed retinal drusen deposits. The retinal drusen deposits are structurally and compositionally similar to those found in dry AMD patients. Complement activation is associated with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis and may explain drusen formation in these patients, which would be otherwise unexpected in healthy subjects of a similar young age. 

Inflammation is mediated by the presence of white blood cells. In third-party preclinical studies, choroidal neovascularization in animal subjects has been inhibited by the depletion of a specific white blood cell type known as monocytes. Similar effects on choroidal neovascularization have also been observed through the inhibition of other factors involved in inflammation. Furthermore, in the same preclinical retinal model, pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of C5a and MAC have inhibited neovascularization, suggesting that the inflammation responsible for choroidal neovascularization is complement mediated. In 2005, multiple studies published in the journal Science linked variations in the genetic sequence coding for specific complement regulatory proteins with a higher risk of developing both the dry and wet forms of AMD. 

We believe one or more unidentified triggering events may lead to aberrant activation of the complement system in the macular region of AMD patients. Complement mediated inflammation in the macular tissue may result in the accumulation of drusen, damage to retina cells and the release of angiogenic mediators, potentially resulting in the development of the dry and wet forms of AMD. Furthermore, data from multiple recently-published studies of complement mediated inflammation in human subjects who have developed wet AMD continues to support this strategy. 

Zimura 

We are developing our product candidate Zimura for the treatment of dry AMD and wet AMD. Zimura is designed to target and inhibit the complement protein C5. We believe Zimura binds to and inhibits C5 from cleaving into later stage proteins, or terminal fragments. By inhibiting the formation of complement system terminal fragments, Zimura may decrease complement mediated inflammation and the release of angiogenic mediators such as VEGF and/or PDGF, thereby providing the rationale as a potential therapy for patients with dry AMD and wet AMD. Zimura is a chemically synthesized, pegylated aptamer. Zimura is administered by intravitreal injection. 

Clinical Development of Zimura 

We have completed one Phase 1/2a clinical trial of Zimura monotherapy for the treatment of dry AMD and one Phase 1/2a clinical trial of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a Phase 2/3 clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Zimura administered for the treatment of GA and an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate Zimura's potential role when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. We believe that, in wet AMD patients, Zimura may assist in inhibiting complement mediated inflammation which may improve visual outcomes, when administered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug. 

Completed Phase 1/2a Clinical Trial of Zimura for Dry AMD 

In 2011, we completed a multicenter, uncontrolled, open label Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of Zimura administered as a monotherapy in patients with GA. We enrolled 47 patients in this trial. We randomly assigned patients in this trial to one of two dose groups. Patients received a total of five intravitreal injections of either 0.3 mg or 1.0 mg of Zimura over a 36-week treatment period. Patients received an intravitreal injection of Zimura at day 0, week 4, week 8, 

week 24 and week 36 of the trial, with a final follow-up visit at week 48. Zimura was generally well-tolerated in this trial. We did not observe any evidence of drug related adverse events. Adverse events were primarily ocular adverse events in the study eye which were related to the injection procedure. 

In addition, we performed assessments of visual acuity to detect any potential decrease in vision associated with intravitreal injections, the administered drug or natural progression of the disease if left untreated. We did not identify any drug related safety issues through measurements of visual acuity. 

Our Phase 1/2a clinical trial was an uncontrolled study with a small sample size, not powered to detect a difference between Zimura dose groups with statistical significance. The primary purpose of the study was to assess safety and tolerability. However, we observed a trend, in favor of the higher of two dose groups, of a relative reduction in the mean growth of the GA lesion area, as measured by an independent reading center, at 24 weeks. The mean growth from baseline in the GA lesion area during the first 24 weeks of the trial, when the injections were administered more regularly, was 1.00 mm 2 for the 24 patients receiving the 0.3 mg dose and 0.78 mm 2 for the 23 patients receiving the 1.0 mg dose. When the injections were administered on a reduced dosing schedule during the subsequent 24 weeks, this relative trend in reduced growth in GA lesion area was no longer present. We believe this apparent trend in reduction of growth in GA lesion area when Zimura was dosed more frequently, together with the relative loss of the benefit when Zimura was dosed less frequently, may suggest a possible drug effect. In addition, data from a third party targeting the complement pathway also exhibited a trend in reduction of GA growth with a pronounced effect in patients with a specific biomarker. Given the safety profile of Zimura to date when administered by intravitreal injection, what we believe is a strong preclinical rationale, the trend in the potential benefit that we observed in our Phase 1/2a clinical trial and results observed in studies from the third party targeting the complement pathway, we are planning to move forward with a Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating Zimura in the treatment of dry AMD. 

Phase 2/3 Clinical Trial of Zimura in Dry AMD 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated a randomized, double-masked, controlled Phase 2/3 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Zimura monotherapy in patients with GA. We plan to enroll approximately 300 patients in the initial stage of the trial. During this stage, patients will be randomized into three groups, and will receive monthly injections of 1.0 mg of Zimura per eye, monthly injections of 2.0 mg of Zimura per eye or monthly sham injections as the control arm. At month 18, we plan to conduct an interim analysis to assess the safety and efficacy of Zimura compared to sham. Upon review of this interim analysis, a determination will be made whether to continue the trial and whether to expand the trial by enrolling additional patients. Patients in the trial will receive monthly injections for 24 months. 

Completed Phase 1/2a Clinical Trial of Zimura for Wet AMD 

In 2009, we completed a multicenter, ascending dose and parallel group open label Phase 1/2a clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. We enrolled 60 patients in this trial. Zimura was generally well tolerated in this trial when tested in combination with Lucentis. None of the patients experienced any dose limiting toxicities at any of the dose levels tested. We observed only a single adverse event assessed by the investigators to be related to Zimura, mild subcapsular cataract in one patient in the group treated with 2.0 mg of Zimura. Adverse events were primarily ocular adverse events in the study eye which were related to the injection procedure. One patient withdrew from the trial as a result of a serious adverse event of bacteremia unrelated to study drug or injection procedure, which resulted in a subsequent fatality. Systemic adverse events in this trial were not frequently reported. No systemic adverse events were assessed as drug related. 

In addition, we performed assessments of visual acuity primarily as safety assessments to detect any decrease in vision associated with the intravitreal drug combination or the injection procedure. We did not identify any safety issues through measurements of visual acuity. In a subgroup of 43 patients who had not previously been treated with anti-VEGF drugs and who received six injections at doses of 0.3 mg, 1.0 mg or 2.0 mg of Zimura administered in combination with Lucentis, we observed a mean increase in visual acuity from baseline at all time points based on the number of ETDRS letters the patient can read. In a follow-up visit at week 24 of the trial, we noted improvements in mean visual acuity from baseline as follows: 13.6 letters for the 13 patients receiving the 0.3 mg dose, 11.7 letters for the 15 patients receiving the 1.0 mg dose and 15.3 letters for the 15 patients receiving the 2.0 mg dose. In this subgroup, 22 patients (51%) gained at least 15 letters, consisting of six patients (46%) in the 0.3 mg dose group, seven patients (47%) in the 1.0 mg dose group and nine patients (60%) in the 2.0 mg dose group. 

Phase 2 Clinical Programs for Zimura for Wet AMD 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we initiated an open-label Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate Zimura's potential role when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs (Lucentis, Eylea or Avastin) for the treatment of wet AMD. 

In late 2014, we initiated a very small, open-label, Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate Zimura's potential role when administered in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of PCV, a specific type of wet AMD, in patients who do not respond adequately to treatment with anti-VEGF monotherapy or for whom anti-VEGF monotherapy has failed, who we refer to as anti-VEGF resistant. Our initial, preliminary analysis of the data from this trial has not revealed any safety concerns related to Zimura. 

Option Agreement for Tivozanib 

In addition to expanding our Fovista and Zimura development programs, we are committed to exploring opportunities to address the unmet needs in AMD. Our strategy is to be scientifically driven, evaluate multiple options with limited up-front investment and obtain early proof-of-concept validation prior to a larger commitment of our capital. In accordance with this strategy, in November 2014, we entered into an exclusive research and option agreement with AVEO Pharmaceuticals to license tivozanib, a small molecule VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the treatment of non-oncologic conditions of the eye. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid AVEO an upfront fee of $0.5 million for exclusive rights to investigate tivozanib's potency and potential as an ocular formulation. We are solely responsible for the ocular formulation and development of this compound, and we are focusing on a potential treatment for the maintenance phase of wet AMD therapy. 

Under the agreement, upon completion of our initial analysis, if we elect to continue the development of an ocular formulation of tivozanib, we will pay additional fees based upon our submission of an Investigational New Drug application and upon the demonstration of proof of concept in humans. One or both of these milestones may be triggered in 2016. If we exercise our option for an exclusive worldwide license (excluding Asia) for the compound for ocular indications, we will pay a license fee, and development, regulatory and sales-based milestones, if achieved, as well royalties on commercial sales. We may exercise the option until late 2017. 

Sales and Marketing 

As our Phase 3 trials for Fovista are on track with initial, top-line data expected during the fourth quarter of 2016, we have begun to build our commercial capabilities to support the pre-launch activities for a potential U.S. launch. We believe we can access the U.S. market through a focused commercial organization, including a specialty sales force to target an estimated 2,000 retinal specialists who we 

believe represent the majority of the market potential in the United States. Novartis is responsible for commercializing Fovista outside of the United States. We and Novartis are closely collaborating to ensure that a potential global brand launch is coordinated across the worldwide retinal specialist community. We recently hired a Chief Commercial Officer with extensive ophthalmic and specialty pharmaceutical market launch experience, and we are building an initial team that includes professionals with market access expertise. If Zimura receives marketing approval, we also plan to commercialize Zimura in the United States with our own focused, specialty sales force. 

We believe that retinal specialists in the United States, who perform most of the medical procedures involving diseases of the back of the eye, are sufficiently concentrated that we will be able to effectively promote Fovista and Zimura to these specialists with a specialty sales and marketing group of approximately 100 persons. Intravitreal injection is a specialized procedure. In the vast majority of cases in the United States, retinal specialists perform intravitreal injections. Based on our examination of the membership lists of organizations for retinal specialists, we estimate that there are approximately 2,000 retinal specialists in the United States. 

We have entered into a commercialization agreement with Novartis for Fovista pursuant to which we have granted to Novartis commercialization rights for Fovista outside of the United States in return for an upfront fee, milestones and royalties. See "Acquisition, License and Collaboration Agreements&#151;Licensing and Commercialization Agreement with Novartis Pharma AG." We expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with one or more third parties to commercialize Zimura in markets outside the United States. 

Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of our product candidates. Although we intend to rely upon third-party contract manufacturers to produce our products, we have recruited personnel with experience to manage the third-party contract manufacturers producing Fovista, Zimura and other products that we may develop in the future. 

The process for manufacturing Fovista and Zimura consists of chemical synthesis, purification, pegylation, further purification and finally freeze drying to form a powder, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API. Each of these steps involves a relatively common chemical engineering process. The chemical synthesis is similar to peptide manufacturing. In a separate process that follows the chemical synthesis, API for each of Fovista and Zimura is dissolved in a liquid solution that includes certain chemical buffers and then is placed into vials from which the intravitreal injection solution is drawn. This process of rendering the API into a liquid solution and placing it into vials is referred to as fill-finish services. 

We currently engage a single third-party manufacturer, Agilent Technologies, Inc., or Agilent, to provide supplies of both Fovista API and Zimura API. We have entered into clinical and commercial supply agreements with Agilent with respect to Fovista. These agreements are described below. We currently obtain Zimura API from Agilent on a purchase order basis. 

Fovista API Clinical Supply Agreement. In May 2014, we entered into a Clinical Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Agilent pursuant to which Agilent has agreed to manufacture and supply to us, and we have agreed to purchase from Agilent, a specified percentage of our clinical requirements in specified jurisdictions of Fovista API. The clinical supply agreement has an initial five year term, which is subject to automatic renewal absent termination by either party in accordance with the terms of the clinical supply agreement. We may terminate the clinical supply agreement or any statement of work thereunder upon 12 months prior written notice to Agilent and Agilent may terminate the clinical supply agreement if we do not, over a specified period, purchase and take delivery from Agilent of a specified minimum quantity of API for Fovista. Each party also has the right to terminate the clinical 

supply agreement for other customary reasons such as material breach and bankruptcy. The clinical supply agreement contains provisions relating to compliance by Agilent with current Good Manufacturing Practices, cooperation by Agilent in connection with marketing applications for Fovista, indemnification, confidentiality, dispute resolution and other customary matters for an agreement of this kind. 

Fovista API Commercial Supply Agreement. In September 2015, we entered into a Commercial Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Agilent, pursuant to which Agilent has agreed to manufacture and supply to us, and we have agreed to purchase from Agilent, a specified percentage of our commercial requirements in specified jurisdictions of Fovista API. The commercial supply agreement has an initial term that runs for seven years from the date of our first commercial sale of Fovista, and which is subject to one two-year automatic renewal period, absent termination by either party in accordance with the terms of the commercial supply agreement. The commercial supply agreement provides for pricing for Fovista API structured on a tiered basis, with the price reduced as the volume of Fovista API ordered increases. We may cancel any purchase order under the commercial supply agreement at any time, subject to the payment of specified cancellation fees. We may terminate the commercial supply agreement in the event that we cannot commercialize Fovista due to regulatory or other medical, scientific or legal reasons. Agilent may terminate the commercial supply agreement in the event that we do not, over a specified period, purchase and take delivery from Agilent of a specified minimum quantity of Fovista API. Each party also has the right to terminate the commercial supply agreement for other customary reasons such as material breach and bankruptcy. The commercial supply agreement contains provisions relating to compliance by Agilent with current Good Manufacturing Practices, cooperation by Agilent in connection with marketing applications for Fovista, indemnification, confidentiality, dispute resolution and other customary matters for an agreement of this kind. 

Other Manufacturing Arrangements. We also engage a different, single third-party manufacturer to provide fill-finish services for both Fovista and Zimura. We obtain these services on a purchase order basis. Under a license, manufacturing and supply agreement with Nektar Therapeutics, or Nektar, described in more detail below under "&#151;Acquisition, License and Collaboration Agreements&#151;Nektar Therapeutics Manufacturing and Supply Agreement," we must purchase our entire clinical and commercial requirements for the polyethylene glycol, or PEG, reagent, which we use to make Fovista, exclusively from Nektar at an agreed price, which is subject to annual adjustment in accordance with changes in the producer price index, except under specified circumstances relating to Nektar's failure to supply, in which event Nektar has agreed to enable a third-party manufacturer to supply us. Under this agreement, Nektar has agreed to supply our entire clinical and commercial requirements for this PEG reagent, subject to certain forecasting and ordering requirements and other limitations, and has agreed to supply this PEG reagent only to us for the purpose of manufacturing a product produced by linking the active ingredient in Fovista to this PEG reagent by means of pegylation. The PEG reagent supplied by Nektar is proprietary to Nektar. We obtain a different PEG reagent used to make Zimura from a different third-party manufacturer on a purchase order basis. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technologies, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and specialty pharmaceutical and generic or biosimilar drug companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 

The key competitive factors affecting the success of each of Fovista and Zimura, if approved, are likely to be the respective drug's efficacy, safety, method of administration, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. The method of administration of Fovista and Zimura, intravitreal injection, is commonly used to administer ophthalmic drugs for the treatment of severe disease and is generally accepted by patients facing the prospect of severe visual loss or blindness. However, a therapy that offers a less invasive method of administration might have a competitive advantage over one administered by intravitreal injection, depending on the relative safety of the other method of administration. 

There are a variety of therapies used for the treatment of wet AMD, principally Avastin, Lucentis and Eylea, as well as conbercept in China. These anti-VEGF drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors as the standard of care for the treatment of wet AMD. Physicians, patients and third-party payors may not accept the addition of Fovista or Zimura to their current treatment regimens for a variety of potential reasons, including: 

&#149; if they do not wish to incur the additional cost of Fovista or Zimura; &#149; if they perceive the addition of Fovista or Zimura to be of limited benefit to patients; or &#149; in the case of wet AMD if they wish to treat with anti-VEGF drugs as monotherapy first and add Fovista or Zimura only if and when resistance to continued anti-VEGF monotherapy limits further enhancement of visual outcome with anti-VEGF monotherapy. We are developing Fovista and Zimura for administration in combination with anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of wet AMD. Accordingly, we do not believe Fovista or Zimura would be directly competitive with these therapies. However, a standalone therapy for wet AMD with demonstrated improved efficacy over currently marketed therapies in this indication with a favorable safety profile and any of the following characteristics might pose a significant competitive threat to Fovista: 

&#149; a mechanism of action that does not involve VEGF; &#149; a duration of action that obviates the need for frequent intravitreal injection; or &#149; an effect on wet AMD that makes combination therapy with Fovista or Zimura unnecessary. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, a single drug, or a co-formulated injection, that combines an anti-PDGF drug and an anti-VEGF drug would be more convenient than administering an intravitreal injection of each of Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug. Such greater convenience might make such a drug or co-formulated injection more attractive to physicians and patients. An anti-VEGF gene therapy product might substantially reduce the number and frequency of intravitreal injections when treating wet AMD and make monthly intravitreal injections of Fovista unattractive to physicians and patients. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. In addition, 

our ability to compete may be affected because in many cases insurers or other third-party payors seek to encourage the use of generic products. 

There are a number of products in preclinical research and clinical development by third parties to treat wet AMD. We expect that product candidates currently in clinical or preclinical development that directly or indirectly inhibit PDGF, the molecule that Fovista inhibits, or that inhibit the function of other molecules and which could obviate the use of an anti-PDGF agent such as Fovista may represent significant competition if approved. These product candidates may provide better efficacy, a better safety profile and/or convenience and other benefits that are not provided by our product candidates or currently marketed therapies. Based on publicly available information, we have identified, among others, the following ophthalmic product candidates in clinical and preclinical development that, like Fovista, are based on PDGF inhibition: 

&#149; Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Bayer HealthCare have an anti-PDGF product candidate that is being co-formulated with Eylea for administration in a single intravitreal injection that entered clinical development in February 2014 and entered Phase 2 clinical trials in the second quarter of 2015. &#149; Ohr Pharmaceutical is developing an eye drop formulation of squalamine for wet AMD which has completed a Phase 2 clinical study and has announced its intention to begin a Phase 3 clinical study. &#149; Santen has a dual inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF in Phase 1/2a clinical development. &#149; Tyrogenex has an orally-administered dual inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF that has completed a Phase 1 trial and commenced a Phase 2 study in the first quarter of 2015. &#149; Allergan has an anti-PDGF, anti-VEGF DARPin product candidate in preclinical development that is being co-formulated for administration in a single intravitreal injection. &#149; Neurotech has a PDGF antagonist that is in preclinical development that is designed as an encapsulated cell technology implant, potentially delivered in combination with an anti-VEGF drug. &#149; Somalogic has an anti-PDGF product candidate in preclinical development. Because there are a variety of means to block the activity and signaling of PDGF, our patents and other proprietary protections for Fovista may not prevent development or commercialization of product candidates that are different from Fovista. 

Moreover, several companies, including Novartis, Allergan, Neurotech, Genentech, Regeneron, Ophthea, Quark Pharmaceuticals, PanOptica and others, have treatments targeting other molecular targets in various phases of clinical development for the treatment of wet AMD. RegenexBio and other companies are investigating potential gene therapy treatments for the treatment of wet AMD. Additionally, the London Project to Cure Blindness, which is a partnership involving the University College London and Pfizer, recently announced a successful pilot procedure for the transplant of retinal pigment epithelium cells derived from stem cells for the treatment of wet AMD and the commencement of a broader clinical trial. 

In addition, other companies are undertaking efforts to develop technologies to allow for a less frequent dosing schedule for anti-VEGF drugs that are currently in use. If such technologies are successfully developed and approved for use, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials of Fovista using a less frequent dosing schedule than the dosing schedule we are currently using in our ongoing Phase 3 clinical program. Any such trials may not be successful. 

There are a number of products in preclinical research and clinical development by third parties to treat dry AMD. In general, these product candidates can be categorized based on their proposed mechanisms of action. The mechanisms of action for these product candidates include inflammation suppression, such as complement system inhibitors and corticosteroids, visual cycle modulators, antioxidants and neuroprotectants, cell and gene therapies and vascular enhancers. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified, among others, the following ophthalmic product candidates in clinical development that, like Zimura, are based on complement system inhibition: 

&#149; Genentech has a humanized Fab fragment administered by intravitreal injection that targets complement factor D, for which it completed a Phase 2 clinical trial and commenced Phase 3 trials. &#149; Novartis and MorphoSys have a fully human antibody targeting complement factor C5, which is in Phase 2 clinical development and for which data were recently presented. &#149; Apellis has a product candidate administered by intravitreal injection that inhibits complement factor C3, which is in Phase 2 clinical development. &#149; Alexion Pharmaceuticals has an intravenously administered product candidate targeting complement factor C5 approved for unrelated conditions, which completed a Phase 2 clinical trial for dry AMD in 2014. Moreover, we have identified, among others, the following additional ophthalmic product candidates that are in the later stages of clinical development for the treatment of dry AMD: 

&#149; Alimera Sciences has a corticosteroid intravitreal implant, Iluvien, which was recently approved for diabetic macular edema and which is being tested as a possible treatment for dry AMD. &#149; Acucela has an orally bioavailable selective visual cycle modulator, which is in a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial. &#149; Colby Pharmaceuticals has an ocular esterase cleavable prodrug of tempol hydroxylamine, which is in a Phase 2 clinical trial. &#149; Allergan has an a 2-adrenergic receptor agonist, which has completed a Phase 2 clinical trial. &#149; Vision Medicines has a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds amyloid- b (A b ), which is in a Phase 2 clinical trial. &#149; GlaxoSmithKline has an anti-amyloid B antibody, which is in a Phase 2 clinical trial. &#149; MacuClear has a topical systemic antihypertensive agent administered as an eye drop, which is in a Phase 2/3 clinical trial. Several additional companies, including Ocata Therapeutics, CHA Biotech, Cell Cure Neurosciences and Catalyst Biosciences, have announced dry AMD programs. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our product candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our proprietary position, among other methods and where patent protection is available, by filing U.S. and certain foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business, and by maintaining our issued patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

Our patent portfolio includes the following: 

&#149; patents and patent applications owned by Ophthotech: &#149; patents covering the treatment of wet AMD with a combination of Fovista and an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof (such as Avastin or Lucentis), or the use of Fovista in the manufacture of a medicine for the treatment of wet AMD when administered with an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof, which have issued in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in 2024; and patent applications covering the treatment of wet AMD with a combination of Fovista and an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof or the use of Fovista in the manufacture of a medicine for the treatment of wet AMD when administered with an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof, which are pending in certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2024; &#149; patent applications covering the treatment of wet AMD with a combination of Fovista and Eylea, or the use of Fovista in the manufacture of a medicine for the treatment of wet AMD when administered with Eylea, which are pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2030; &#149; patents covering co-formulations of Fovista and an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof, which have issued in the United States, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in the United States in 2025 and elsewhere in 2024; and patent applications covering co-formulations of Fovista and an anti-VEGF-A antibody or binding fragment thereof, which are pending in the European Union and certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2024; &#149; patents covering methods for treating AMD with a combination of Fovista and Macugen, which have issued in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in 2024; and patent applications covering methods for treating AMD with a combination of Fovista and Macugen, which are pending in certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2024; &#149; patent applications covering co-formulations and other proprietary technology relating to Fovista, which are pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2033; &#149; patent applications covering formulations and dosing regimens and other proprietary technology relating to Fovista, which are pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2034; &#149; patent applications covering co-formulations and other proprietary technology relating to Zimura, which are pending in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2034; and &#149; patent applications covering dosing regimens and methods for treating AMD and other proprietary technology relating to Fovista, which are pending in the United States and under the Patent Cooperation Treaty system, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2035; and &#149; patents and patent applications in-licensed from Archemix Corp., or Archemix: &#149; composition-of-matter patents covering Fovista, which have issued in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in the United States in 2017 and elsewhere in 2018; 54 

&#149; composition-of-matter patents covering Zimura, which have issued in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in Japan in 2026 and elsewhere in 2025; and composition-of-matter patent applications covering Zimura, which are pending in certain other jurisdictions, and which, if granted, are expected to expire in 2025; and &#149; patents covering the treatment of certain complement mediated disorders with Zimura, Zimura for use in a method of treating certain complement mediated disorders or a composition comprising Zimura for treating certain complement mediated disorders, which have issued in the United States, the European Union, Japan and certain other jurisdictions, and which are expected to expire in Japan and the United States in 2026 and elsewhere in 2025. The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are granted. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is generally 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date of a non-provisional patent application in the applicable country. In the United States, a patent's term may, in certain cases, be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over a commonly owned patent or a patent naming a common inventor and having an earlier expiration date. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration date of a U.S. patent as partial compensation for the length of time the drug is under regulatory review while the patent is in force. A patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval, only one patent applicable to each regulatory review period may be extended and only those claims covering the approved drug, a method for using it or a method for manufacturing it may be extended. 

Similar provisions are available in the European Union and certain other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our product candidates, including Fovista, receive approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on issued patents covering those products, depending upon the length of the clinical trials for each drug and other factors. The expiration dates referred to above are without regard to potential patent term extension or other market exclusivity that may be available to us. 

We may rely, in some circumstances, upon trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. 

Acquisition, License and Collaboration Agreements 

OSI (Eyetech) Divestiture Agreement 

In July 2007, we entered into a divestiture agreement with OSI (Eyetech), Inc., or Eyetech, which agreement is now held by OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC, or OSI Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Astellas US LLC, under which we acquired specified technology, rights, and other assets owned or controlled by Eyetech relating to particular anti-PDGF aptamers, including Fovista, and assumed Eyetech's liabilities and obligations under specified agreements between Eyetech and Archemix, and between Eyetech and Nektar. These agreements with Archemix and Nektar, as subsequently amended, are described in more detail below. 

We have agreed that we will not, alone or with any other party, research, develop or commercialize any compound, other than anti-PDGF products covered by the divestiture agreement, which solely and specifically binds to PDGF for its mode of action. 

Financial Terms 

In connection with the agreement, we paid Eyetech a $4.0 million upfront payment and issued Eyetech 3,000,000 shares of our junior series A preferred stock. We are obligated to pay OSI Pharmaceuticals additional one-time payments of $12.0 million in the aggregate upon marketing approval in the United States and the European Union, of a covered anti-PDGF product. We are obligated to pay OSI Pharmaceuticals a royalty at a low single-digit percentage of net sales of any covered anti-PDGF product we successfully commercialize. Our obligation to pay such royalties will expire on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis on the later of 10 years after the first commercial sale of each product in each country or the expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of specified patents that cover the composition, manufacture or use of each product in each country. 

Diligence Obligations 

We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct the development and manufacture of a covered anti-PDGF product so as to obtain marketing approval and, thereafter, to commercialize a covered anti-PDGF product in the United States and in the European Union. 

Term and Termination 

The agreement, unless terminated earlier by us or by OSI Pharmaceuticals, will remain in effect until we no longer have any financial obligations to OSI Pharmaceuticals, after which the rights granted to us will become perpetual and fully paid-up. The agreement provides that either party may terminate the agreement in the event of the other party's insolvency, bankruptcy or comparable proceedings, or if the other party materially breaches the agreement and does not cure such breach during a specified cure period. 

If we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to meet our specified diligence obligations and fail to take specified steps after receiving written notice thereof from OSI Pharmaceuticals, then OSI Pharmaceuticals may terminate the agreement as to such countries with respect to which such failure has occurred, and upon such termination we will be obligated to grant, assign and transfer to OSI Pharmaceuticals specified rights and licenses related to our anti-PDGF aptamer technology and other related assets, and if we are manufacturing such anti-PDGF products at the time of such termination, may be obligated to provide transitional supply to OSI Pharmaceuticals of covered anti-PDGF products, for such countries. 

Archemix License Agreements 

In September 2011, we entered into two amended and restated exclusive license agreements with Archemix, one relating to anti-PDGF aptamers, which we refer to as the PDGF agreement, and the other relating to anti-C5 aptamers, which we refer to as the C5 agreement. The PDGF agreement superseded a 2004 agreement between Eyetech and Archemix that we assumed under the divestiture agreement described above. The C5 agreement superseded a July 2007 agreement between us and Archemix. Under these amended and restated agreements, we hold exclusive worldwide licenses (subject to certain pre-existing rights) under specified patents and technology owned or controlled by Archemix to develop, make, use, sell, offer for sale, distribute for sale, import and export pharmaceutical products comprised of or derived from any anti-PDGF aptamer or anti-C5 aptamer for the prevention, treatment, cure or control of human indications, diseases, disorders or conditions of the eye, adnexa of the eye, orbit and optic nerve, other than certain expressly excluded applications. 

The licenses we received under these agreements include sublicenses to us of rights to specified technology, which we refer to as the SELEX technology, licensed by University License Equity Holdings, Inc., or ULEHI, to Gilead Sciences, Inc., or Gilead, and sublicensed by Gilead to Archemix, as well as sublicenses to us of rights to certain other technology licensed by Gilead to Archemix, including the composition-of-matter patents relating to Fovista. Our agreements with Archemix contemplate that our rights to these sublicensed technologies will survive termination of the license from ULEHI to Gilead as long as we are not in breach of the C5 agreement or PDGF agreement, as applicable, and will survive termination of the sublicense from Gilead to Archemix as long as such termination did not arise from our action or inaction, provided in each case that we agree to be bound to ULEHI or Gilead, as applicable, under the terms of our agreements with Archemix. However, if Archemix, its affiliates and all of Archemix's assignees and sublicensees, including us, cease to exercise reasonable efforts to develop commercial applications of products and services using the SELEX technology, then Archemix's rights to the SELEX technology may revert to Gilead or ULEHI, and we would lose our rights to the SELEX technology. 

Financial Terms 

In connection with these agreements, as amended, we paid Archemix aggregate upfront licensing fees of $1.0 million and issued to Archemix an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of our series A-1 preferred stock and 500,000 shares of our series B-1 preferred stock. We have also paid Archemix an aggregate of $6.75 million in fees based on our achievement of specified clinical milestone events under these agreements. 

Under the PDGF agreement, we are also obligated to make additional future payments to Archemix of up to an aggregate of $14.0 million if we achieve specified clinical and regulatory milestones with respect to Fovista, and up to an aggregate of $3.0 million if we achieve specified commercial milestones with respect to Fovista. Under the PDGF agreement, we also are obligated to make additional payments to Archemix of up to an aggregate of approximately $18.8 million if we achieve specified clinical and regulatory milestones with respect to each other anti-PDGF aptamer product that we may develop under the agreement, and up to an aggregate of $3.0 million if we achieve specified commercial milestones with respect to such other anti-PDGF aptamer product. 

Under the C5 agreement, for each anti-C5 aptamer product that we may develop under the agreement, including Zimura, we are obligated to make additional payments to Archemix of up to an aggregate of $57.5 million if we achieve specified development, clinical and regulatory milestones, with $24.5 million of such payments relating to second and third indications, and, as to all anti-C5 products under the agreement collectively, up to an aggregate of $22.5 million if we achieve specified commercial milestones. We are also obligated to pay Archemix a double-digit percentage of specified non-royalty payments we may receive from any sublicensee of our rights under the C5 agreement. 

No royalties are payable to Archemix under either of the PDGF agreement or the C5 agreement. 

Diligence Obligations 

We are required to exercise commercially reasonable efforts in developing and commercializing at least one anti-PDGF aptamer product and at least one anti-C5 aptamer product and in undertaking investigations and actions required to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to market such products in the United States, the European Union, and Japan, and in such other markets where we determine that it is commercially reasonable to do so. 

Term and Termination 

Unless earlier terminated, the PDGF agreement will expire upon the later of 10 years after the first commercial sale in any country of the last licensed product and the expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of the licensed patents that covers a licensed product. 

Unless earlier terminated, the C5 agreement will expire upon the later of 12 years after the first commercial sale in any country of the last licensed product, the expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim of the licensed patents that covers a licensed product, and the date on which no further payments of sublicensing income are to be received by us. 

Either we or Archemix may terminate each of the agreements if the other party materially breaches the applicable agreement and the breach remains uncured for a specified period. Archemix may also terminate each of the agreements, or may convert our exclusive licenses under the applicable agreement to non-exclusive licenses, if we challenge or assist a third party in challenging the validity or enforceability of any of the patents licensed under the applicable agreement. We may terminate each of the agreements at any time and for any or no reason effective at the end of a specified period following our written notice to Archemix of termination. 

Nektar Therapeutics Manufacturing and Supply Agreement 

In April 2012, February 2015 and April 2015, we amended a 2006 license, manufacturing and supply agreement between Eyetech and Nektar that we assumed under the Eyetech divestiture agreement described above. Under the agreement, as amended, Nektar has granted us the following licenses: 

&#149; an exclusive, worldwide license under specified patent rights and know-how owned or controlled by Nektar to make, have made, develop, use, import, offer for sale and sell particular products that are produced by linking the API in Fovista to a specified polyethylene glycol, or PEG, reagent by means of pegylation; and &#149; non-exclusive sublicenses of certain other patent rights controlled by Nektar. Financial Terms 

We have paid approximately $21.5 million and Eyetech previously paid approximately $0.3 million, to Nektar under the agreement. We are also obligated to pay Nektar additional specified amounts in relation to certain milestone events. Such specified milestone amounts that may be payable by us in the future include an aggregate of $6.5 million payable upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones. In addition, a payment of $3.0 million will be triggered upon the achievement of a specified commercial sale milestone with respect to Fovista. 

If we grant to any third-party commercialization rights to a licensed product under the agreement, we agreed to pay Nektar a low double-digit percentage of any upfront payment we receive from such third party, less certain milestone amounts we have paid to Nektar. In June 2014, we paid Nektar $19.8 million in connection with our entry into the Novartis Agreement. 

We are also obligated to pay Nektar tiered royalties at low to mid single-digit percentages of net sales of any licensed product we successfully commercialize, with the royalty percentage determined by our level of licensed product sales, the extent of patent coverage for the licensed product and whether we have granted a third party commercialization rights to the licensed product. Our obligation to pay such royalties will expire on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis on the later of 10 years after first commercial sales of such licensed product in such country, and the expiration of the last-to-expire valid claim in the licensed patents that cover such licensed product in such country. 

Exclusive Supply 

Under the agreement, we must provide binding forecasts of requirements for the PEG reagent to Nektar and purchase our entire requirements for the PEG reagent, which we currently use to formulate Fovista, exclusively from Nektar at agreed prices based upon volume, which are subject to annual adjustment in accordance with changes in the producer price index, except under specified 

circumstances relating to Nektar's failure to supply, in which event Nektar has agreed to enable a third-party manufacturer to supply us. 

Under the agreement, Nektar has agreed to supply our entire clinical and commercial requirements for this PEG reagent, subject to certain forecasting and ordering requirements and certain other limitations, and has agreed to supply this PEG reagent only to us for the purpose of manufacturing a product produced by linking the API in Fovista to this PEG reagent by means of pegylation. 

Diligence Obligations 

Under the terms of the agreement, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve the first commercial sale of Fovista in the United States or one of a specified group of other countries by June 30, 2018, which date Nektar and we may agree in good faith to extend in specified circumstances, Nektar may either terminate our license or convert our license for such country to a non-exclusive license. In addition, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop Fovista and file and seek approval of NDAs on a schedule permitting us to make first commercial sales of Fovista in specified countries by June 30, 2019, do not make such first commercial sales of Fovista by such date, or thereafter fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to continue to commercialize and market Fovista in such countries, we will be in material breach of the agreement. 

Term and Termination 

The agreement, unless earlier terminated by us or Nektar, will expire upon the expiration of our obligation to pay royalties to Nektar on net sales of licensed products. We and Nektar each may terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches the agreement and does not cure such breach within a specified cure period. We may terminate the agreement at any time, without cause, effective at the end of a specified period following our written notice to Nektar of termination, in which event we will be obligated to pay Nektar specified termination fees and reimburse Nektar for certain costs. 

If we challenge the validity or enforceability of any Nektar licensed patent right, we must pay for the defense of such challenge if such challenge is not successful and our licenses under certain licensed patent rights will terminate. 

Licensing and Commercialization Agreement with Novartis Pharma AG 

In May 2014, we entered into a licensing and commercialization agreement with Novartis Pharma AG, which we refer to as the Novartis Agreement. Under the Novartis Agreement, we granted Novartis exclusive rights under specified patent rights, know-how and trademarks controlled by us to manufacture, from bulk API supplied by us, standalone Fovista products and products combining Fovista with an anti-VEGF drug to which Novartis has rights in a co-formulated product, for the treatment, prevention, cure or control of any human disease, disorder or condition of the eye, and to develop and commercialize those licensed products in all countries outside of the United States, which we refer to as the Novartis Territory. We have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to complete our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista and Novartis has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop a standalone Fovista product and a co-formulated product containing Fovista and an anti-VEGF drug to which Novartis has rights, as well as a pre-filled syringe presentation of such products and to use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to obtaining marketing approval, to commercialize licensed products in the Novartis Territory in accordance with agreed development and marketing plans. Novartis has also granted us options, subject to specified limitations, and to the extent such rights are controlled by Novartis, to obtain exclusive rights from Novartis to develop and commercialize in the United States the co-formulated and pre-filled syringe products developed by Novartis. We and Novartis have each granted the other options, subject to 

specified limitations, to obtain access to study data from certain clinical trials of licensed products that we or Novartis may conduct, including for use by the other in regulatory filings in its territory. We have agreed to exclusively supply Novartis, and Novartis has agreed to exclusively purchase from us, its clinical and commercial requirements for the bulk API for Fovista for use in-licensed products in the Novartis Territory. We have agreed not to commercialize any product comprising Fovista or any other anti-PDGF product in the ophthalmic field in the Novartis Territory. 

Novartis paid us a $200.0 million upfront fee upon execution of the Novartis Agreement. Under the terms of the Novartis Agreement, Novartis is also obligated to pay us up to an aggregate of $130.0 million if we achieve specified patient enrollment-based milestones for our Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista, $50.0 million of which we achieved in September 2014 and received in October 2014 and $50 million of which we achieved in March 2015 and received in April 2015, and up to an aggregate of an additional $300.0 million upon achievement of specified regulatory milestones, including marketing approval and reimbursement approval in certain countries in the Novartis Territory. In addition, Novartis has agreed to pay us up to an aggregate of an additional $400.0 million if Novartis achieves specified sales milestones in the Novartis Territory. Novartis also is obligated to pay us royalties with respect to standalone Fovista products and combination Fovista products that Novartis successfully commercializes. We will receive royalties at a mid-thirties percentage of net sales of standalone Fovista products and a royalty of approximately equal value for sales of combination Fovista products. Such royalties are subject to customary deductions, credits, and reductions for lack of patent coverage or market exclusivity. Novartis's obligation to pay such royalties will continue on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis until Novartis's last actual commercial sale of such licensed product in such country. We will continue to be responsible for royalties we owe to third parties on sales of Fovista products. 

Novartis has agreed to pay our manufacturing costs plus a specified percentage margin for commercial supplies of the bulk API in Fovista that we supply to Novartis. If we or Novartis exercises our or its respective rights to obtain access to study data from clinical trials conducted by the other party, the party exercising the option will be obligated to pay the other party's associated past development costs and share with such other party any future associated development costs. If we exercise our option to obtain Novartis-controlled rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize any co-formulated Fovista product in the United States, we will be obligated to pay a specified percentage of Novartis's associated past development costs and share with Novartis any future associated development costs. We and Novartis will also need to negotiate and agree on financial and other terms that would apply to such rights. If we exercise our option to obtain Novartis-controlled rights to develop and commercialize a pre-filled syringe product in the United States, we will be obligated to either enter into a supply agreement with Novartis under which we will pay Novartis its manufacturing cost plus a specified percentage margin for supplies of Fovista products in pre-filled syringes that Novartis supplies to us, or obtain supplies of products in pre-filled syringes from a third party manufacturer and pay Novartis a low single-digit percentage of our net sales of such products. 

We have retained control over the design and execution of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical program for Fovista and remain responsible for funding the costs of that program, subject to Novartis's responsibility to provide Lucentis, an anti-VEGF drug to which Novartis has rights in the Novartis Territory, for use in the Phase 3 trials already initiated and in other Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials in the Novartis Territory initiated following the effective date of the Novartis Agreement. Novartis will have control over, and will be responsible for the costs of, all other clinical trials that may be required to obtain marketing approvals in the Novartis Territory for licensed products under the agreement. Novartis is also responsible for costs associated with co-formulation development, pre-filled syringe development and other development costs in the Novartis Territory, but excluding regulatory filing fees in the European Union for the standalone Fovista product, for which we will be responsible. 

The Novartis Agreement, unless earlier terminated by us or Novartis, will expire upon the expiration of Novartis's obligation to pay us royalties on net sales of licensed products. We and Novartis each may terminate the Novartis Agreement if the other party materially breaches the agreement and does not cure such breach within a specified cure period, if the other party experiences any specified insolvency event, if the other party challenges or assists a third party in challenging the validity or enforceability of certain patent rights controlled by the terminating party, or if the parties are prevented in any manner that materially adversely affects the progression of the development or commercialization of licensed products for a specified period as a result of specified governmental actions. Novartis may terminate the Novartis Agreement at any time without cause, or within a specified period after a change in control of our company, as defined in the Novartis Agreement, or for specified safety reasons, effective at the end of a specified period following Novartis's written notice to us of Novartis's election to terminate the agreement. We may also terminate the agreement if Novartis determines to seek marketing approval of an alternative anti-PDGF product in the Novartis Territory as more fully described below. If we elect to terminate the Novartis Agreement because specified governmental actions prevent the parties from materially progressing the development or commercialization of licensed products as described above, we will be required to pay a substantial termination fee. Following any termination, all rights to Fovista that we granted to Novartis, including, without limitation, the right to commercialize standalone Fovista products in the Novartis Territory, will revert to us, Novartis will perform specified activities in connection with transitioning to us the rights and responsibilities for the continued development, manufacture and commercialization of the standalone Fovista product for countries in the Novartis Territory, and the parties will cooperate on an orderly wind down of development and commercialization activities for other licensed products in the Novartis Territory. 

Novartis has agreed to specified limitations on its ability to in-license, acquire or commercialize any anti-PDGF product that does not contain Fovista, referred to as an Alternative Anti-PDGF Product, in the Novartis Territory and, to the extent Novartis develops, in-licenses or acquires such a product, to make such product available to us in the United States under specified option conditions. If we exercise our option, we will be obligated to make certain payments to Novartis, including specified milestone and royalty payments. The amounts of such payments will vary based on the product's stage of clinical development at the time we exercise our option, whether the product is a standalone or combination product and whether Novartis exercises an option to co-promote such product in the United States. If Novartis determines to seek marketing approval of an Alternative Anti-PDGF Product in the Novartis Territory, we will, subject to specified limitations, have the option to terminate the Novartis Agreement, convert Novartis's exclusive licenses into non-exclusive licenses, or elect to receive a royalty on sales of such product by Novartis. If we elect to terminate the Novartis Agreement, Novartis will, subject to specified limitations, be required to pay to us certain payments based on achievement, with respect to such product, of the milestones that would have otherwise applied to licensed products under the Novartis Agreement. 

The agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant to which Novartis agrees to certain restrictions relating to our voting securities until marketing approval for a standalone Fovista product is granted in either the United States or the European Union. The agreement contains indemnification and dispute resolution provisions that are customary for agreements of its kind. 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we were informed by Novartis that Genentech, Inc. a Roche wholly-owned subsidiary, elected to exercise its option to participate in the financial arrangements relating to Novartis' rights under the Novartis Agreement. Roche's option originated from a pre-existing agreement between Roche and Novartis. The ex-U.S. commercialization agreement between Novartis and us, including its financial terms, remains unchanged as a result of the exercise of the opt-in right. We continue to retain sole rights to Fovista in the United States. 

Government Regulation and Product Approvals 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. The processes for obtaining marketing approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in the United States 

In the United States, the FDA approves and regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The failure to comply with requirements under the FDCA and other applicable laws at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant and/or sponsor to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, including refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and other types of letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal investigations and penalties brought by the FDA and the Department of Justice or other governmental entities. 

A product candidate must be approved by the FDA through an NDA. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#149; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#149; submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; &#149; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#149; preparation and submission to the FDA of an NDA requesting marketing for one or more proposed indications; &#149; review by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; &#149; satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product's identity, strength, quality and purity; &#149; satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of the clinical data; &#149; payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA; and &#149; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including the potential requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, and the potential requirement to conduct post-approval studies. 62 

Preclinical Studies 

Before an applicant begins testing a compound with potential therapeutic value in humans, the drug candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, and the purity and stability of the drug substance, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the drug for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. 

The IND and IRB Processes 

An IND is an exemption from the FDCA that allows an unapproved drug to be shipped in interstate commerce for use in an investigational clinical trial and a request for FDA authorization to administer an investigational drug to humans. Such authorization must be secured prior to interstate shipment and administration of any new drug that is not the subject of an approved NDA. In support of a request for an IND, applicants must submit a protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. The FDA requires a 30-day waiting period after the filing of each IND before clinical trials may begin. This waiting period is designed to allow the FDA to review the IND to determine whether human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. At any time during this 30-day period, or thereafter, the FDA may raise concerns or questions about the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND and impose a clinical hold or partial clinical hold. In this case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. 

In addition to the foregoing IND requirements, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. An IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on its ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human Clinical Trials in Support of an NDA 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

&#149; Phase 1. The drug is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or, in certain indications, patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness and to determine optimal dosage. 63 

&#149; Phase 2. The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. &#149; Phase 3. These clinical trials are commonly referred to as "pivotal" studies, which denotes a study that presents the data that the FDA or other relevant regulatory agency will use to determine whether or not to approve a drug. The drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, identify adverse effects, establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. &#149; Phase 4. Post-approval studies may be required to be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. Progress reports detailing the safety results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The FDA or the sponsor or the data monitoring committee may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

Review of an NDA by the FDA 

If clinical trials are successful, the next step in the drug development process is the preparation and submission to the FDA of an NDA. The NDA is the vehicle through which drug applicants formally propose that the FDA approve a new drug for marketing and sale in the United States for one or more indications. The NDA must contain a description of the manufacturing process and quality control methods, as well as results of preclinical tests, toxicology studies, clinical trials and proposed labeling, among other things. Every new drug must be the subject of an approved NDA before it may be commercialized in the United States. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is subject to an application user fee and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. 

Following submission of an NDA, the FDA conducts a preliminary review of an NDA generally within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74th day after the FDA's receipt of the submission to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs. Under that agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for "priority review" are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of drugs that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that FDA receives the application. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections may cover all facilities associated with an NDA submission, including drug component manufacturing (e.g., active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is an NME. 

The FDA is required to refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

The FDA's Decision on an NDA 

On the basis of the FDA's evaluation of the NDA and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug's safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Priority Review Designations and Accelerated Approval 

The FDA is authorized to designate certain products for expedited review if they are intended to address an unmet medical need in the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. These programs are fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review designation. The FDA may also approve certain products based on an accelerated basis. 

Specifically, the FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other products, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening 

disease or condition, and if the product demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for such a disease or condition. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA and the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product's application before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if the FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and the FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. However, the FDA's time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the application is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

In 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Product Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated as "breakthrough therapies." A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other products, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. 

The FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a product that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The FDA determines, on a case- by-case basis, whether the proposed product represents a significant improvement when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting product reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and to shorten the FDA's goal for taking action on a marketing application from ten months to six months. 

The FDA may grant accelerated approval to a product for a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage to patients over existing treatments based upon a determination that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA may also grant accelerated approval for such a condition when the product has an effect on an intermediate clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality and that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Products granted accelerated approval must meet the same statutory standards for safety and effectiveness as those granted traditional approval. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the 

establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#149; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, or complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#149; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#149; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#149; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#149; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, and its implementing regulations, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the regulation of drug distributors by the states. The PDMA, its implementing regulations and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples, and the DSCA imposes requirements to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Abbreviated New Drug Applications for Generic Drugs 

In 1984, with passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FDCA, Congress established an abbreviated regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve generic drugs that are shown to contain the same active ingredients as, and to be bioequivalent to, drugs previously approved by the FDA pursuant to NDAs. To obtain approval of a generic drug, an applicant must submit an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the agency. An ANDA is a comprehensive submission that contains, among other things, data and information pertaining to the active pharmaceutical ingredient, bioequivalence, drug product formulation, specifications and stability of the generic drug, as well as 

analytical methods, manufacturing process validation data and quality control procedures. ANDAs are "abbreviated" because they generally do not include preclinical and clinical data to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Instead, in support of such applications, a generic manufacturer may rely on the preclinical and clinical testing previously conducted for a drug product previously approved under an NDA, known as the reference-listed drug, or RLD. 

Specifically, in order for an ANDA to be approved, the FDA must find that the generic version is identical to the RLD with respect to the active ingredients, the route of administration, the dosage form, the strength of the drug and the conditions of use of the drug. At the same time, the FDA must also determine that the generic drug is "bioequivalent" to the innovator drug. Under the statute, a generic drug is bioequivalent to a RLD if "the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug..." Upon approval of an ANDA, the FDA indicates whether the generic product is "therapeutically equivalent" to the RLD in its publication "Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations," also referred to as the "Orange Book." Physicians and pharmacists consider a therapeutic equivalent generic drug to be fully substitutable for the RLD. In addition, by operation of certain state laws and numerous health insurance programs, the FDA's designation of therapeutic equivalence often results in substitution of the generic drug without the knowledge or consent of either the prescribing physician or patient. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the FDA may not approve an ANDA until any applicable period of non-patent exclusivity for the RLD has expired. The FDCA provides a period of five years of non-patent data exclusivity for a new drug containing a new chemical entity. For the purposes of this provision, a new chemical entity, or NCE, is a drug that contains no active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance, that has previously been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. In cases where such NCE exclusivity has been granted, an ANDA may not be filed with the FDA until the expiration of five years unless the submission is accompanied by a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the applicant may submit its application four years following the original product approval. The FDCA also provides for a period of three years of exclusivity if the NDA includes reports of one or more new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, that were conducted by or for the applicant and are essential to the approval of the application. 

505(b)(2) NDAs 

As an alternative path to FDA approval for modifications to formulations or uses of products previously approved by the FDA pursuant to an NDA, an applicant may submit an NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) was enacted as part of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on FDA's previous findings of safety and effectiveness is scientifically and legally appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements, including clinical trials, to support the change from the previously approved RLD. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the RLD has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Certification and the 30-Month Stay 

Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant's product or an approved method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the Orange Book. When an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant files its application with the FDA, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the RLD in the Orange Book, except for patents covering 

methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#149; the required patent information has not been filed; &#149; the listed patent has expired; &#149; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#149; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved RLD's listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicates that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired (other than method of use patents involving indications for which the applicant is not seeking approval). 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA or the 505(b)(2) application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of 30 months after the receipt of the Paragraph IV notice, expiration of the patent, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. The ANDA or 505(b)(2) application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the branded reference drug has expired. 

Patent Term Restoration and Extension 

A patent claiming a new drug product or its method of use may be eligible for a limited patent term extension, also known as patent term restoration, under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. Patent term extension is generally available only for drug products whose active ingredient has not previously been approved by the FDA. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term extension cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product's approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension in consultation with the FDA. 

Pediatric Studies and Exclusivity 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, an NDA or supplement thereto must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. With enactment of the FDASIA in 2012, sponsors must also submit pediatric study plans prior to the assessment data. Those plans must contain an outline of the proposed pediatric study or studies the applicant plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, any deferral or waiver requests, and any other information required by regulation. The applicant, the FDA, and the FDA's internal review committee must then review the 

information submitted, consult with each other, and agree upon a final plan. The FDA or the applicant may request an amendment to the plan at any time. 

The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Additional requirements and procedures relating to deferral requests and requests for extension of deferrals are contained in FDASIA. Unless and until FDA promulgates a regulation stating otherwise, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity or patent protection, including the non-patent and orphan exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA's request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. With regard to patents, the six-month pediatric exclusivity period will not attach to any patents for which an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant submitted a paragraph IV patent certification, unless the NDA sponsor or patent owner first obtains a court determination that the patent is valid and infringed by the proposed product. 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a drug product as an "orphan drug" if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, generally meaning that it affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. A company must request orphan drug designation before submitting an NDA for the drug and rare disease or condition. If the request is granted, the FDA will disclose the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential use. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the PDUFA goal dates for the regulatory review and approval process, although it does convey certain advantages such as tax benefits and exemption from the PDUFA application fee. 

If a product with orphan designation receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation or for a select indication or use within the rare disease or condition for which it was designated, the product generally will receive orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that the FDA may not approve another sponsor's marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in certain limited circumstances. Orphan exclusivity does not block the approval of a different drug for the same rare disease or condition, nor does it block the approval of the same drug for different indications. If a drug designated as an orphan drug ultimately receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what was designated in its orphan drug application, it may not be entitled to exclusivity. Orphan exclusivity will not bar approval of another product under certain circumstances, including if a subsequent product with the same drug for the same indication is shown to be clinically superior to the approved product on the basis of greater efficacy or safety, or providing a major contribution to patient care, or if the company with orphan drug exclusivity is not able to meet market demand. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in Europe and other Foreign Jurisdictions 

In addition to regulations in the United States, a manufacturer is subject to a variety of regulations in foreign jurisdictions to the extent it chooses to sell any drug products in those foreign countries. Even if a manufacturer obtains FDA approval of a product, it must still obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug in the European Union, a manufacturer must submit a marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA. For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, clinical trials are to be conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

Clinical Trial Approval in the European Union 

Pursuant to the currently applicable Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC and the Directive 2005/28/EC on Good Clinical Practice, an applicant must obtain approval from the competent national authority of the European Union Member State, or the EU Member State, in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. If the clinical trial is conducted in different EU Member States, the competent authorities in each of these EU Member States must provide their approval for the conduct of the clinical trial. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial at a specific study site after the competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. 

In April 2014, the European Union adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable to and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation. The new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. It will overhaul the current system of approvals for clinical trials in the European Union. Specifically, the new legislation aims at simplifying and streamlining the approval of clinical trials in the European Union. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Marketing Authorization 

In the European Union, marketing authorizations for medicinal products may be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process. 

The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU Member States. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products produced by certain biotechnological processes, products designated as orphan medicinal products, and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases. It is optional for those products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. Under the centralized procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of an MAA is 210 days, excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP. Accelerated evaluation may be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases. These are defined as circumstances in which a medicinal product is expected to be of a "major public health interest." Three cumulative criteria must be fulfilled in such circumstances: the seriousness of the disease, such as severely disabling or 

life-threatening diseases, to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In these circumstances, the EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other concerned EU Member States of an assessment of an application for marketing authorization conducted by one EU Member State, known as the reference EU Member State. In accordance with this procedure, an applicant submits an application for marketing authorization to the reference EU Member State and the concerned EU Member States. This application is identical to the application that would be submitted to the EMA for authorization through the centralized procedure. The reference EU Member State prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. The resulting assessment report is submitted to the concerned EU Member States which, within 90 days of receipt, must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. 

If a concerned EU Member State cannot approve the assessment report and related materials due to concerns relating to a potential serious risk to public health, disputed elements may be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all EU Member States. In accordance with the mutual recognition procedure, the sponsor applies for national marketing authorization in one EU Member State. Upon receipt of this authorization the sponsor can then seek the recognition of this authorization by other EU Member States. Authorization in accordance with either of these procedures will result in authorization of the medicinal product only in the reference EU Member State and in the other concerned EU Member States. 

A marketing authorization may be granted only to an applicant established in the European Union. Regulation No. 1901/2006 provides that, prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the European Union, an applicant must demonstrate compliance with all measures included in a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA, covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP. 

Regulatory Data Exclusivity in the European Union 

Innovative medicinal products authorized in the European Union on the basis of a full MAA (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data available in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved, medicinal product) are entitled to eight years of data exclusivity. During this period, applicants for authorization of generic versions of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. Innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years' of market exclusivity. During this ten year period no generic version of the medicinal product can be placed on the EU market. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to authorization, is held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity so that the innovator gains the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company may market another version of the product if such company obtained marketing authorization based on an MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical tests, preclinical tests and clinical trials. 

Periods of Authorization and Renewals in the European Union 

A marketing authorization is valid for five years, in principle, and it may be renewed after five years on the basis of a reevaluation of the risk-benefit balance by the EMA or by the competent authority of the relevant EU Member State. To that end, the marketing authorization holder must 

provide the EMA or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State with a consolidated version of the file in respect of quality, safety and efficacy, including all variations introduced since the marketing authorization was granted, at least six months before the marketing authorization ceases to be valid. Once renewed, the marketing authorization is valid for an unlimited period, unless the European Commission or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal period. Any marketing authorization that is not followed by the marketing of the medicinal product on the EU market (in the case of the centralized procedure) or on the market of the EU Member State which delivered the marketing authorization within three years after authorization ceases to be valid. 

Regulatory Requirements after Marketing Authorization 

As in the United States, marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual EU Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. 

The holder of an EU marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with EU pharmacovigilance legislation and its related regulations and guidelines, which detail requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. These rules can impose on central marketing authorization holders for medicinal products the obligation to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies. 

The manufacturing process for medicinal products in the European Union is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. Manufacturing requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidance, including Directive 2001/83/EC, Directive 2003/94/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the European Commission Guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practice. These requirements include compliance with EU cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the EU with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the European Union. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the EU is subject to compliance with the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the EU Member States. 

In the European Union, the advertising and promotion of products are subject to EU Member States' laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU Member States may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product's Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the European Union. The applicable laws at the European Union level and in the individual EU Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of products to the general public and may also impose limitations on promotional activities with health care professionals. 

Pediatric Studies and Exclusivity 

Prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the European Union, applicants must demonstrate compliance with all measures included in an EMA-approved PIP covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, a class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP. The respective requirements for all marketing authorization procedures are laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the so-called Pediatric Regulation. This requirement also applies when a company wants to add a new indication, pharmaceutical form or route of administration for a medicine that is already authorized. The Pediatric Committee of the EMA, or PDCO, may grant deferrals for some medicines, allowing a company to delay development of the medicine for children until there is enough information to demonstrate its effectiveness and safety in adults. The PDCO may also grant waivers when development of a medicine for children is not needed or is not appropriate, such as for diseases that only affect the elderly population. Before an MAA can be filed, or an existing marketing authorization can be amended, the EMA determines that companies actually comply with the agreed studies and measures listed in each relevant PIP. If an applicant obtains a marketing authorization in all EU Member States, or a marketing authorization granted in the Centralized Procedure by the European Commission, and the study results for the pediatric population are included in the product information, even when negative, the medicine is then eligible for an additional six month period of qualifying patent protection through extension of the term of the Supplementary Protection Certificate, or SPC. 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity in the European Union 

Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and Regulation (EC) No. 847/2000 provide that a product can be designated as an orphan medicinal product by the European Commission if its sponsor can establish that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of: (1) a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the European Union when the application is made, or (2) a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the European Union and that without incentives the medicinal product is unlikely to be developed. For either of these conditions, the applicant must demonstrate that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the European Union or, if such method exists, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition. 

Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity in all EU Member States and, in addition, a range of other benefits during the development and regulatory review process, including scientific assistance for study protocols, authorization through the centralized marketing authorization procedure covering all member countries and a reduction or elimination of registration and marketing authorization fees. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if the product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and markets in other countries, patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage 

and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Thus, even if a product candidate is approved, sales of the product will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations, provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for, the product. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and imposing controls to manage costs. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable marketing approvals. Nonetheless, product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover a product candidate could reduce physician utilization once the product is approved and have a material adverse effect on sales, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a payor's decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor's determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage and reimbursement for the product, and the level of coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor. 

The containment of healthcare costs also has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit a company's revenue generated from the sale of any approved products. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which a company or its collaborators receive marketing approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Outside the United States, ensuring adequate coverage and payment for a product also involves challenges. Pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in many countries. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies or so called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. 

Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states, and parallel trade, i.e., arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any products, if approved in those countries. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims laws, reporting of payments to physicians and teaching physicians and patient privacy laws and regulations and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain business and/or financial arrangements. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#149; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; &#149; the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false, fictitious or fraudulent or knowingly making, using or causing to made or used a false record or statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; &#149; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; &#149; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, which impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; &#149; the federal false statements statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; &#149; the federal transparency requirements known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, which requires certain manufacturers 76 

of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services, information related to payments and other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and 

&#149; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to healthcare items or services that are reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Healthcare Reform 

A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, limiting coverage and reimbursement for drugs and other medical products, government control and other changes to the healthcare system in the United States. 

By way of example, the United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act, which, among other things, includes changes to the coverage and payment for products under government health care programs. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to potential drug candidates are: 

&#149; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; &#149; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer's Medicaid rebate liability; &#149; expanded manufacturers' rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of "average manufacturer price," or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; &#149; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; &#149; expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; &#149; established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to 77 

eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers' outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 

&#149; established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; &#149; established the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. The Affordable Care Act provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and &#149; established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had 116 full-time employees, including a total of 15 employees with M.D. or Ph.D. degrees. Of our workforce, 81 employees are engaged in research and development. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Our Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at One Penn Plaza, 19th Floor, New York, NY 10119, and our telephone number is (212) 845-8200. Our Internet website is http://www.ophthotech.com. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make these reports available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. You can find, copy and inspect information we file at the SEC's public reference room, which is located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the SEC's public reference room. You can review our electronically filed reports and other information that we file with the SEC on the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov. We also make available, free of 

charge on our website, the reports filed with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders pursuant to Section 16 under the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after copies of those filings are provided to us by those persons. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

