 Item 1. Business. 

GENERAL 

Invacare Corporation is a leading manufacturer and distributor in its markets for medical equipment used in non-acute care settings. At its core, the company designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices that help people to move, breathe, rest and with essential hygiene. The company provides medical device solutions for congenital (e.g., cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, spina bifida), acquired (e.g., stroke, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, post-acute recovery, pressure ulcers) and degenerative (e.g., ALS, multiple sclerosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), elderly, bariatric) ailments. The company revises its product lines to meet changing market demands and currently offers numerous product lines. The company sells its products principally to home medical equipment providers with retail and e-commerce channels, residential living operators, distributors and government health services in the United States, Europe, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Asia. Invacare&#8217;s products are sold through its worldwide distribution network by its sales force, telesales associates and independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives and distributors. In most markets, the company does not work directly with patients or receive reimbursement from healthcare payors. 

Invacare is committed to design and deliver the best clinical value in medical products, which promote recovery and active lifestyles for people requiring home and other non-acute care. Yes, You Can. &#174; &#32;continues to be the company's global tagline as it is indicative of the "can do" attitude of many of the people who use the company's products. In everything it does, the company strives to leave its stakeholders with its brand promise - Making Life's Experiences Possible &#8482; . 

The company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1971. When the company was acquired in December 1979 by a small group of investors, it had $19.5 million in net sales and a limited product line of lifestyle wheelchairs and patient aids. Invacare's net sales in 2015 &#32;were approximately $1.1 billion &#32;thus yielding a 13% &#32;compound average annual sales growth rate since 1979. Based upon the company&#8217;s distribution channels, breadth of product line and net sales, Invacare is a leading company in many of the following major, non-acute, medical equipment categories: custom power and manual wheelchairs, homecare bed systems and home respiratory therapy. 

The company&#8217;s executive offices are located at One Invacare Way, Elyria, Ohio, 44035 and its telephone number is (440) 329-6000. In this report, &#8220;Invacare&#8221; and the &#8220;company&#8221; refer to Invacare Corporation and, unless the context otherwise indicates, its consolidated subsidiaries. 

THE HOME MEDICAL EQUIPMENT INDUSTRY 

The home medical equipment (HME) market includes home health care products, physical rehabilitation products and other non-disposable products used for therapy and the long-term care of patients. As pressure on healthcare spending continues to escalate around the world, the company believes that increased delivery of care outside acute settings will be a significant part of the healthcare reform. In addition, technological advances have made medical equipment increasingly capable for use outside acute care settings. Current hospital procedures often allow for earlier patient discharge, thereby lengthening recuperation periods outside of the traditional institutional setting. Payors and providers are looking for ways to reduce spending in the most costly settings, and reduce patient exposure that can lead to co-morbidities. These incentives are accelerating the discharge of patients earlier or to recover in facilities with more cost-effective capabilities. Patients often prefer treatment in less institutional settings and are migrating to out-patient and ambulatory care centers. 

A report from the United Nations, World Population Ageing 2013 , states that the number of people age 60 years and older will more than double from 841 million people in 2013 to more than 2 billion in 2050. Despite getting older or having disabilities, people have increasing expectations for levels of activity and community participation throughout their lives. People around the world are increasingly unwilling to retire to a sedentary lifestyle and be left out of the world around them. The company provides solutions that allow people with congenital, acquired or degenerative conditions to engage with the world around them and live more fully. 

With the costs of healthcare continuing to increase, the company believes that the interests of patients and healthcare providers are converging. This convergence will result in optimized care being performed in the most appropriate setting at a lower cost. Invacare believes that patients prefer care in less institutional settings, which can lead to better clinical outcomes and be more cost-effective. As payors become more judicious in their spending on healthcare, the company believes companies that provide better care or demonstrate better clinical outcomes will have an advantage. With its diverse product portfolio, clinical solutions, global scale and focus on the non-acute care setting, the company believes it is well positioned to serve this growing market. 

I-3 

North America Market 

North America's population is growing and significantly aging. By 2025, 18.1% of the U.S. population will be age 65 and older as noted in a February 2011 New York Times article. While institutional care likely will remain an important part of the North American healthcare system, the company believes it is not the best and most cost-effective environment of care for many patients, particularly those with chronic medical conditions. Medicare-aged patients with chronic illnesses are placing unprecedented pressure on the current financial stability and sustainability of the Medicare program. This is resulting in a shift from acute care to lower costs of care settings, including long-term acute care facilities, skilled nursing facilities and the home. According to 2013 data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), home healthcare spending has been rising at a 7% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2000 through 2013, and CMS projects the effects of shifts of care will continue to drive more value through this channel of CAGR of over 6% at least through the next seven years. Initiatives by the United States government, such as Accountable Care Organizations, can align incentives for healthcare providers to partner closely across all medical specialties and settings and have the potential to significantly alter the trajectory of rising healthcare costs. The company primarily addresses this marketing through four channels: home healthcare providers, rehabilitation providers, long-term care facilities and government agencies. 

The Canadian health care system is a publicly funded model that provides coverage to all citizens. The provinces and territories administer and deliver most of Canada's health care services but all provincial and territorial health insurance plans are expected to meet the national principles set out under the Canada Health Act. The objective of the Act is to provide consumer-centered support and funding to residents who have long-term physical disabilities and to provide access to personalized assistive devices appropriate for the individual&#8217;s basic needs. Each provincial and territorial health insurance plan differs in terms of the reimbursement policies and product specifications and this allows health services to be tailored to the particular needs of their residents. 

Europe Market 

While each country in Europe has distinct characteristics, many of the factors driving demand and reduced reimbursement in the regions are consistent with North America: aging of the population, growing number of patients with chronic illnesses, a strong preference to deliver healthcare at home, desire to use technology to reduce expensive clinical or nursing labor as well as technological trends. Variations in product specifications, regulatory approval processes, distribution requirements and reimbursement policies require the company to tailor its approach to each local market. Therefore a core strategy is to effectively penetrate these markets with global product platforms that are localized with country-specific adjustments as necessary. This is especially the case for power wheelchairs, manual wheelchairs, and respiratory products. In all European countries, customers make product selections based upon quality, product specification alignment with local reimbursement requirements, and excellent customer care. 

Asia/Pacific Market 

The company's Asia/Pacific segment is comprised of revenues from products sold into Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, Korea and South East Asia. Invacare's Asia/Pacific businesses sell through six distribution channels. Mobility and seating products are sold via a dealer network with almost all sales directly government-funded. Homecare products are sold via a dealer network that sells products to the consumer market. Long-term care products are sold via a dealer network and directly to care facilities. The company operates a rental business in New Zealand supporting the three largest District Health Boards (DHB&#8217;s) in New Zealand&#8217;s North Island, comprising approximately 60% of the New Zealand population. Asia export sales are sold via distributors and agents based in Japan, Korea, India and South East Asia. Invacare China sells almost exclusively homecare products through retail channels via a distributor and dealer network focused in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou. 

Reimbursement 

In most markets, the company does not sell products directly to the patient, nor does it receive reimbursement from healthcare payors. In some cases, the company sells directly to a government payor. For example, in the United States the company works directly with the Veterans Administration. In the United Kingdom, the company works directly with the National Health Service (NHS) and similarly in Scandinavian countries. In most cases, the company&#8217;s customers work directly with consumers to determine their medical need and then purchase products directly from the company. The customer may seek reimbursement from a private or government payor on behalf of the consumer, as appropriate. As a result, the company's products are affected by government regulation and reimbursement policies in virtually every country in which it operates. Reimbursement guidelines in the home health care industry have a substantial impact on the nature and type of equipment an end-user can obtain and, thus, affect the product mix, pricing and payment patterns of the company&#8217;s customers who are typically medical equipment providers. In the European market, many products are no longer being reimbursed and are migrating into consumer / retail channels, including 

I-4 

scooters, walking aids and several hygiene (bathroom) products. The company believes its strong market position and technical expertise will allow it to respond to ongoing reimbursement changes. However, the issues described above will likely continue to have an adverse impact on the pricing of the company&#8217;s products. 

PRODUCT CATEGORIES 

The company manufactures and distributes products in three key product categories: 

Mobility and Seating Products 

&#8226; 

Power Wheelchairs . Invacare designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of power wheelchairs for individuals who require independent powered mobility. The range includes products that can be significantly customized to meet an individual&#8217;s specific needs, as well as products that are inherently versatile and meet a broad range of individual requirements. Center-wheel drive power wheelchair lines are marketed under the Invacare &#174; TDX &#174; &#32;brand name. The TDX line of power wheelchairs offers a combination of power, stability and maneuverability. Power tilt and recline seating systems are offered as well. Both the TDX &#174; &#32;and Pronto &#174; &#32;series of power wheelchairs with SureStep &#174; &#32;stability feature center-wheel drive performance. The company also has front- and rear-wheel drive power wheelchair technology, most notably the Storm Series &#174; &#32;rear-wheel drive series. The company has several subsidiaries that specialize in complex rehabilitation technology. For example, Adaptive Switch Labs (ASL) manufactures alternative electronic control systems, such as enabling control via sip/puff or head position inputs for consumers with limited dexterity. Motion Concepts has top-of-the line powered seating and positioning technology. The company continues to lead this market with unique intellectual property in wheelchair suspension, alternative controls and electronics. 

&#8226; 

Custom Manual Wheelchairs . Invacare designs, manufactures and markets a range of custom manual wheelchairs and recreational products for everyday use, outdoor recreation, and casual and competitive sports. These lightweight devices are marketed under the Invacare &#174; &#32;and Invacare &#174; &#32;Top End &#174; &#160; brand names. The company&#8217;s Motion Concepts subsidiary also has an all-terrain custom manual wheelchair with specialized features to endure more rugged terrain. In Europe, the company has a premiere line of custom manual wheelchairs designed and manufactured by the K&#252;schall brand based in Switzerland. These custom manual wheelchairs provide mobility for people with moderate to severe disabilities in their everyday activities as well as for use in various sports such as basketball, racing and tennis. The company&#8217;s competitive advantage includes custom manual wheelchairs with the ability to collapse to fit in small spaces for ease of transportability, and the use of strong lightweight materials for durability and ease of use by the consumer. 

&#8226; 

Seating and Positioning Products . Invacare manufactures and markets seat cushions, back supports and accessories under three series. The Invacare &#174; Seating &#38; Positioning series provides simple seating solutions. The Invacare &#174; &#32;Matrx &#174; &#32;Series offers versatile modular seating. The company's PinDot &#174; &#32;series provides seating and positioning cushions based on custom molds of individuals with unique anatomy. This high-level of customization is highly specialized in the market, and is sought by therapists who need solutions for their most complex clinical situations. 

Lifestyle Products 

&#8226; 

Manual Wheelchairs . Invacare designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of manual wheelchairs. The company's manual wheelchairs are sold for use in the home, institutional settings, public places, and outdoors. Consumers include people who are chronically or temporarily disabled and require basic mobility performance with little or no frame modification. Examples of the company&#8217;s manual wheelchair lines, which are marketed under the Invacare &#174; &#32;brand name, include the 9000 and Tracer &#174; &#32;wheelchairs. These wheelchairs are designed to accommodate the diverse capabilities and unique needs of the individual. 

&#8226; 

Personal Care . Invacare is principally a distributor of a full line of personal care products, including ambulatory aids such as crutches, canes, rollators, walkers, knee walkers and wheeled walkers. Also available are bathing safety aids such as tub transfer benches, shower chairs and grab bars, as well as patient care products such as commodes and other toileting aids. 

&#8226; 

Homecare Beds . Invacare manufactures and distributes a wide variety of manual, semi-electric and fully-electric beds for home use under the Invacare &#174; &#32;brand name. Homecare bed accessories include bedside rails, mattresses, overbed tables and trapeze bars. Also available are bariatric beds and accompanying accessories to serve the special needs of bariatric patients. The company&#8217;s bed systems introduced the split-spring bed design, which is easier for HME providers to deliver, assemble and clean. Invacare&#8217;s beds also feature patented universal bed-ends, where the headboard and footboard may be used interchangeably. This enables customers to more efficiently deploy their inventory. 

I-5 

&#8226; 

Pressure Relieving Sleep Surfaces . Invacare manufactures and distributes a complete line of therapeutic pressure relieving overlays and mattress replacement systems for the prevention and treatment of pressure ulcers. The Invacare &#174; &#32;Softform and microAIR &#174; &#32;brand names feature a broad range of pressure relieving foam mattresses or powered mattress replacements with alternating pressure, low-air-loss or rotational mattresses, which redistribute weight and assist with moisture management. These mattresses are designed to provide comfort, support and relief to those patients who are immobile or have limited mobility; who may have fragile skin or be susceptible to skin breakdown; and who spend long periods in bed. 

&#8226; 

Patient Transport . Invacare manufactures and distributes products needed to assist in transferring individuals from surface to surface (e.g., bed to chair) or transporting from room to room. Designed for use in the home or institutional settings, these products include patient lifts and slings. 

Respiratory Therapy Products 

The company designs and manufactures products that concentrate oxygen for consumers who need supplemental oxygen for breathing. Invacare &#174; &#32;oxygen products meet a wide variety of needs, including stationary systems for use while at home and portable systems for mobile use. Historically, oxygen therapy was provided by delivery of large flasks of liquid oxygen or the routine delivery of compressed oxygen to patients. Invacare&#8217;s newer modalities of oxygen supply replace more costly and constraining delivery-based forms of care. 

&#8226; 

Stationary Oxygen Concentrators . Invacare oxygen concentrators are manufactured under the Perfecto2 &#8482; and Platinum &#8482; &#32;brand names and are available in five- and ten-liter models. All Invacare stationary concentrators are designed to provide patients with durable equipment that reliably concentrates oxygen either in the home or a healthcare setting. Stationary oxygen concentrators are typically used by people needing nocturnal oxygen, or those who have advanced COPD and are unable to leave their homes. 

&#8226; 

Non-Delivery Oxygen Technology . &#32; Industry trends continue to displace modes of oxygen therapy that involve delivery, which is more costly to provide and less convenient for patients who need to coordinate the exchange of oxygen containers. The Invacare &#174; &#32;HomeFill &#174; &#32;Oxygen System is a solution that forms the basis for a non-delivery model and allows oxygen patients to fill their own high-pressure cylinders from an oxygen concentrator within the home and therefore have very convenient portable sources of supply. Published industry data suggests a large portion of the costs associated with home oxygen therapy are directly associated with delivery-related activities required to meet the ambulatory oxygen therapy needs of patients. Technology, such as the HomeFill system, allows home medical equipment providers to virtually eliminate time-consuming and costly service calls associated with cylinder and/or liquid oxygen deliveries while at the same time enhancing patient care. In addition, patients are free to concentrate oxygen in portable tanks at their convenience. 

Rounding out Invacare&#8217;s non-delivery respiratory offerings are the Invacare &#174; &#32;XPO2 &#174; &#32;portable oxygen concentrator and the Invacare &#174; &#32;SOLO2 &#174; &#32;portable oxygen concentrator available in Europe, both of which have been approved by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for use on board commercial flights. The XPO2 portable concentrator has pulse settings from 1-5 to help meet the varying needs of those with respiratory ailments. It features Invacare &#174; &#32;Sensi-Pulse &#8482; &#32;Technology that customizes the size of each bolus of oxygen to meet patient demand. The SOLO2 portable concentrator offers continuous flow oxygen up to three liters per minute or pulse dose oxygen delivery and is portable and easy to operate. 

GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS 

Europe 

The company&#8217;s European operations operate as a &#8220;common market&#8221; with sales throughout Europe. The European segment is integrated with North America and other global subsidiaries for new product development and shares additional corporate resources. The company manufactures power wheelchair products at Invacare Porta Westfalica, Germany, and Alber GmbH in Germany. The company produces power add-ons from Alber GmbH in Germany. Manual wheelchair products are manufactured at Kuschall AG in Switzerland, Invacare Rea AB in Sweden, and Invacare Fondettes, France. In addition to manual wheelchairs, Invacare Rea AB in Sweden manufactures institutional beds primarily for the Nordic market. The company's facility in Portugal assembles beds, mainly for the Southern European markets, and patient lifts for the whole of Europe. Personal care products are manufactured at Aquatec GmbH in Germany. Invacare UK Ltd. manufactures therapeutic support surfaces, and seating and positioning products. It also receives imported seating and positioning products from Invacare&#8217;s Motion Concepts subsidiary in Canada. Oxygen products, such as concentrators and Invacare &#174; &#32;HomeFill &#174; &#32;oxygen systems, are imported from Invacare U.S. or 

I-6 

China operations. The European segment comprised 47.0% , 48.1% &#32;and 43.7% &#32;of the net sales from continuing operations in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

North America 

North America includes the following segments in the United States and Canada: North America/Home Medical Equipment (North America/HME) and Institutional Products Group (IPG). 

&#8226; 

North America/Home Medical Equipment (North America/HME) &#32;- This segment primarily includes: mobility and seating, lifestyle and respiratory therapy product lines as discussed above. Products are sold through home healthcare providers, rehabilitation providers and to government provider agencies like the Veterans Administration. This segment comprised 41.5% , 40.0% &#32;and 44.2% &#32;of the net sales from continuing operations in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

&#8226; 

Institutional Products Group (IPG) &#32; - Invacare, operating as Invacare Continuing Care and Invacare Continuing Care Canada, sells and distributes healthcare furnishings including long-term care beds, case goods, safe patient handling equipment, and certain other home medical equipment and accessory products for long-term care customers. This segment also provides interior design services for nursing homes and assisted living facilities involved in renovation and new construction. IPG also included Dynamic Medical System, LLC, and Invacare Outcomes Management, LLC (collectively "the rentals businesses") which were divested on July 2, 2015. This segment comprised 7.6% , 8.1% &#32;and 8.4% &#32;of net sales from continuing operations in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Asia/Pacific 

The company&#8217;s Asia/Pacific operations consist of Invacare Australia, Invacare New Zealand and Dynamic Controls. The company distributes a range of home medical equipment including mobility and seating, lifestyle and respiratory therapy products to homecare and long-term care markets in Australia and New Zealand. Dynamic Controls is a manufacturer of electronic operating components used in power wheelchairs, scooters, respiratory and other products used in Invacare products and in products sold by other companies. This segment comprised 3.9% , 3.8% &#32;and 3.7% &#32;of the net sales from continuing operations in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Discontinued Operations 

Invacare distributed numerous lines of branded medical supplies for ostomy, incontinence, diabetic, enteral, wound care and urology products, as well as home medical equipment, including lifestyle products through Invacare Supply Group, Inc. (ISG), which was divested on January 18, 2013 . Invacare manufactured and sold medical recliners for dialysis clinics through its Champion Manufacturing, Inc. (Champion) subsidiary that was divested on August 6, 2013 . Invacare also manufactured and sold stationary standing assistive devices for use in patient rehabilitation through its Altimate Medical, Inc., subsidiary that was divested on August 29, 2014. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Discontinued Operations. 

Divested Operations 

Invacare divested the rentals businesses on July 2, 2015 , which were included in the IPG segment. Prior to the disposition of these rentals businesses, IPG had rented long-term care medical equipment and accessory products through these rentals businesses. The company determined that the sale of the rentals businesses did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation. 

For financial information regarding reportable segments, including revenues from external customers, products, segment profitability, assets and other information by segments, see Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

WARRANTY 

Generally, the company&#8217;s products are covered by warranties against defects in material and workmanship from the date of sale to the customer for various periods depending on the product. Certain components carry a lifetime warranty. 

I-7 

COMPETITION 

North America and Asia/Pacific 

The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and Invacare products face significant competition from other well-established manufacturers and distributors. Various competitors, from time to time, have instituted price-cutting programs in an effort to gain market share and may do so again in the future. In addition, as reimbursement pressures persist in the U.S. market, some customers are beginning to directly source select lifestyle products to secure a low-cost advantage. The company believes that its success in increasing market share is dependent on providing value to the customer based on the quality, performance, durability, and clinical benefits of the company's products, the technical expertise of the sales force, the effectiveness of the company's distribution system, the strength of the dealer and distributor network and the availability of prompt and reliable service for its products. 

Europe 

As a result of the different reimbursement specifications per country and varied competitive distribution practices across Europe, the principal competition varies from one country to another. In 2015, some consolidation resulted in country-specific or limited regional competitors becoming regional affiliates of global competitors. In the areas of beds, hygiene, walking aids and safe patient handling, country-specific competitors remain strong and more localized. 

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION 

North America 

In the United States, Invacare products are marketed primarily to HME providers, rehabilitation equipment providers, long-term care providers and government agencies, who in turn sell or rent these products directly to consumers. The company also employs a &#8220;pull-through&#8221; marketing strategy to medical professionals, including physical and occupational therapists, who refer their patients to HME providers to obtain specific types of home medical equipment. In 2015, the North American sales force began to shift from a generalist sales force to one more focused on clinically complex products, including complex rehabilitation technology, therapeutic support surfaces, safe patient handling, non-delivery oxygen technology and bariatric products. 

Invacare&#8217;s North America/HME sales and marketing organization consists primarily of a sales force which markets and sells both Invacare &#174; &#32;branded products and products from Invacare subsidiaries, such as Motion Concepts, Freedom Designs, and Adaptive Switch Labs, to customers within homecare, long-term care, rehabilitation and government channels. Invacare&#8217;s HME outside sales force functions as Territory Business Managers (TBM), who handle clinically complex product and service needs for an account. The TBM also provides clinical training and product in-services to providers. TBMs are supported by the Inside Sales Department that provides support on the company's broad product portfolio and increased sales coverage of smaller accounts. In Canada, products are sold by a sales force and distributed through regional distribution centers to health care providers throughout Canada. 

Products from the IPG segment include beds and resident room furnishings, safe patient handling equipment, bathing systems, and therapeutic support surfaces. The IPG sales and marketing organizations consist of outside sales representatives and independent representative agencies supported by a marketing group that generates awareness and demand at skilled nursing facilities for Invacare products and services. IPG also provides interior design services and products for nursing homes and assisted living facilities involved with renovation and new construction. 

The company contributes extensively to editorial coverage in trade publications concerning the products the company manufactures. Company representatives attend numerous trade shows and conferences on a national and regional basis in which Invacare products are displayed to providers, health care professionals, managed care professionals and consumers. The company also drives awareness of its brand through its website, as well as online communities targeted toward the people who use its products. 

The company raises consumer awareness of its products through its sponsorship of a variety of wheelchair sporting events and support of various philanthropic causes benefiting the consumers of the company's products. The company continued its sponsorships of individual wheelchair athletes and teams, including several of the top-ranked male and female racers, hand cyclists and wheelchair tennis players in the world. In 2015, the company fit and provided highly customized sports devices to elite global athletes who were competing to qualify for their respective national teams in anticipation of the 2016 Paralympic Games. In addition, the company continued its support of disabled veterans through its sponsorship of the 36th National Veterans Wheelchair Games, the largest annual wheelchair sporting event in the world. The games bring a competitive and recreational sports experience 

I-8 

to military service veterans who use wheelchairs for their mobility needs due to spinal cord injury, neurological conditions or amputation. 

Europe 

The company&#8217;s European operations primarily conduct manufacturing, marketing and distribution functions in Western Europe and coordinate export sales activities through local distributors elsewhere in the world. The company has a sales force and, where appropriate, distribution centers in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Norway and the Netherlands, and sells through distributors elsewhere in Europe, Russia, the Middle East and Africa. In markets where the company has its own sales force, product sales are typically made through dealers of medical equipment and, in certain markets, directly to government agencies. In 2015, as in previous years, pricing comparison across borders along with customer consolidation are driving the development of pan European pricing policies and control. The company has centralized some of its distribution to a European Distribution Center in France, which optimizes logistics costs and increases service levels to customers. 

Asia/Pacific 

The company's Asia/Pacific segment is comprised of revenues from selling electronic controls systems to medical equipment OEMs from its Dynamic Controls business and revenue from trade sales and rentals to customers in Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, Korea and South East Asia. Invacare Asia/Pacific businesses sell through six distribution channels: 

&#8226; 

Mobility and seating products are sold via a dealer network with almost all sales directly government funded; 

&#8226; 

Homecare products are sold via a dealer network that sells products to the consumer market; 

&#8226; 

Long-term care products are sold via a dealer network and directly to aged care facilities; 

&#8226; 

Invacare operates a rentals business in New Zealand supporting the three largest District Health Boards (DHB&#8217;s) in New Zealand&#8217;s North Island, comprising approximately 60% of the New Zealand population; 

&#8226; 

Asia export sales are sold via distributors and agents based in Japan, Korea, India and South East Asia; and 

&#8226; 

Invacare China sells primarily homecare products to retail channel customers via third-party distribution network focused in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou. 

Invacare Australia and New Zealand have invested heavily in marketing efforts to increase demand for Invacare products, with customer relationship management, marketing automation, and sales and marketing database tools being introduced to increase market penetration. These tools are expected to be introduced in China during 2016. 

Sponsorship efforts are focused around &#8220;grassroots&#8221; programs aimed at introducing people with disabilities to sports as a pathway to inclusion. In 2016, Invacare New Zealand is &#8220;a supporting partner of Paralympics New Zealand&#8221; and the &#8220;Preferred Equipment Supplier of Paralympics New Zealand.&#8221; Invacare also sponsors the "Oz Day 10K" classic wheelchair race on Australia Day. Invacare is a sponsor of the Attitude Trust and is a named sponsor for the Disabled Sports Person of the Year award that is held as part of the Attitude Awards on World Disability Day in New Zealand. 

&#160; 

Dynamic Controls, Ltd., the company's subsidiary which produces electronic components for use in power wheelchairs, scooters, respiratory and other products, sells to other Invacare subsidiaries and to external customers in North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific. 

PRODUCT LIABILITY COSTS 

The company is self-insured in North America for product liability exposures through its captive insurance company, Invatection Insurance Company, which insures annual policy losses up to $10,000,000 per occurrence and $13,000,000 in the aggregate. Invatection&#8217;s policy-year runs from September 1 to August 31. The company also has additional layers of external insurance coverage insuring up to $75,000,000 in aggregate losses per policy-year arising from individual claims anywhere in the world that exceed the captive insurance company policy limits or the limits of the company&#8217;s per country foreign liability limits, as applicable. There can be no assurance that Invacare&#8217;s current insurance levels will continue to be adequate or available at affordable rates. 

Product liability reserves are recorded for individual claims based upon historical experience, industry expertise and indications from the third-party actuary. Additional reserves, in excess of the specific individual case reserves, are provided for 

I-9 

incurred but not reported claims based upon actuarial valuations at the time such valuations are conducted. Historical claims experience and other assumptions are taken into consideration to estimate the ultimate reserves. For example, the actuarial analysis assumes that historical loss experience is an indicator of future experience, that the distribution of exposures by geographic area and nature of operations for ongoing operations is expected to be very similar to historical operations with no dramatic changes and that the government indices used to trend losses and exposures are appropriate. Estimates made are adjusted on a regular basis and can be impacted by actual loss awards and settlements on claims. While actuarial analysis is used to help determine adequate reserves, the company is responsible for the determination and recording of adequate reserves in accordance with accepted loss reserving standards and practices. 

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING 

In 2015, Invacare introduced select products that improved and renewed its current offerings. The following are some of Invacare's notable new products introduced in 2015: 

&#8226; 

The ROVI &#174; &#32;X3 Power Base with Motion Concepts Ultra Low Maxx Power Positioning was launched in North America and Asia/Pacific available with a full range of Motion Concepts power positioning products. This wheelchair features center-wheel drive with the narrowest wheelbase in the market and a unique chassis configuration for enhanced stability. 

&#8226; 

The new Freedom Designs &#174; &#32;P.R.O. CG &#8482; &#32;Tilt-in-Space Wheelchair features a lightweight design (just 34 lb. in transport configuration), compact size (base frame is only 21.75&#8221; long), and simple adjustments for enhanced maneuverability. The Precise Rotational Orientation makes the wheelchair easy to push, tilt, un-tilt, and turn, making it easy to use with a full range of patient sizes and living environments. The product is available globally. 

&#8226; 

Designed with the highest level of skin protection, positioning and adjustability to match unique user needs, the new Invacare &#174; &#32;Matrx &#174; &#32;Libra &#8482; &#32;Cushion offers a complete range of seat cushion and bolster solutions for balance and stability while optimizing body function. The Libra Cushion is made from high-resilience foam with Ultra-Fresh&#8482; anti-microbial and odor protection, featuring a highly flexible inner liner for an extra layer of moisture protection. 

&#8226; 

In Europe, the company launched the Invacare &#174; &#32;Action &#174; &#32;5 medium-active lightweight foldable wheelchair with two patents pending. Winner of the prestigious 2015 RED-DOT design award, the Action 5 wheelchair features an innovative horizontal folding system and a unique stepless adjustable backrest mechanism that allows fine adjustments to be made by the clinician while the consumer remains seated. Its unique folding mechanism allows the wheelchair to be folded using one hand instead of two hands, which is typically the case with folding wheelchairs. It is highly configurable, but it still has the stability and ride of a rigid (non-folding) wheelchair. This product will launch in the United States in 2016 as the Invacare &#174; &#32;MyOn &#8482; &#32;HC custom manual wheelchair. 

&#8226; 

The K&#252;schall &#174; &#32;Champion wheelchair model is a new foldable wheelchair that sets the standard for the next generation at the highest level by offering the driving performance and the stability of a rigid wheelchair with all the advantages of a foldable one. It includes stiffness and rigidity for unrivaled driving performance, millimeter adjustments, and an aesthetically sparse frame design. 

&#8226; 

The Motion Concepts Ultra Low Maxx power positioning system is designed to bring unparalleled levels of adjustability, comfort and support to power wheelchair consumers with complex needs. Already established in the North American rehabilitation market, the Ultra Low Maxx was introduced in Europe on the Invacare power wheelchair models TDX &#174; &#32;SP2, Storm &#174; &#32;4 and Storm &#174; 4 X-plore. 

&#8226; 

In Europe, the company launched two economy mattresses - the Invacare &#174; &#32;Essential Care and Invacare &#174; &#32;Essential Visco mattresses. Both mattresses offer comfort and reduce contact pressure for healthy skin. The Essential Care mattress accomplishes this with a castellated surface. The Visco mattress adds a layer of viscoelastic material for further comfort and pressure distribution. Both mattresses serve needs in the residential healthcare environment. 

MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS 

The company&#8217;s objective is to efficiently deploy assets in its supply network to achieve the best quality, service performance and lowest total cost. The company achieves this with a combination of value from Invacare facilities, contract manufacturers and key suppliers. 

The company continues to emphasize reducing the cost of its global manufacturing and distribution operations. A culture deploying current Good Manufacturing Practices (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;) and Lean Manufacturing principles eliminates waste throughout the network and seeks ongoing improvements. At its core, the company&#8217;s operational focus accommodates both custom-configured products for specialized clinical situations and the efficient distribution of made-to-stock products. 

I-10 

The company procures raw materials, components and finished goods from a global network. The company utilizes regional and Asian sourcing offices for the identification, development and management of its supply base. Where appropriate, Invacare utilizes suppliers across multiple regions to ensure flexibility, continuity and responsiveness. The company&#8217;s network of engineering design centers, product management groups and manufacturing sites work to optimize cost and strategic expertise. The company has regional product management groups translating user needs into product requirements, which are then translated into product designs in engineering centers of excellence and produced in locations that optimize quality, cost, delivery performance and working capital. 

North America 

The company operates several vertically integrated and complex assembly factories in North America to manufacture its custom powered wheelchairs and seating products (Elyria, OH); manual wheelchairs and patient aids (Reynosa, MX); beds, institutional case goods and respiratory therapy products (Sanford, FL); manual recreational and wheelchair products (Clearwater, FL), passive manual and pediatric wheelchairs (Simi Valley, CA), seating and positioning systems (Toronto, ONT). Products made in North American operations are sold in North America and are shipped as finished goods and as subcomponents to internal and external customers globally. The company is rationalizing its North American distribution network to optimize delivery performance and cost. 

Asia/Pacific 

Invacare manufactures products that serve regional markets through the company&#8217;s wholly-owned factories in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. The Suzhou facilities supply finished goods and subcomponents to internal and external customers in the major geographic regions of the world. 

Europe 

The company has eight manufacturing/assembly facilities in Europe with capabilities to manufacture patient aid, wheelchair, powered mobility, bath safety, beds, therapeutic support surfaces, and patient transport products. Products manufactured in Europe are used by customers in Europe, Middle East and Africa. In some cases finished goods and components are distributed to internal and external customers globally. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

The company is affected by regulations that govern the manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of its products and regulate healthcare reimbursement. These policies differ among and within every country in which the company operates. Changes in regulations, guidelines, procedural precedents and healthcare policy take place frequently and can impact the size, growth potential and profitability of products sold in each market. 

In the U.S., healthcare costs have increased at rates in excess of the rate of inflation and as a percentage of GDP for several decades. A number of efforts to control the federal deficit have impacted reimbursement levels for government sponsored healthcare programs. Private insurance companies often adopt changes in federal programs. Reimbursement guidelines in the home healthcare industry have a substantial impact on the nature and type of equipment a consumer can obtain and thus, affect the product mix, pricing and payment patterns of the company&#8217;s customers who are the medical equipment providers. 

The company has continued its efforts to influence public policies that impact home-based and long-term non-acute healthcare. The company has been actively educating federal and state legislators about the needs of the patient communities it serves and has worked with policy authors to ensure the industry&#8217;s healthcare consumer needs are represented. The company believes its efforts have given the company a competitive advantage. Customers and end-users recognize the company&#8217;s advocacy efforts and the company has the benefit of remaining apprised of emerging policy direction. 

FDA 

&#32;The United States Food and Drug Administration (the &#8220;FDA&#8221;) regulates the manufacture and sale of medical devices. Under such regulation, medical devices are classified as Class I, Class II or Class III devices, depending on the level of risk posed to patients, with Class III designating the highest-risk devices. The company&#8217;s principal products are designated as Class I or Class II devices. In general, Class I devices must comply with labeling and record-keeping requirements and are subject to other general controls. In addition to general controls, certain Class II devices must comply with product design and manufacturing controls in compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR). Domestic and foreign manufacturers of medical devices distributed 

I-11 

commercially in the U.S. are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. Furthermore, state, local and foreign governments have adopted regulations relating to the design, manufacture and marketing of health care products. 

Consent Decree 

In December 2012, the company reached agreement with the FDA on the terms of the consent decree of injunction with respect to the company's Corporate facility and its Taylor Street wheelchair manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. A complaint and consent decree were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and on December 21, 2012, the Court approved the consent decree and it became effective. The consent decree limits the company's manufacture and distribution of power and manual wheelchairs, wheelchair components and wheelchair sub-assemblies at or from its Taylor Street manufacturing facility. The decree also initially limited design activities related to wheelchairs and power beds that take place at the impacted Elyria, Ohio facilities. The company is entitled to continue to produce from the Taylor Street manufacturing facility certain medically necessary wheelchairs provided that documentation and record-keeping requirements are followed, as well as ongoing replacement, service and repair of products already in use, under terms delineated in the consent decree. The consent decree specifies the terms under which the company may resume full operations at the impacted facilities. The company must complete third-party expert certification audits at the impacted Elyria facilities, which comprises three distinct reports. These reports must be submitted to, and accepted by, the FDA. During 2013, the company completed the first two of the third-party expert certification audits, and the FDA found the results of both to be acceptable. In these reports, the third-party expert certified that the company's equipment and process validation procedures and its design control systems are compliant with the FDA's QSR. As a result of the FDA's acceptance of the first certification report on May 13, 2013, the Taylor Street facility was able to resume supplying parts and components for the further manufacturing of medical devices at other company facilities. The company's receipt of the FDA's acceptance of the second certification report on July 15, 2013, allowed the company to resume design activities at the impacted facilities related to power wheelchairs and power beds. In February 2016, the independent expert issued the third certification report, which was submitted to the FDA, indicating substantial compliance to the FDA's QSR at the impacted Elyria facilities. 

Per the terms of the consent decree, the company must submit its own report to the FDA regarding the actions it has taken to improve its quality systems and its overall compliance status together with its written responses to any observations in the independent expert's certification report and prior FDA inspection observations. Both the independent expert's third certification report as well as the company's own report must be accepted by the FDA before the Agency will reinspect the impacted Elyria facilities. If the FDA finds the company is compliant with the QSR requirements, the FDA will provide written notification that the company is permitted to resume full operations at the impacted facilities. The company cannot predict the acceptance of these reports by the FDA, nor any remaining work that may be needed to meet the FDA's requirements. The FDA has the authority to inspect any FDA registered facility at any time. 

After resumption of full operations, the company must undergo five years of audits by a third-party expert to determine whether the facilities are in continuous compliance with FDA regulations and the consent decree. The auditor will inspect the Corporate and Taylor Street facilities&#8217; activities every six months during the first year following the resumption of full operations and then annually for the following four years. 

Under the consent decree, the FDA has the authority to order the company to take a wide variety of actions if the FDA finds that the company is not in compliance with the consent decree or FDA regulations, including requiring the company to cease all operations relating to Taylor Street products. The FDA also can order the company to undertake a partial cessation of operations or a recall, issue a safety alert, public health advisory, or press release, or to take any other corrective action the FDA deems necessary with respect to Taylor Street products. 

The FDA also has authority under the consent decree to assess liquidated damages of $15,000 per violation per day for any violations of the consent decree, FDA regulations or the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA also may assess liquidated damages for shipments of adulterated or misbranded devices, except as permitted by the consent decree, in the amount of twice the sale price of any such adulterated or misbranded device. The liquidated damages are capped at $7,000,000 for each calendar year. The liquidated damages are in addition to any other remedies otherwise available to the FDA, including civil money penalties. 

For additional information regarding the consent decree, please see the following sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Item 1. Business - Government Regulation; Item 1A. Risk Factors; and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Outlook and - Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

I-12 

Other FDA Matters 

In December 2010, the company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality system processes and procedures at the company's Sanford, Florida facility. In October 2014, the FDA conducted an inspection at the Sanford facility and, at the conclusion, issued four inspection observations on Form 483, three of which related to complaint handling and Corrective And Preventative Actions (CAPA) process and a fourth related to production process controls. The company has filed its response with the FDA and continues to work on addressing the FDA observations. At the time of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, this matter remains pending. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

In January 2014, the FDA conducted inspections at the company&#8217;s manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China and at the company&#8217;s electronic components subsidiary in Christchurch, New Zealand, covering quality systems and current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations. In August 2014, the FDA inspected Alber GmbH in Albstadt, Germany. The FDA issued its inspection observations on Form 483 to the company after these inspections, and the company submitted its responses to the agency in a timely manner. 

In December 2015, the FDA issued a Form 483 with observations following a 2015 inspection of approximately five months duration at the Corporate and Taylor Street facilities in Elyria, Ohio which included a review of the company&#8217;s compliance with terms of the consent decree and the matters covered by the first and second expert certification reports previously accepted in 2013. The company has filed its response to this Form 483 with the FDA and continues to work on addressing the FDA's observations. 

From time to time, the company may undertake voluntary recalls or field corrective actions of the company&#8217;s products to correct product issues that may arise. These actions are necessary to ensure the company's products adhere to high standards of quality and safety. The company continues to operate these programs to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and actively keeps abreast of proposed regulations, particularly those which could have a material adverse effect on the company. 

National Competitive Bidding 

With respect to reimbursement in the United States, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is a significant payor and governs healthcare reimbursement for Medicare and Medicaid services. On January 1, 2011, CMS began its National Competitive Bidding (NCB) program in nine metropolitan statistical areas across the country (Round 1) for the purpose of reducing healthcare spending. On July 1, 2013, CMS expanded the program to an additional 91 metropolitan statistical areas (Round 2). These bid programs have resulted in new, lower Medicare payment rates in these 100 areas. CMS rebids these areas at least every three years. In January 2016, CMS began the deployment of NCB rates to the remainder of the Medicare population that had not yet been impacted by the program, primarily to rural areas. CMS has divided the United States into eight regions and is applying the average reimbursement reduction per NCB product category in each region from Round 1 and Round 2 to the rural providers in those eight regions. Fifty percent of the reimbursement reduction became effective in January 2016. The remaining half of the reduction is expected to be applied in July 2016. The company&#8217;s exposure to effects of NCB rate reductions and any similar reductions from private payors or state agencies is primarily related to the increased credit risk of its customers whose revenue is based on reimbursement. As reimbursement rates are reduced, the company&#8217;s customers will see pressure on the profitability and liquidity of their businesses. The company therefore remains judicious in its extension of credit to its customers and is vigilant about collections efforts. 

Although reductions in Medicare payments are not beneficial to the homecare industry, the company believes it can still grow and thrive in this environment. No significant cost-of-living adjustments have been made to reimbursement rates by CMS over the last few years that affect the company&#8217;s products, and the company intends to continue its own productivity initiatives. As a result of reimbursement reductions, the company&#8217;s customers are increasingly interested in cost-effective clinical solutions for their clients. Some of the company&#8217;s solutions are particularly effective in providing clinical benefits to patients and cost-effective healthcare provision for the company&#8217;s customer-providers. As an example, the company&#8217;s respiratory therapy products can help offset reimbursement reductions by reducing or eliminating the need for routine delivery services to end-users. Delivery costs can be a substantial element of cost for its customers. HomeFill oxygen systems and the company&#8217;s oxygen concentrators can provide effective convenient therapy for consumers and cost-effective equipment solutions for providers. The company intends to develop other products that help providers improve profitability. 

BACKLOG 

The company generally manufactures its products to meet near-term demands by shipping from stock or by building to order based on the specialized nature of certain products. Therefore, the company does not have substantial backlog of orders of any particular product nor does it believe that backlog is a significant factor for its business. 

I-13 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , the company had approximately 4,700 &#32;employees. 

FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES 

The company also markets its products for export to other foreign countries. In 2015 , the company's products were sold in over 100 countries. For information relating to net sales, operating income and identifiable assets of the company&#8217;s foreign operations, see Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The company files Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as well as proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any material that the company files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov , which contains all reports, proxy statements and other information filed by the company with the SEC. 

Additionally, Invacare&#8217;s filings with the SEC are available on or through the company&#8217;s website, www.invacare.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with, or furnished to, the SEC. Copies of the company&#8217;s filings also can be requested, free of charge, by writing to: Shareholder Relations Department, Invacare Corporation, P.O. Box 4028, Elyria, OH 44036-2125. The contents of the company's website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

I-14 

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the &#8220;Safe Harbor&#8221; provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Terms such as &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;could,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;continue,&#8221; &#8220;believe&#8221; and &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; as well as similar comments, denote forward-looking statements that are subject to inherent uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Actual results and events may differ significantly from those expressed or anticipated as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include, but are not limited to, the following: compliance costs, limitations on the production and/or distribution of the company's products, inability to bid on or win certain contracts, unabsorbed capacity utilization, including fixed costs and overhead, or other adverse effects of the FDA consent decree of injunction; any circumstances or developments that might delay or adversely impact the FDA's acceptance of the third, most comprehensive expert certification audit or FDA inspection of the company's quality systems at the Elyria, Ohio, facilities impacted by the FDA consent decree, including any possible failure to comply with the consent decree or FDA regulations, requirement to perform additional remediation activities or further resultant delays in receipt of the written notification to resume operations; regulatory proceedings or the company's failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for the company's products or operations in the United States or abroad; adverse effects of regulatory or governmental inspections of company facilities at any time and governmental enforcement actions; product liability or warranty claims; product recalls, including more extensive recall experience than expected; the failure or refusal of customers or healthcare professionals to sign verification of medical necessity (VMN) documentation or other certification forms required by the exceptions to the FDA consent decree; possible adverse effects of being leveraged, including interest rate or event of default risks; exchange rate fluctuations, in light of the relative importance of the company's foreign operations to its overall financial performance; legal actions, including adverse judgments or settlements of litigation or claims in excess of available insurance limits; adverse changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels and practices both in the U.S. and in other countries (such as, for example, more extensive pre-payment reviews and post-payment audits by payors, or the continuing roll out of the Medicare National Competitive Bidding program); impacts of the U.S. Affordable Care Act of 2010 (such as, for example, the impact on the company of the excise tax on certain medical devices, and the company's ability to successfully offset such impact); ineffective cost reduction and restructuring efforts or inability to realize anticipated cost savings or achieve desired efficiencies from such efforts; delays, disruptions or excessive costs incurred in facility closures or consolidations; interest rate or tax rate fluctuations; additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect the company's future profitability and cash flow; inability to design, manufacture, distribute and achieve market acceptance of new products with greater functionality or lower costs or new product platforms that deliver the anticipated benefits; consolidation of health care providers; lower cost imports; uncollectible accounts receivable; difficulties in implementing/upgrading Enterprise Resource Planning systems; risks inherent in managing and operating businesses in many different foreign jurisdictions; decreased availability or increased costs of materials which could increase the company's costs of producing or acquiring the company's products, including possible increases in commodity costs or freight costs; heightened vulnerability to a hostile takeover attempt; provisions of Ohio law or in the company's debt agreements, charter documents or other agreements that may prevent or delay a change in control, as well as the risks described from time to time in the company's reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except to the extent required by law, the company does not undertake and specifically declines any obligation to review or update any forward-looking statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of such statements to reflect future events or developments or otherwise. 

I-15 

