 Item 1. Business 

General 

References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report") to "we", "our", "us", "InvenTrust" and the "Company" are references to InvenTrust Properties Corp., and our business and operations conducted through our direct or indirect subsidiaries. 

InvenTrust was incorporated as Inland American Real Estate Trust, Inc. in October 2004 as a Maryland corporation and has elected to be taxed, and currently qualifies, as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal tax purposes. We were formed to own, manage, acquire and develop a diversified portfolio of commercial real estate located throughout the United States and to own properties in development and partially own properties through joint ventures, as well as investments in marketable securities and other assets. As of December 31, 2015 , our portfolio was comprised of 129 &#32;properties representing 15.3 million &#32;square feet of retail space, 11,039 &#32;student housing beds and 5.7 million &#32;square feet of non-core space. 

Throughout 2015 and into 2016, we have continued to implement our strategy of focusing, tailoring, and refining our portfolio of real estate assets to enhance stockholder value and provide liquidity events for our stockholders. We achieved several important milestones in our efforts, including the purchase of four high performing retail assets located in key markets such as Denver, Dallas and Orlando, as well as the following: 

&#8226; 

In February 2015, we completed the spin-off and listing of our lodging platform, Xenia Hotels &#38; Resorts, Inc. ("Xenia"); 

&#8226; 

In April 2015, we changed our name to InvenTrust in order to highlight and develop a brand that was independent from our former sponsor and distinguish ourselves in our core retail business; 

&#8226; 

In November 2015, we signed a new $300 million unsecured term loan credit facility with a group of lenders led by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC; 

&#8226; 

In December 2015, we announced our intent to spin off substantially all of our non-core assets through the distribution of the shares of common stock of Highlands REIT, Inc. ("Highlands"), a wholly-owned subsidiary that we formed to hold these assets; and 

&#8226; 

In January 2016, after undergoing a robust evaluation process, we announced an agreement to sell our student housing platform, University House Communities Group, Inc. ("University House"), for approximately $1.4 billion. 

These actions, which are described in more detail below, are consistent with our strategy to focus on becoming a pure-play multi-tenant retail platform. Moving forward, we plan to continue to acquire open-air assets in key growth markets with favorable demographics and expected above-average net operating income growth, while disposing of non-strategic properties in markets that are low growth, lack sufficient asset concentration and do not provide a favorable opportunity to build significant concentration. 

Spin-Off of Xenia Hotels &#38; Resorts, Inc. 

On February 3, 2015, we completed the spin-off of our subsidiary, Xenia (the "Xenia Spin-Off"), which at the time owned 46 premium full service, lifestyle and urban upscale hotels and two hotels in development, through the pro rata taxable distribution of 95% of the outstanding common stock of Xenia to holders of record of our common stock as of the close of business on January 20, 2015, the record date. Each holder of record of our common stock received one share of Xenia&#8217;s common stock for every eight shares of our common stock held at the close of business on the record date. In lieu of fractional shares, our stockholders received cash. On February 4, 2015, Xenia&#8217;s common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the ticker symbol "XHR." 

Following the Xenia Spin-Off, our board of directors analyzed and reviewed our distribution rate, and on February 24, 2015, we announced that our board reduced our annual distribution rate from $0.50 per share of common stock to $0.13 per share of common stock. 

A number of factors were considered in establishing the new distribution rate. Xenia generated a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and as a result, our previous distribution rate was not sustainable after the Xenia Spin-Off. In addition, our board of directors determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to retain additional operating cash flow in order 

to accumulate an appropriate level of capital reserves to enable us to tailor and grow our retail and student housing platforms, consistent with our strategy and objectives, as well as to address future lease maturities and disposition plans related to several properties in our non-core portfolio. 

Anticipated Spin-Off of Assets Included in Our Non-Core Segment 

On December 23, 2015, we announced our intent to spin off substantially all of the assets included in our non-core segment through the pro-rata distribution of 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Highlands REIT, Inc. ("Highlands"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of InvenTrust that was formed to hold a number of our remaining non-core assets. Highlands has filed a preliminary registration statement on Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the proposed spin-off. Through this spin-off, we expect Highlands to be better-positioned to provide stockholders with a return of their investment by liquidating and distributing net proceeds from the non-core portfolio in a value-maximizing manner. 

Upon completion of the proposed separation and distribution from InvenTrust, Highlands will be an independent, self-managed, non-traded REIT with a dedicated management team focused on preserving, protecting and maximizing the total value of its portfolio. Highlands&#8217; portfolio is expected to consist of seven single- and multi-tenant office assets, two industrial assets, six retail assets, two correctional facilities, four parcels of unimproved land and one bank branch. Highlands will be led by Richard Vance, who currently serves as our Senior Vice President - Portfolio Management &#38; Corporate Strategy, and in which role he has been responsible for managing our non-core segment with regard to asset management, property operations and leasing. Mr. Vance will serve as Highlands&#8217; President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of Highlands&#8217; board of directors. 

We anticipate that the spin-off will be effected by means of a pro-rata distribution by us of 100% of the outstanding shares of Highlands common stock. This will occur on a distribution date to be set by our board of directors in the future by way of a taxable pro-rata special distribution to our stockholders of record on the record date of the distribution. Each of our stockholders will be entitled to receive a to-be-determined number of shares of Highlands common stock for a to-be-determined number of shares of our common stock held by each stockholder at the close of business on the record date of the distribution. 

Although the distribution of the outstanding shares of Highlands common stock will be in the form of a taxable distribution to our stockholders, we do not anticipate recognizing taxable gain as a result of the distribution. As a result, so long as stockholders own our common stock for the entire year in which the distribution occurs, we anticipate that the spin-off and distribution of Highlands common stock will not increase the amount of dividend income stockholders would have recognized if the distribution had not occurred. 

Following the distribution, our stockholders will own shares in both InvenTrust and Highlands. The number of InvenTrust shares held by stockholders will not change as a result of the distribution of Highlands common stock. Stockholder approval of the distribution is not required, and our stockholders will not be required to make any payment, or to surrender or exchange their shares of our common stock or take any other action to receive their shares of Highlands common stock on the distribution date. Highlands&#8217; shares of common stock will not be listed on any securities exchange or other market as part of the spin-off. Following the completion of the distribution, we will not continue to own any shares of common stock of Highlands. 

We currently expect the spin-off to be completed in the second quarter of 2016. The completion of the spin-off will be subject to conditions and approvals, including, among others, the registration statement on Form 10 being declared effective by the SEC and final approval of the spin-off and related transactions by our board of directors. 

Entry into Agreement to Sell Student Housing Platform 

On January 4, 2016, we announced that we entered into a definitive purchase agreement with UHC Acquisition Sub LLC, a subsidiary of a joint venture formed between Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, GIC and Scion Communities Investors LLC, under which the joint venture&#8217;s subsidiary will acquire our student housing platform, University House. The agreement&#8217;s gross all-cash value is $1.4 billion. Under the terms of the agreement, the final net proceeds will be determined at the closing of the transaction following the determination of several events and closing considerations. During the period between signing and closing, University House has agreed, among other things, to conduct its business in the ordinary course, not acquire or dispose of any material properties and to continue to develop its development properties in accordance with existing development plans. The parties made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the agreement. 

The transactions contemplated by the agreement, which are expected to close in the second quarter of 2016, are subject to customary closing conditions. The agreement contains provisions pursuant to which the closing may be deferred until up to 

July 5, 2016 in order to obtain certain third-party consents. The agreement provides that either the Company or acquiror may terminate the agreement at any time prior to the closing pursuant to customary termination rights. Upon certain events of termination, our sole recourse is an $85 million reverse break-up fee to be funded by the joint venture partners. For a more-detailed summary of the terms of the agreement, see our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 4, 2016. 

Estimated Share Value and Distribution Rate 

As previously announced, we are deferring the publication of a new estimated share value until closer proximity to the spin-off of Highlands and the closing of the student housing sale, which are expected to occur in the second quarter of 2016. We have engaged an independent, third-party valuation firm to assist in the valuation. The valuation firm will provide a detailed explanation of the valuation method, analysis and process used to estimate a new per share value. We expect the value of our shares of common stock to be lower immediately following the spin-off of Highlands, as the value of our stock will no longer reflect the value of the Highlands portfolio. Once the new estimated share value is determined, we will disclose to stockholders how it was calculated and determined. 

Our board of directors will analyze and review our distribution rate in connection with the spin-off of Highlands and the student housing sale. We expect distribution payments to decrease because the University House assets produced significant cash flow for us. We expect to announce a new distribution rate correlated to the cash generated from the remaining portfolio of assets after the closing of the student housing sale. 

Strategy and Objectives 

Upon completion of the transactions described above, our sole remaining platform will be focused on multi-tenant retail properties. As a pure-play retail company, our strategy will be to acquire open-air assets in key growth markets with favorable demographics and expected above-average net operating income growth, while disposing of non-strategic properties in markets that are low growth, lack sufficient asset concentration and do not provide a favorable opportunity to build significant concentration. Our objective has been, and will continue to be, maximizing stockholder value over the long term. 

We believe we have built a strong foundation in our retail portfolio. Our strategy includes focusing on key growth markets across the country, primarily in the Sun Belt states, and growing our presence in those markets. These key markets share fundamental characteristics such as job growth, increasing wages and population growth. Within these markets, we will look to invest in properties with high traffic patterns and in desirable locations. We are confident about our investment opportunities in this space, particularly as national and regional retailers continue to place a premium on retail space in leading markets. We will dispose of non-strategic retail properties to take advantage of market conditions or in situations where the properties no longer fit within our strategic objectives. 

We believe that through the active management of our retail portfolio, we can positively impact our financial performance as follows: 

&#8226; 

increase rental rates by replacing underperforming tenants with stronger tenants who better meet the needs of the applicable market and improve the overall shopping experience of the property; 

&#8226; 

expand our network of regional offices to continue to focus our regional leasing and operating teams on maximizing local market knowledge and build solid relationships with our tenants; 

&#8226; 

invest capital in our properties to ensure we continue to meet the needs of our tenants and their customers; 

&#8226; 

continue to reduce property expense levels to minimize overhead and operating costs; 

&#8226; 

utilize the combined expertise of our staff in striving to provide the optimal shopping experience for our merchants and their customers; 

&#8226; 

proactively manage tenant mix and lease rollover to minimize exposure to any one tenant or concentration of lease renewals in a particular period; and 

&#8226; 

strive to maximize portfolio net operating income through implementation of select re-development and outparcel re-development opportunities. 

Segment Data 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our business segments are retail, student housing and non-core. We evaluate segment performance primarily based on net operating income and modified net operating income. Net operating income of the 

segments excludes interest expense, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, net income of noncontrolling interest and other investment income from corporate investments. Modified net operating income reflects the income from operations excluding nonrecurring events and other GAAP rent adjustments in order to provide a comparable presentation of operating activity across periods. Modified net operating income and net operating income is calculated and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") net income in "Part II, Item 8. Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data". The non-segmented assets consist of our cash and cash equivalents, investment in marketable securities, construction in progress, investment in unconsolidated entities and notes receivable. Information related to our business segments, including a measure of profits or loss and revenues from our tenants for each of the last three fiscal years and total assets for each of the last two fiscal years, is set forth in "Part II, Item 8. Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Significant Tenants 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we generated approximately 15.8% &#32;of our total annualized rental income (excluding student housing) from three non-core properties leased to one tenant, AT&#38;T ("AT&#38;T"). The original terms of these leases expire in 2016, 2017, and 2019, as described in more detail below. 

One of these properties, with a lease expiration in August 2016 and approximately 1.7 million square feet, is in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, which is in the greater metro Chicago market. AT&#38;T did not renew this lease during the contractual renewal option period. The second property, with a lease expiration in September 2017 and approximately 1.5 million square feet is in St. Louis, Missouri. The renewal option for this lease expires in September 2016. The third property, with a lease expiration in September 2019 and approximately 460,000 square feet is in Cleveland, Ohio. 

There is a strong possibility that AT&#38;T may not renew any or all of its leases. The three non-core properties leased to AT&#38;T are included in the non-core asset portfolio that we intend to spin off in the second quarter of 2016, subject to conditions and approvals. See "- General - Anticipated Spin-Off of Assets Included in Our Non-Core Segment" for more information regarding the spin-off and the risk factors related to the spin-off and the AT&#38;T leases in "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

Tax Status 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), beginning with the tax year ended December 31, 2005. Because we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on taxable income that we distribute to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, without the benefit of certain relief provisions, we will be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain state and local taxes on our income, property or net worth, respectively, and to federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed income. 

Competition 

The commercial real estate market is highly competitive. We compete for tenants in all of our markets with other owners and operators of commercial properties. We compete based on a number of factors that include location, rental rates, security, suitability of the property&#8217;s design to tenants&#8217; needs and the manner in which the property is operated and marketed. The number of competing properties in a particular market could have a material effect on a property&#8217;s occupancy levels, rental rates and operating income. 

We compete with many third parties engaged in real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, hedge funds, governmental bodies and other entities. There are also other REITs with investment objectives similar to ours and others may be formed in the future. In addition, these same entities seek financing through the same channels that we do. Therefore, we compete for funding in a market where funds for real estate investment may decrease, or grow less than the underlying demand. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 362 &#32;full-time individuals employed at the Company, of which 180 &#32;full time individuals were employed at University House. 

Environmental Matters 

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, and we do not believe that our existing portfolio will 

require us to incur material expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. However, we cannot predict the impact of unforeseen environmental contingencies or new or changed laws or regulations on our properties. 

Access to Company Information 

We electronically file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The public may read and copy any of the reports that are filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800)-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

We make available, free of charge, by responding to requests addressed to our investor relations group, the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports on our website, www.inventrustproperties.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. 

