 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

Our Mission 

Our mission is to champion the world's creators. 

Our Company 

IZEA, Inc. ("IZEA", "we" or "our") operates online marketplaces that facilitate transactions between brands and influential content creators. These creators produce and distribute text, videos and photos on behalf of brands through websites, blogs and social media channels. Our technology enables transactions to be completed at scale through the management of content workflow, creator search and targeting, bidding, analytics and payment processing. Our primary source of revenue is derived from the sale of our services to our customers. 

Brands and Publishers (collectively &#8220;Brands&#8221;) engage IZEA in order to gain access to our technology and network of creators. These companies are our primary customer and where we generate the majority of our revenue. They use our technology for two primary purposes; the engagement of online influencers for sponsored social campaigns (&#8220;Sponsored Social&#8221;), or the creation of stand-alone content for distribution through their owned channels (&#8220;Content&#8221;). 

Sponsored Social. &#32;&#32; IZEA works with brands to facilitate sponsored social campaigns at scale. Sponsored Social is when a company compensates an online influencer such as a blogger or tweeter (&#8220;creators&#8221;) to share sponsored content with their social network following. This sponsored content is included within the body of the content stream, a practice also referred to as &#8220;native advertising&#8221;, and "sponsored content." We believe that we pioneered the concept of a marketplace for sponsorships on the social web in 2006 with the launch of our first platform, PayPerPost, &#32;and have focused on scaling these offerings ever since. 

Content. &#32; IZEA works with brands and publishers to augment or replace their content development efforts. These clients use our platform to produce both editorial and marketing content that is published both online and offline. Our network includes professional journalists, subject matter experts, bloggers and everyday content creators, allowing our clients to produce content ranging from complex white papers to simple product descriptions. Many of our content customers use this service to create a steady stream of posts for their corporate blog. We first began offering content services in 2015 after the acquisition of Ebyline, a leading marketplace in the content space. 

Our Platforms 

IZEA.com and The IZEA Exchange. &#32;We launched a public beta of IZEA.com powered by The &#32; IZEA Exchange &#32;( IZEAx ) in March 2014 and unveiled version 1.0 of the platform in October 2015. IZEAx &#32;is designed to provide a unified ecosystem that enables the creation of multiple types of content including blog posts, status updates, videos and photos through a wide variety of social channels including blogs, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Tumblr, among others. The system is available to our customers and partners via a self-serve portal, as a managed service or as a licensed white label. IZEAx &#32;is engineered from the ground-up to replace all of our previous platforms with an integrated offering that is improved and more efficient for the company to operate. Our intention is to focus all of our engineering resources on the IZEAx &#32;platform for the foreseeable future. We completed the sunset of our previous platforms in November 2014 and currently use IZEAx &#32;as the only automated system for managing social sponsorships. 

Ebyline. &#32; &#32;In January 2015 we acquired Ebyline, Inc. including the Ebyline technology platform. Ebyline is a content marketplace which was originally designed to replace editorial newsrooms located within newspapers with a &#8220;Virtual Newsroom.&#8221; IZEA has evolved Ebyline&#8217;s model to focus on producing content for brands in addition to newspapers by using the same technology platform. The majority of all content transactions for both brands and editorial publishers currently flow through this platform. In October 2015, IZEA introduced content profiles in IZEAx , signaling the beginning of a transition from the Ebyline technology platform to IZEAx . The current Ebyline platform and its current activity is scheduled to be transitioned completely to IZEAx &#32;in 2017. 

Our Brands and Creators 

IZEAx &#32;and Ebyline were designed to streamline transactions between brands and creators. We utilize our proprietary technology to create efficiencies and economies of scale for both parties. Each platform provides brands with access to a large 

network of creators along with complete workflow management, content control, payment processing and performance tracking. 

For sponsored social campaigns, IZEAx &#32;provides integrated Federal Trade Commission (FTC) legal compliance. In particular, the integrated FTC compliance framework requires creators to provide disclosure to their followers with respect to the sponsored nature of the content and allows advertisers to review the content for FTC compliance. If the advertiser chooses, sponsorships can be managed end-to-end without the need for interaction with one of our team members through a self-service interface. 

In addition to the above self-service platforms, we also offer turnkey account management services to manage campaigns on behalf of the customer. This includes working with brands to optimize the opportunity that is presented to creators, providing clear instructions on what is required to fill the opportunity, identifying and sourcing the creators that are the best fit for the opportunity, managing the offer and acceptance process with the creators, verifying that the creators&#8217; content, once submitted, meets the requirements of the opportunity and managing the overall campaign to meet the goals of the brand. Account managers also provide clients with progress updates on their campaign that include campaign metrics and all postings created throughout the campaign. Additionally, they assemble comprehensive campaign recaps at the conclusion of the campaign and work with the advertisers on plans for follow-up strategies after the initial campaign has ended. 

In both platforms, brands, or our account management staff acting on the brands&#8217; behalf as part of the account management services we offer, have the ability to review the creators&#8217; content to verify whether or not it conforms to the requirements of the opportunity. Our platforms provide for the ability to review creators&#8217; content prior to publishing, and all the other platforms provide for a review after the content is published. If the content does not conform, the creator is requested to make any necessary adjustments. If the creator refuses, the opportunity is deemed to have been withdrawn. Neither the brand nor our account management staff modifies creators&#8217; content without the creators&#8217; involvement and consent. 

The value proposition we offer to both brands and creators strengthens our position as a trusted partner and allows us to derive revenue from both customer bases. As more brands utilize our marketplaces, we increase the breadth and depth of monetization opportunities for creators, attracting more creators and further enhancing value for our advertisers. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we have more than 629,000 &#32;user connections from 358,000 user accounts in IZEAx . The approximate aggregate reach of those connections is 3.5 billion , which represents the total number of non-unique fans and followers of IZEAx &#32;users. Creators in our system include bloggers, leading social influencers and A-list celebrities. 

Our total number of user accounts may be higher than the number of our actual individual creators because some creators may have created multiple accounts. We define a user connection as a social account or blog that has been added to IZEAx &#32;under a user account. It is possible for one user to add as many user connections as they like, and it is common for talent managers and large publishers to add many connections under a single account. The aggregate reach number includes current and naturally expired O-Auth connections, but does not include manual disconnects. We define naturally expired O-Auth connections as a social media user authentication that has timed out for any number of reasons. Our creators currently publish sponsored content to blogs and Twitter and reach other existing platforms such as Facebook, Pinterest, Tumblr, LinkedIn, Google and Bing through syndication or sharing of that content. 

We are currently limited in our ability to service the needs of all brands and creators. We have a large number of brands and creators that we cannot currently match for sponsorship or content opportunities. We believe that IZEAx &#32;should improve our ability to more efficiently match marketplace participants by providing access to more social media channels and by offering a larger inventory of quality brands and creators. However, we are still limited by the number of brands using our platforms to bring more liquidity and transactions to the creators in the marketplace. In October 2015, we announced the public beta of SocialLinks, a new offering inside of IZEAx . SocialLinks is designed to provide creators with an unlimited ability to monetize their social channels through an affiliate marketing model which compensates them for generating sales for IZEA partners. IZEA secured a relationship with eBay for the initial launch of the program. This system remains in beta and will continue to be modified over the coming year. 

To date, we have completed over 3.5 million &#32;social sponsorship transactions for customers ranging from small local businesses to Fortune 500 companies. We consider each individual piece of content, sponsored blog post, tweet or other status update as an individual transaction so long as the creator of that content is being compensated for such post, tweet or other status update. 

&#32;&#32;We derive the majority of our revenue from brands for the use of our network of social media content creators to fulfill advertiser sponsor requests for a blog post, tweet, click or action (Sponsored Revenue). We derive the remaining portion 

of our revenue from the creation of content (Content Revenue) and from various service fees charged to advertisers and creators for services, maintenance and enhancement of their accounts (Service Fee Revenue). 

Industry Background and Trends 

Despite the inherently conversational nature of social media marketing as part of the larger digital marketing landscape, many brand budgets are currently allocated towards traditional display advertising, including banner ads and text links on social sites. While most advertisers understand the value of word of mouth marketing, peer recommendations, and product reviews, few understand how to efficiently engage social media content creators and produce content appropriately for these purposes. Those who effectively attempt an approach are quickly limited by the amount of effort required to adequately manage and measure a truly integrated campaign. 

The social sponsorship space has been limited primarily by the current inefficiencies of the market. The social media advertiser universe is large and highly fragmented among topic, quality and platform. Brands have been forced to utilize a variety of highly inefficient sources and processes to navigate the complicated landscape of sponsorship, often resulting in low returns on their time investment or worse-yet, questionable results. We believe this is largely due to advertisers and creators lacking an efficient way to identify and engage each other in the marketplace. 

At the same time, social media content creators that would like to monetize their community are faced with significant challenges in making advertisers aware of their blog, Twitter, or Facebook profile and finding quality advertisers who are motivated to sponsor them. In addition, those creators with smaller networks simply lack the individual influence and audience needed to warrant the processing of a micro-transaction. In many cases, it costs an advertiser more money to issue a check to a small creator than the value of the sponsorship payment itself. 

Further complicating the sponsorship process for both parties are FTC regulations around social media endorsements, IRS tax reporting generally applicable to anyone receiving income for services, and the associated campaign tracking required to provide compliance. While many advertisers would prefer to be &#8220;part of the conversation,&#8221; we believe the complexity and cost of individual sponsorship often deters them from doing so. 

We believe that the current challenges in social sponsorship represent a significant opportunity for us. We address these challenges with targeted, scalable marketplaces that aggregate social media content creators and advertisers. In doing so, we offer an efficient, innovative way for creators and advertisers of all sizes to find each other and complete a sponsorship transaction. 

Since our inception in 2006, we have worked diligently to establish and leverage key strengths in our business model, including: 

A culture of innovation and creativity . &#32;&#32;We believe the only way to survive and thrive in our rapidly changing world is to change ahead of it. We are in a state of constant evolution and re-invention; this is &#8220;The IZEA Way.&#8221; We have created a culture committed to innovation and creativity that challenges convention and breaks new ground. IZEA team members are protective and proud of our culture by applying its &#8220;humble, yet hungry&#8221; attitude to all facets of our business. Our people and their innovations ultimately provide us with our largest competitive advantage. 

First-mover advantage with a highly disruptive business model . &#32;&#32;We believe that by pioneering the social sponsorship space and investing heavily in innovation and marketing, we were first to develop positive rapport among creators and brands alike. This loyalty has resulted in consistent revenue growth and high levels of repeat business. 

Scalable and leverageable operations . &#32;&#32;Our business model allows revenue to be derived in a variety of ways, all of which rely on our marketplace as a hub. We intend to introduce multiple new product offerings within IZEAx without substantially increasing our operations and support expense. 

Experienced management team, board of directors and strategic advisors . &#32;&#32;Our management team includes not only a highly experienced team of entrepreneurs and executives from the digital media, technology and entertainment industries, but also outstanding strategic advisory board members who are experts in social media and integrated marketing campaigns. See &#8220;Management&#8221; for details. 

Our Growth Strategy 

After nine years of working in and developing the social sponsorship category, we believe our business model is market-tested and ready for growth. Our development efforts have included assembling a diverse and experienced senior management team and advisory board, launching and optimizing our proprietary marketplaces, developing a cross-platform sales force and refining our message to the market. Key elements of our strategy to accelerate revenue growth and continue product development include: 

An integrated approach . &#32;&#32;We believe we are the only company that can currently provide both content production and sponsored social at scale. It is our opinion that this provides a significant advantage for us in the market and we have already seen strong sales response to proposals that include both content and sponsored social. Moving forward we believe that content revenues will play a significant role in IZEA&#8217;s growth. 

Large client services team . &#32;&#32;We expect the growth of our client development team to be the primary driver of near-term revenues. We have been developing a comprehensive on-boarding and on-going education curriculum that led to record bookings in 2015. We intend to add additional client development personnel who receive a commission for meeting sales targets to more effectively service clients throughout North America and Canada. The majority of these team members will be located in our headquarters in Winter Park, Florida and will conduct sales activities through phone, email and videoconferencing. 

Strategic partnerships . &#32;&#32;We continue to develop strategic partnerships and reseller agreements with companies that can provide additional growth in our base of creators and advertisers. IZEAx &#32;is designed to be easily &#8220;white labeled,&#8221; allowing partners to operate their own &#8220;node&#8221; on the exchange. IZEAx &#32;is also designed to be resold by partners that do not require a custom-branded solution. As of December 31, 2015 , we have signed 29 &#32;partners, including The Marketing Arm, Meredith and Viacom. 

Product innovation . &#32;&#32;We will continue to recruit additional engineering and product innovation team members to enhance IZEAx &#32;to develop new technology ideas within this platform that complement our mission as a company. In 2016 and 2017, we intend to focus our efforts on completing the Ebyline integration into IZEAx , developing our mobile app and unlocking additional revenue generating opportunities utilizing our existing platforms and users. 

Complementary acquisitions . &#32;&#32;We continually seek to identify and acquire companies, technologies and assets to add to our portfolio of software services that will drive additional near and long-term revenue. In July 2011, we acquired Germany&#8217;s Magpie Twitter advertising network that included approximately 12,000 advertisers and 20,000 Twitter creators in 143 countries. In December 2012, we acquired FeaturedUsers, one of the first advertising networks specifically designed to help Twitter users grow their followers. In January 2015, we acquired Ebyline, Inc., as described below. 

Ebyline Acquisition 

On January 30, 2015, we purchased all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Ebyline, Inc. (&#8220;Ebyline&#8221;), pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 27, 2015, by and among IZEA, Ebyline and the stockholders of Ebyline. The aggregate consideration payable by us was to be an amount up to $8,850,000, including a cash payment at closing of $1,200,000, a stock issuance valued at $250,000 paid on July 30, 2015, $1,877,064 in two equal installments of $938,532 on the first and second anniversaries of the closing, and up to $5,500,000 in contingent performance payments, subject to Ebyline meeting certain revenue targets for each of the three years ending December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017. The $1,877,064 in annual payments and the $5,500,000 in contingent performance payments may be made in cash or common stock, at our option. The performance payments are to be made only if Ebyline achieves at least 90% of Content Revenue targets of $17,000,000 in 2015, $27,000,000 in 2016 and $32,000,000 in 2017. If Ebyline achieves at least 90%, but less than 100% of the Content Revenue targets, the performance payments owed of $1,800,000, $1,800,000 and $1,900,000 for each of the three years ending December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, will be subject to adjustment. Anything below 90% of the Content Revenue targets will not be eligible for any performance payment. Based on actual results for 2015 and our current projections for Content Revenue for 2016-2017, we do not believe that these targets will be met within each of the respective years. As a result, we do not believe that we will be required to make any of the $5,500,000 in contingent performance payments and we currently expect that the total consideration to be paid for the Ebyline acquisition will be $3,327,064. 

Future cash payments and common stock issuances may be withheld to satisfy indemnifiable claims made by us with respect to any misrepresentations or breaches of warranty under the Stock Purchase Agreement by Ebyline or the stockholders of Ebyline within two years after the closing of the acquisition. 

Based in Los Angeles, California, Ebyline operates an online marketplace that enables publishers to access a network of over 15,000 content creators ranging from writers to illustrators in 84 countries. Over 2,000 fully vetted individuals in the Ebyline network have professional journalism credentials with backgrounds at well-known media outlets. Ebyline&#8217;s proprietary workflow is utilized by leading media organizations to manage the entire customer content creation process - from creator selection through electronic payment. In addition to publishers, Ebyline is leveraged by brands to produce custom branded content for use on their owned and operated sites, as well as third party content marketing and native advertising efforts. The Ebyline technology platform has been used by publishers and brands to manage over 200,000 content projects. 

Customers 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had more than 629,000 &#32;user connections from 358,000 user accounts in IZEAx . The approximate aggregate reach of those connections is &#32; 3.5 billion , which represents the total number of non-unique fans and followers of IZEAx &#32;users. Creators in our system include bloggers, leading social influencers and A-list celebrities. 

In the case of our managed brands, we typically enter into a master agreement. Under the master agreement, the brand may submit one or more insertion orders pursuant to which we provide services for production of requested content specifically for the brand or for advertising through our creator's network of social media connections. The master agreement, according to our standard terms, is terminable by us or our customers upon 30 days prior written notice or immediately if a material breach has occurred that is not promptly cured. Each party indemnifies the other with regard to various representations made by such party, including the advertiser's representations that its content does not violate any law, or infringe any intellectual property right of another, is not false or deceptive, or defamatory or libelous, and is free of viruses and other computer programming that could damage any system data. Fees under the master agreement are typically payable within 30 days after the date of our invoice in accordance with the terms agreed to in the applicable insertion order. The master agreement additionally provides for standard service disclaimers and limitations of liability for our benefit, as well as a reciprocal confidentiality provision. We also enter into agreements with &#8220;self-service" customers who agree to our terms of service available on the applicable online platform when they create their account. These self-service customers do not separately enter into a master agreement with us. 

We provide services to customers in multiple industry segments, including consumer products, retail/eTail, technology and travel. Our customers are predominantly located in the United States followed by Canada, India, the United Kingdom and over 150 other countries. Our business serves advertising and public relations agencies, as well as brands and businesses directly. In many cases, social media marketing dollars flow through the advertising or public relations agency, even when we have a direct relationship with the brand. 

Below is a list of our customers who exceeded 5% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014: 

Customer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Journal Media Group 

&#160; 

14.03 

% 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

% 

eBay, Inc. 

&#160; 

8.06 

% 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

% 

Triad Retail Media 

&#160; 

2.18 

% 

&#160; 

9.97 

% 

Sales and Marketing 

We primarily sell social sponsorship and content campaigns through our sales team, our self-service platforms and, to a lesser extent, by utilizing distribution relationships such as resellers, affiliates and white label partners. We target regional, national and global brands and advertising agencies in the following ways: 

Client Development Team. &#32;We have a client development team each of whom is assigned a geographic region or specific brands, primarily within the United States. The team members are responsible for identifying and managing sales opportunities in their respective target areas. 

Resellers and White Label Partners. &#32;We have 29 &#32;independent resellers and distribution partners who are responsible for selling one or more of our platforms under an independent contractor relationship. We maintain two types of reseller relationships: resellers and white label partners. Resellers focus their efforts on selling a variety of brands throughout the United States. White label partners are complementary relationships that add additional advertisers and creators to our network. We intend to increase our number of resellers and white label partners under the IZEAx &#32;technology platform. 

Self-Service Platforms. &#32; IZEAx &#32;and Ebyline &#32;were developed as self-service marketplaces to enable brands, advertisers and agencies of all sizes to independently access our network of social media content creators and journalists and implement 

their own social sponsorship campaigns or request the creation of specific content. Self-service customers extend our global reach and increase deal flow. 

Referral Program. &#32;&#32;As more brand marketers contribute opportunities into our marketplaces, we believe we will increase the breadth and depth of the monetization value offered to our creators, attracting more creators to enroll into our platforms and thereby enhancing the value of our platforms to future brand advertisers. IZEAx &#32;contains a program designed to compensate social media content creators for referring other creators to join these platforms. In these programs, we incur the cost to pay a referral fee to the referrer equal to 5%-15% of the referee's earnings for up to a two-year period. Directly trackable creator referrals are new creator signups that we receive as the result of a current creator sharing a unique tracking link to our platform. The link allows us to determine how a new creator learned about our platform. We paid referral fees to creators approximating $ 46,000 &#32;and $ 52,000 &#32;in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These programs amplify our marketing dollars and decrease the investment required to attract new creators. 

Industry Acumen. &#32;&#32;Our team possesses a strong marketing background. We focus our corporate marketing efforts on increasing brand awareness, communicating each of our platform advantages, generating qualified leads for our sales team and growing our social media creator network. Our corporate marketing plan is designed to continually elevate awareness of our brand and generate demand for social sponsorship. We rely on a number of channels in this area, including tradeshows, third party social media platforms (e.g., Facebook and Twitter), IZEA-hosted community events, paid searches, public relations and our corporate websites. 

Revenue Model 

We derive revenue from three sources: revenue from a brand when it pays for a social media publisher or influencer such as a blogger or tweeter ("creators") to share sponsored content with their social network audience ("Sponsored Revenue"), revenue when a publisher or company purchases custom branded content for use on its owned and operated sites, as well as third party content marketing and native advertising efforts ("Content Revenue") and revenue derived from various service and license fees charged to users of our platforms ("Service Fee Revenue"). 

We earn Sponsored Revenue either on a per post or action basis from opportunities created by advertisers using our platforms or on an advertising campaign basis where we manage the entire campaign for our customers, often using multiple platforms to accomplish a full social media campaign. Advertisers may prepay for services by placing a deposit in their account with us. The deposits are typically paid by the advertiser through the use of checks, wire transfers or credit cards. Deposits are recorded as unearned revenue until earned as described below. Typically, for each dollar an advertiser spends with us for sponsored services, approximately 50% of it goes to our social media content creators. Celebrity creators typically retain a higher percentage of each transaction due to the higher base price associated with these sponsorships. 

Sponsored Revenue is recognized and considered earned after an advertiser's sponsored content is posted through IZEAx &#32;and shared through a creator's social network for a requisite period of time. The requisite period ranges from 3 days &#32;for a tweet to 30 days &#32;for a blog, video or other form of content. Revenue is only recorded upon successful completion of these actions. If the action was not successful, the advertiser's account would not be charged and no revenue would be recorded. IZ EAx &#32;can be activated and used in a self-service fashion or with the assistance of our account management team. Management fees related to Sponsored Revenue from advertising campaigns managed by us are recognized ratably over the term of the campaign which may range from a few days to months. Sponsored Revenue accounted for 60% &#32;and 92% &#32;of our total revenue during the twelve months &#32;ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 

Content Revenue is recognized when the content is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Content revenue accounted for 39% &#32;and 0% &#32;of our total revenue during the twelve months &#32;ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 

Service Fee Revenue results when fees are charged to customers primarily related to subscription fees for different levels of service within a platform, licensing fees for white-label use of IZEAx , early cash-out fees if a creator wishes to take proceeds earned for services from their account when the account balance is below certain minimum balance thresholds and inactivity fees for dormant accounts. We set certain minimum cash-out balance thresholds, typically $50, to encourage creators to help us better manage the time, Paypal fees and administrative costs that are associated with each cash-out by creators. Once a creator's account balance exceeds the minimum balance, they can request to be paid without incurring a fee. Service Fee Revenue is recognized immediately when the service is performed or at the time an account becomes dormant or is cashed out. Service Fee Revenue for subscription or licensing fees are recognized straight-line over the term of service. Self-service advertisers must prepay for services by placing a deposit in their account with the Company. The deposits are typically paid by the advertiser via credit card. Advertisers who use us to manage their social advertising campaigns or content requests may prepay for services or request credit terms. Payments received or billings in advance of services are recorded as unearned 

revenue until earned as described above. Service Fee Revenue accounted for 1% &#32;and 8% &#32;of our total revenue during the twelve months &#32;ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 

As IZEAx &#32;continues to gain adoption from our advertisers, creators and partners in future periods, we anticipate additional forms of revenue streams including subscription fees, listing fees, licensing fees and sponsored search fees as a result of new functionality built into the platform. Additionally, we began reporting Content Revenue after January 2015 as a result of our acquisition of Ebyline. 

We were able to achieve gross margins on all our products of approximately 40% &#32;and 66% &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. As part of our commitment to increase shareholder value, we are constantly seeking methods to further increase margins by implementing technology advancements and adjusting our revenue mix to focus on higher margin opportunities. The mix of sales between our higher margin Sponsored Revenue and our lower margin Content Revenue (particularly the self-service workflow portion of this revenue) has a significant affect on our overall gross profit percentage. Additionally, the addition of white label partners to IZEAx will translate into lower margins on our Sponsored Revenue. White label partners receive a percentage of each transaction generated by users within their system. As a result of the changes in our sales mix, we expect that our margins will average 38% to 41% in future years. 

Technology 

IZEAx &#32;spans multiple social networks, blogs and YouTube. We aggregate our creators in IZEAx &#32;which allows us to create scale and targeting for our brands. We provide the ability to target our creators based on a variety of software rules and filters. We provide self-service platforms that service all business types and sizes. Unlike traditional public relations, advertisers only pay for completed posts. We provide trackable results by automatically embedding tracking links and pixels, as well as support, for third-party tracking (such as DART). We also provide dashboards for real-time reporting, providing immediate feedback. 

Privacy and Security 

We are committed to protecting the privacy, reputations and dignity of our advertisers and creators. Accordingly, we have invested heavily in many areas to prevent the misuse of information that we collect. We do not misuse personally identifiable information that we collect and we use reasonable and suitable physical, electronic and managerial safeguards to protect such information. 

Product Development 

Our product development team is responsible for platform and infrastructure development, application development, user interface and application design, enterprise connectivity, Internet applications and design, quality assurance, documentation and release management. One of our core strengths is our knowledge of and experience in launching and operating scalable social media marketplaces. Our product development expenses, consisting primarily of salaries paid to development personnel and included in general and administrative expenses, were approximately $1,942,000 &#32;and $964,000 &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 

Throughout 2013 and the first quarter of 2014, we developed our new web-based advertising exchange platform, IZEAx . This platform is being utilized both internally and externally to facilitate native advertising campaigns on a greater scale. We began adding features and additional functionality to this platform in 2015 and will continue throughout 2016. These new features will enable our platform to facilitate the contracting, workflow and delivery of direct content. We incurred and capitalized software development costs of $452,571 &#32;and $206,529 &#32;in our balance sheet during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. 

Our team believes that constant innovation is the only way to achieve long-term growth. We intend to continue to invest in the creation of new technology additions that complement our core offerings. 

Competition 

We face competition from multiple companies in the social sponsorship industry. Direct and indirect competitors in the social sponsorship space include Facebook, Glam Media, Twitter, BlogHer, TapInfluence and Collective Bias. In addition, there are a number of agencies, public relations firms and niche consultancies that provide social media programs and conduct manual influencer outreach programs. 

Competition for advertising placements among current and future suppliers of Internet navigational and informational services, high traffic websites and social sponsorship providers, as well as competition with other media for native advertising placements, could result in significant price competition, declining margins and reductions in advertising revenue. In addition, as we continue our efforts to expand the scope of our services with IZEAx , we may compete with a greater number of other companies across an increasing range of different services, including in vertical markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition and other areas. If existing or future competitors develop or offer products or services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected. 

We also compete with traditional advertising media such as direct mail, television, radio, cable and print for a share of advertisers' total advertising budgets. Many current and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, greater access to advertising space on high-traffic websites, and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources. 

Proprietary Rights 

Proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. 

We currently own 57 trademark registrations and applications. In the United States, we own 23 trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), including "Blogger's Choice Awards," "Champion the Creators," "Connecting Creators and Brands," "FanAds," "Get Everyone Talking," "InPostLinks," "IZEA," "IZEA Exchange," "IZEAx," "Native Ad Exchange," "PayPerPost," "Postie," "Selective Syndication," "SocialSpark," "SoundAmp," "Sponsored Music," "Sponsored Social," "Sponsorship Marketplace," "Staree," "The Creator MarketPlace," and "We Reward (Design)." Further, we have acquired registrations for "Ebyline" and "Virtual Newsroom." We also own an International Registration for the "Izea" mark, along with foreign registrations for "Izea" in Australia, New Zealand, and Norway. 

In addition to these registered marks, we currently have 4 pending foreign applications for the mark "Izea" in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, and the European Union, as well as 25 trademark applications pending in the United States, with the intention of filing additional applications in both the U.S. and foreign countries where we have a bona fide commercial interest. 

The pending applications in the United States that have been successfully prosecuted, not challenged by any third-parties, and allowed for registration by the USPTO in due course are "Community Rank," "Connecting Brands and Creators," "ContentAmp," "Creators Choice Awards," "Influence Rank," "Influence Upfront," "InRank," "Platform Rank," and "Total Social Value." The remaining 17 pending applications, namely, "Community Rank," " ContentMarketing.com ," "Content Rank," "LinkFinder," "Promoted Post," "ShareMonitor," "Social Media Rank," "Sponsored Action," "Sponsored Car," "Sponsored Chat," "Sponsored Distribution," "Sponsored Party," "Sponsored Ride," "Sponsored Snap," "Sponsored Stream," "Sponsored Syndication," and "The Content MarketPlace"were filed in 2015 and are still pending at the USPTO. Even if these applications are approved by the USPTO, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the registrations since any third-party with a concern will have an opportunity to challenge the applications during the 30 day opposition period prescribed by the USPTO. If a third party is successful in its challenge, use of the marks will be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with the opposing party that may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms. 

We also own approximately 470 domain names related to the various aspects of IZEA&#8217;s products and services. 

We actively protect our intellectual property rights through the prosecution of patent applications covering the important features of our IZEA Exchange platform and the other innovations we continue to pioneer. We have five pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications covering various methods, systems, and computer programs related to, among other things: two-way bidding associated with an advertisement opportunity; an online marketplace for the creation and modification of content; and an online marketplace for posting and search of content associated with geopositional information. We also have pending foreign patent applications in Australia, Brazil, Canada and the European Union directed to two-way bidding associated with an advertisement opportunity. 

We cannot provide any assurance that our proprietary rights with respect to our products or services will be viable or have value in the future since the validity, enforceability and type of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. 

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while 

we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and effective copyright, trademark, trade secret and patent protection may not be available in those jurisdictions. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate to protect us from the infringement or misappropriation of such rights by others. 

Further, in recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly in the software and Internet-related industries. We can and have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our products and services overlap with competitive offerings. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and could divert management's attention from operating our company. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial award of damages and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. In the United States and abroad, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties are currently being tested by a number of claims. These regulations and laws may involve taxation, tariffs, creator privacy, data protection, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not entirely clear how existing laws which govern issues such as property ownership, taxation, export or import matters and personal privacy apply to the Internet, as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. In addition, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our platforms or may even attempt to completely block access to our platforms. Accordingly, adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our business. 

Many states have passed laws requiring notification to subscribers when there is a security breach of personally identifiable data. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concerning data protection. In addition, data protection laws in Europe and other jurisdictions outside the United States can be more restrictive than those within the United States, and the interpretation and application of these laws are still uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change and/or abandon certain of our then-existing data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for linking to third-party websites that contain materials which infringe copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 

We, as any e-commerce service provider are subject to Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and various state rules and regulations on advertising and marketing on the Internet. In certain cases, we are retained by advertisers to manage their advertising campaigns through our platforms, thereby increasing our exposure as not only the service provider but also the medium through which advertisements are broadcast. In addition to those requirements, the advertisers, creators, and agencies that use our platforms are subject to specific guidance and regulations regarding online advertising, such as the FTC's Dot Com Disclosures - Information about Online Advertising &#32;and its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising (known as the Guides) that were updated and reissued by the FTC in 2013, and further clarified in 2015. Each of the foregoing are sub-categories that have been taken up by the FTC under the FTC Act to prevent "unfair or deceptive acts and practices" within advertising. These new Guides, for example, significantly extend the scope of potential liability associated with the use of testimonials and endorsements, including injecting endorsement requirements into advertising methods such as blogging. In particular, the Guides provide that bloggers must always disclose the material connection between the blogger and the brand, such as if they received consideration for blogging about a particular product, service, brand or the like, whether the consideration comprises something tangible (i.e., cash, objects that are provided to them at no cost, even for testing purposes) or intangible such as accolades and more prominent future blogging opportunities. In addition, the creator/blogger must not make claims about the product or service he or she is discussing that go beyond what the brand could say about the product or service. The Guides further provide that the advertiser should ensure that its bloggers are provided guidance and training needed to ensure their claims, statements and representations are truthful, transparent and properly substantiated. In the event a creator, blogger or advertiser should fail to comply with the Dot Com Disclosures, the Guides or any other FTC rule, regulation 

or policy, which may be manifest by making deceptive, misleading or unsubstantiated claims and representations, failing to disclose a sponsorship relationship or otherwise, then various parties related to the advertising campaign (including the service provider of the platform over which the campaign is managed) may be subject to liability as a result of such non-compliance. In the event it was found that we failed to comply with&#8224; the FTC Act or state advertising rules, it could result in the potential imposition of equitable redress or penalties that could include monetary damages, a modification of certain business practices, or an order to cease our operations. 

More generally, if there is negative consumer perception and mistrust of the practice of undisclosed compensation to creators to endorse the advertisers' specific products, then this could result in a reduction by advertisers in the use of social media marketing platforms like ours as a means for advertising which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 

&#160; 

We comply with the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive with regard to data we collect from users located in the European Union. We do not transfer data collected from users located in the European Union outside of the European Union without first obtaining their express consent. We are currently monitoring potential changes to the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive to ensure that we are compliant with relevant requirements when and to the extent they are implemented. 

As a governing member of a leading marketing and advertising industry association, the Word of Mouth Marketing Association (WOMMA), we are committed to promoting ethical social sponsorship practices and have established codes of ethics for our platforms which include one or more of the following: 

Mandatory Disclosure. &#32;&#32;We mandate disclosure of the sponsored relationship between the advertiser and creator. A sponsorship cannot be published through the platform unless a phrase or paragraph disclosing the sponsored relationship is included. For example, a creator is required to select one of a number of disclosure phrases such as &#8220;sponsored,&#8221; &#8220;advertisement&#8221; or &#8220;ad&#8221; prior to the publication of a tweet. Other social sponsorship forms may be monitored through a Disclosure Audit tool that monitors posts on an ongoing basis to make sure they continue to include disclosure after the initial posts are approved. Failure to disclose the sponsored relationship is a violation of our terms of service, which may result in the withholding of payment for the sponsorship and the creator being removed from our network. 

Freedom of Choice. &#32;&#32;Creators are free to choose which sponsorships to publish. Our platforms do not auto-inject an advertiser's message into an influencer's social media network. 

Authentic Voice. We encourage honesty of opinion in the selection of sponsorships by a creator and similarly we encourage advertisers to create opportunities that allow the creator to write the sponsorship in their own words, provided that a creator always adheres to our terms of service and code of ethics which includes disclosing their sponsored relationships at all times while using any of the platforms. 

Transparency of Identity. Our platforms are designed to be open, safe environment for our advertisers, creators and users. In fact, we do not cloak the identities of advertisers or creators. Both parties involved in a potential transaction can see each other's profiles and make informed decisions before engaging with each other. 

Pre-Publication Advertiser Review. &#32;Advertisers have the ability to review their sponsored content before it is published and to request a change to the sponsored content prior to publication in the case of factual inaccuracies. 

Reporting Violations. &#32;We have zero tolerance for violations of our code of ethics and encourage the reporting of violations through a special page on our websites dedicated to reporting violations. If violations are reported, they are promptly investigated by us and in appropriate cases, advertisers, creators and users are removed from our network and prohibited from using our sites. In addition, we take an active role in reporting spam accounts to Twitter and Facebook. 

In addition to the compliance and monitoring programs described above, we have created an FTC Survival Guide for our platform users that is available on our corporate website. We also believe, and have subsequently included requirements within our code of ethics, based on positions taken by certain federal courts and the FTC, that communications and messages disseminated by creators through social media networks are subject to and must comply at all times with CAN-SPAM Act (Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act) requirements. 

To date, we have not been materially impacted by the rules governing messaging over social media networks and social sponsorship, including the CAN-SPAM Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991. However, we cannot 

predict the impact of future regulations on us, our advertisers or our creators that use our platforms or the impact of attempts to circumvent our mechanisms that are designed to ensure compliance. 

Employees 

As of March 18, 2016 , we had a total of 113 full-time employees, including 77 in sales and marketing, 24 in product engineering and 12 in administration and finance. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced any work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineers, graphic designers, computer scientists, sales and marketing and senior management personnel. 

Corporate Information 

&#160; 

Our executive offices are located at 480 N. Orlando Avenue, Suite 200, Winter Park, FL 32789 and our telephone number is (407) 674-6911. We maintain a corporate website at http://corp.izea.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investors section of our website, or through http:// www.sec.gov . Information on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on Form10-K or any other report we file or furnish with the SEC. &#32;&#32; &#32; 

Investors and others should note that we use social media to communicate with our subscribers and the public about our company, our services, new product developments and other matters. Any information that we consider to be material to an evaluation of our company will be included in filings on the SEC EDGAR website, and may also be disseminated using our investor relations website (http://corp.izea.com) and press releases. However, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to also review our social media channels @izea on Twitter and izeainc on Facebook. The information contained in these social media channels is not part of, and is not incorporated into or included in, this annual report on Form 10-K. 

&#160; 

