 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS 

General 

Johnson Controls International plc, headquartered in Cork, Ireland, is a global diversified technology and multi industrial leader serving a wide range of customers in more than 150 countries. The Company creates intelligent buildings, efficient energy solutions, integrated infrastructure and next generation transportation systems that work seamlessly together to deliver on the promise of smart cities and communities. The Company is committed to helping our customers win and creating greater value for all of its stakeholders through strategic focus on our buildings and energy growth platforms. 

Johnson Controls was originally incorporated in the state of Wisconsin in 1885 as Johnson Electric Service Company to manufacture, install and service automatic temperature regulation systems for buildings. The Company was renamed to Johnson Controls, Inc. in 1974. In 1978, the Company acquired Globe-Union, Inc., a Wisconsin-based manufacturer of automotive batteries for both the replacement and original equipment markets. The Company entered the automotive seating industry in 1985 with the acquisition of Michigan-based Hoover Universal, Inc. In 2005, the Company acquired York International, a global supplier of heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment and services. In 2014, the Company acquired Air Distribution Technologies, Inc. (ADTi), one of the largest independent providers of air distribution and ventilation products in North America. 

The Company is going through a multi-year portfolio transformation. Included in this transformation are several strategic transactions including the divestiture of its Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) business and the contribution of its Automotive Experience Interiors business to the newly created joint venture with Yanfeng Automotive Trim Systems, both of which occurred during fiscal 2015. On October 1, 2015, the Company formed a joint venture with Hitachi to expand its Buildings product offerings. 

On September 2, 2016, Johnson Controls, Inc. ("JCI Inc.") and Tyco International plc (&#8220;Tyco&#8221;) completed their combination pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;), dated as of January 24, 2016, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 1, 2016, by and among JCI Inc., Tyco and certain other parties named therein, including Jagara Merger Sub LLC, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco (&#8220;Merger Sub&#8221;). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on September 2, 2016, Merger Sub merged with and into JCI Inc., with JCI Inc. being the surviving corporation in the merger and a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of Tyco (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;). Following the Merger, Tyco changed its name to &#8220;Johnson Controls International plc.&#8221; The merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Accounting 

Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, "Business Combinations." JCI Inc. was the accounting acquirer for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial statements of JCI Inc. for periods prior to this transaction are considered to be the historic financial statements of the Company. Refer to Note 2, "Merger Transaction," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

The acquisition of Tyco brings together best-in-class product, technology and service capabilities across controls, fire, security, HVAC, power solutions and energy storage, to serve various end-markets including large institutions, commercial buildings, retail, industrial, small business and residential. The combination of the Tyco and Johnson Controls buildings platforms is expected to create immediate opportunities for near-term growth through cross-selling, complementary branch and channel networks, and expanded global reach for established businesses. The new Company is also expected to benefit by combining innovation capabilities and pipelines involving new products, advanced solutions for smart buildings and cities, value-added services driven by advanced data and analytics and connectivity between buildings and energy storage through infrastructure integration. 

On October 31, 2016, the Company completed the spin-off of its Automotive Experience business by way of the transfer of the Automotive Experience Business from Johnson Controls to Adient plc and the issuance of ordinary shares of Adient directly to holders of Johnson Controls ordinary shares on a pro rata basis. Prior to the open of business on October 31, 2016, each of the Company's shareholders received one ordinary share of Adient plc for every 10 ordinary shares of Johnson Controls held as of the close of business on October 19, 2016, the record date for the distribution. Company shareholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Adient, if any. Following the separation and distribution, Adient plc is now an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol "ADNT." The Company did not retain any equity interest in Adient plc. 

The Building Efficiency business is a global market leader in designing, producing, marketing and installing integrated heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, building management systems, controls, security and mechanical equipment. In addition, the Buildings business provides technical services and energy management consulting. The Company also provides residential air conditioning and heating systems and industrial refrigeration products. 

The Tyco business is a global market leader in providing security products and services, fire detection and suppression products and services, and life and safety products. Tyco designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems and fire detection and suppression systems. In addition, Tyco manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products, including intrusion security, anti-theft devices, breathing apparatus and access control and video management systems. The products and services are for commercial, industrial, retail, residential, small business, institutional and governmental customers worldwide. 

The Automotive Experience business is one of the world&#8217;s largest automotive suppliers, providing innovative seating and interior systems through our design and engineering expertise. The Company&#8217;s technologies extend into virtually every area of the interior including seating, door systems, floor consoles and instrument panels. Customers include most of the world&#8217;s major automakers. 

The Power Solutions business is a leading global supplier of lead-acid automotive batteries for virtually every type of passenger car, light truck and utility vehicle. The Company serves both automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and the general vehicle battery aftermarket. The Company also supplies advanced battery technologies to power start-stop, hybrid and electric vehicles. 

Financial Information About Business Segments 

Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 280, "Segment Reporting," establishes the standards for reporting information about segments in financial statements. In applying the criteria set forth in ASC 280, the Company has determined that it has eight reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. The Company&#8217;s eight reportable segments are presented in the context of its three primary businesses - Buildings, Automotive Experience and Power Solutions. Refer to Note 19, "Segment Information," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial information about business segments. For the purpose of the following discussion of the Company&#8217;s businesses, the five Buildings reportable segments and the two Automotive Experience reportable segments are presented together due to their similar customers and the similar nature of their products, production processes and distribution channels. 

Products/Systems and Services 

Buildings 

Building Efficiency 

Building Efficiency is a global leader in delivering integrated control systems, mechanical equipment, products and services designed to improve the comfort, safety and energy efficiency of non-residential buildings and residential properties with operations in 53 countries. Revenues come from technical services, and the replacement and upgrade of HVAC controls and mechanical equipment in the existing buildings market, where the Company&#8217;s large base of current customers leads to repeat business, as well as with installing controls and equipment during the construction of new buildings. Customer relationships often span entire building lifecycles. 

Building Efficiency sells its control systems, mechanical equipment and services primarily through the Company&#8217;s extensive global network of sales and service offices. Some building controls, products and mechanical systems are sold to distributors of air-conditioning, refrigeration and commercial heating systems throughout the world. In fiscal 2016 , approximately 72% of Building Efficiency&#8217;s sales were derived from HVAC products and installed control systems for construction and retrofit markets, including 11% of total sales related to new commercial construction. Approximately 28% of its sales in fiscal 2016 &#32;originated from its service offerings. In fiscal 2016 , Building Efficiency accounted for 35% of the Company&#8217;s consolidated net sales. 

The Company&#8217;s systems include York&#174; chillers, industrial refrigeration products, air handlers and other HVAC mechanical equipment that provide heating and cooling in non-residential buildings. The Metasys&#174; control system monitors and integrates HVAC equipment with other critical building systems to maximize comfort while reducing energy and operating costs. The Company also produces air conditioning and heating equipment and products, including Titus&#174; and Ruskin&#174; brands, for the residential market. As the largest global supplier of HVAC technical services, Building Efficiency staffs, optimizes and repairs building systems made by the Company and its competitors. The Company offers a wide range of solutions such as performance contracting under which guaranteed energy savings are used by the customer to fund project costs over a number of years. 

Tyco 

Tyco is a leading global provider of security products and services, fire detection and suppression products and services and life safety products. The business offers a broad portfolio of products and services, sold under well-known brands such as Tyco, SimplexGrinnell, Sensormatic, Wormald, Ansul, Simplex, Scott and ADT (other than in the U.S., Canada and Korea), and serves security, fire detection and suppression and life safety needs across commercial, industrial, retail, small business, institutional and governmental markets, as well as non-U.S. residential markets. Tyco holds market-leading positions in large, fragmented industries and believes it is well positioned to leverage its global footprint, deep industry experience, strong customer relationships and innovative technologies to expand its business in both developed and emerging markets. Tyco shares the ADT&#174; trademark with The ADT Corporation and operates under a brand governance agreement between the two companies. 

As the merger with Tyco was completed on September 2, 2016, the business accounted for only 2% of the Company&#8217;s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016 . 

Automotive Experience 

Automotive Experience designs and manufactures interior products and systems for passenger cars and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles. The business produces automotive interior systems for OEMs and operates approximately 243 wholly- and majority-owned manufacturing or assembly plants, with operations in 33 countries worldwide. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, the Automotive Experience Interiors business is predominantly in an unconsolidated partially-owned affiliate. Additionally, the business has other partially-owned affiliates in Asia, Europe, North America and South America. 

Automotive Experience products and systems include complete seating systems and interior components, including instrument panels, floor consoles, and door systems. In fiscal 2016 , Automotive Experience accounted for 45% of the Company&#8217;s consolidated net sales. 

The business operates assembly plants that supply automotive OEMs with complete seats on a "just-in-time/in-sequence" basis. Seats are assembled to specific order and delivered on a predetermined schedule directly to an automotive assembly line. Certain of the business&#8217;s other automotive interior systems are also supplied on a "just-in-time/in-sequence" basis. Foam, metal and plastic 

seating components, seat covers, seat mechanisms and other components are shipped to these plants from the business&#8217;s production facilities or outside suppliers. 

Power Solutions 

Power Solutions services both automotive OEMs and the battery aftermarket by providing energy storage technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise. The Company is the largest producer of lead-acid automotive batteries in the world, producing and distributing approximately 152 million lead-acid batteries annually in approximately 69 wholly- and majority-owned manufacturing or assembly plants, distribution centers and sales offices in 19 countries worldwide. Investments in new product and process technology have expanded product offerings to absorbent glass mat (AGM) and enhanced flooded battery (EFB) technologies that power start-stop vehicles, as well as lithium-ion battery technology for certain hybrid and electric vehicles. The business has also invested to develop sustainable lead and poly recycling operations in the North American and European markets. Approximately 75% of unit sales worldwide in fiscal 2016 &#32;were to the automotive replacement market, with the remaining sales to the OEM market. 

Power Solutions accounted for 18% of the Company&#8217;s fiscal 2016 &#32;consolidated net sales. Batteries and key components are manufactured at wholly- and majority-owned plants in North America, South America, Asia and Europe. 

Competition 

Buildings 

Building Efficiency 

The Building Efficiency business conducts its operations through thousands of individual contracts that are either negotiated or awarded on a competitive basis. Key factors in the award of contracts include system and service performance, quality, price, design, reputation, technology, application engineering capability and construction or project management expertise. Competitors for HVAC equipment and controls in the residential and non-residential marketplace include many regional, national and international providers; larger competitors include Honeywell International, Inc.; Siemens Building Technologies, an operating group of Siemens AG; Schneider Electric SA; Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation; Trane Incorporated, a subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited; Daikin Industries, Ltd.; Lennox International, Inc.; GC Midea Holding Co, Ltd.; Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. and Greenheck Fan Corporation. In addition to HVAC equipment, Building Efficiency competes in a highly fragmented HVAC services market, which is dominated by local providers. The loss of any individual contract would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

Tyco 

The Tyco business operates in markets that are generally highly competitive and fragmented with a small number of large, global firms and thousands of smaller regional and local companies; larger competitors include: Siemens Building Technologies, an operating group of Siemens AG; Honeywell International, Inc., Stanley Black &#38; Decker, Inc., 3M Company and United Technologies Corporation. Competition is based on price, quality, specialized product capacity, breadth of product line, training, support and delivery, with the relative importance of these factors varying depending on the project complexity, product line, the local market and other factors. Tyco's systems integration capabilities, which allows it to offer global solutions to customers that fully integrate the business's security and/or fire offerings into existing information technology networks, business operations and management tools, and process automation and control systems, sets it apart from all but a small number of other large, global competitors. 

Automotive Experience 

The Automotive Experience business faces competition from other automotive suppliers and, with respect to certain products, from the automobile OEMs who produce or have the capability to produce certain products the business supplies. The automotive supply industry competes on the basis of technology, quality, reliability of supply and price. Design, engineering and product planning are increasingly important factors. Independent suppliers that represent the principal Automotive Experience Seating competitors include Lear Corporation, Faurecia SA and Magna International Inc. The Automotive Experience Interiors business primarily competes with Faurecia SA, Grupo Antolin - Irausa SA and International Automotive Components Group SA. 

Power Solutions 

Power Solutions is the principal supplier of batteries to many of the largest merchants in the battery aftermarket, including Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, Robert Bosch GmbH, DAISA S.A., Costco, NAPA, O&#8217;Reilly/CSK, Interstate Battery System of America, Sears, Roebuck &#38; Co. and Wal-Mart stores. Automotive batteries are sold throughout the world under private labels and under the Company&#8217;s brand names (Optima&#174;, Varta&#174;, LTH&#174; and Heliar&#174;) to automotive replacement battery retailers and distributors and to automobile manufacturers as original equipment. The Power Solutions business competes with a number of major U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. The Power Solutions business primarily competes in the battery market with Exide Technologies, GS Yuasa Corporation, Camel Group Company Limited, East Penn Manufacturing Company and Banner Batteries GB Limited. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service and warranty. 

Backlog 

The Company&#8217;s backlog relating to the Buildings business is applicable to its sales of systems and services. At September 30, 2016 , the backlog was $9.5 billion, the majority of which relates to fiscal 2017. The backlog amount outstanding at any given time is not necessarily indicative of the amount of revenue to be earned in the upcoming fiscal year. 

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used by the businesses in connection with their operations, including lead, steel, tin, aluminum, urethane chemicals, brass, copper, sulfuric acid, polypropylene and certain flurochemicals used in our fire suppression agents, were readily available during fiscal 2016 , and the Company expects such availability to continue. In fiscal 2017, commodity prices could fluctuate throughout the year and could significantly affect the results of operations. 

Intellectual Property 

Generally, the Company seeks statutory protection for strategic or financially important intellectual property developed in connection with its business. Certain intellectual property, where appropriate, is protected by contracts, licenses, confidentiality or other agreements. 

The Company owns numerous U.S. and non-U.S. patents (and their respective counterparts), the more important of which cover those technologies and inventions embodied in current products or which are used in the manufacture of those products. While the Company believes patents are important to its business operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, no single patent, or group of patents, is critical to the success of the business. The Company, from time to time, grants licenses under its patents and technology and receives licenses under patents and technology of others. 

The Company&#8217;s trademarks, certain of which are material to its business, are registered or otherwise legally protected in the U.S. and many non-U.S. countries where products and services of the Company are sold. The Company, from time to time, becomes involved in trademark licensing transactions. 

Most works of authorship produced for the Company, such as computer programs, catalogs and sales literature, carry appropriate notices indicating the Company&#8217;s claim to copyright protection under U.S. law and appropriate international treaties. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 

Laws addressing the protection of the environment (environmental laws) and workers&#8217; safety and health (worker safety laws) govern the Company&#8217;s ongoing global operations. They generally provide for civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive and remedial relief, for noncompliance or require remediation of sites where Company-related materials have been released into the environment. 

The Company has expended substantial resources globally, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental laws and worker safety laws and maintains procedures designed to foster and ensure compliance. Certain of the Company&#8217;s businesses are, or have been, engaged in the handling or use of substances that may impact workplace health and safety or the environment. The Company is committed to protecting its workers and the environment against the risks associated with these substances. 

The Company&#8217;s operations and facilities have been, and in the future may become, the subject of formal or informal enforcement actions or proceedings for noncompliance with environmental laws and worker safety laws or for the remediation of Company- 

related substances released into the environment. Such matters typically are resolved with regulatory authorities through commitments to compliance, abatement or remediation programs and, in some cases, payment of penalties. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," of this report for a discussion of the Company&#8217;s potential environmental liabilities. 

Environmental Capital Expenditures 

The Company&#8217;s ongoing environmental compliance program often results in capital expenditures. Environmental considerations are a part of all significant capital expenditure decisions; however, expenditures in fiscal 2016 &#32;related solely to environmental compliance were not material. It is management&#8217;s opinion that the amount of any future capital expenditures related solely to environmental compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial results or competitive position in any one year. 

Government Regulation and Supervision 

The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the United States, in areas such as: consumer protection, government contracts, international trade, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax, licensing and others. For example, most U.S. states and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the alarm and fire suppression industries. The Company's security businesses currently rely extensively upon the use of wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and wireless telephone companies in the United States are regulated by the federal and state governments. In addition, government regulation of fire safety codes can impact the Company's fire businesses. These and other laws and regulations impact the manner in which the Company conducts its business, and changes in legislation or government policies can affect the Company's worldwide operations, both favorably and unfavorably. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that affect the Company's business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , the Company employed approximately 209,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 63,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 146,000 were outside the United States. Approximately 28,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. 

Seasonal Factors 

Certain of Building Efficiency's sales are seasonal as the demand for residential air conditioning equipment generally increases in the summer months. This seasonality is mitigated by the other products and services provided by the Buildings business that have no material seasonal effect. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

Refer to Note 19, "Segment Information," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial information about geographic areas. 

Research and Development Expenditures 

Refer to Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for research and development expenditures. 

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Schedule 14A, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of the Company&#8217;s Internet website at http://www.johnsoncontrols.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Copies of any materials the Company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov, at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC&#8217;s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at 1-800-732-0330. The Company also makes available, free of charge, its Ethics Policy, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters and other information related to the Company on the Company&#8217;s Internet website 

or in printed form upon request. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company&#8217;s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

