 Item 1 . 

Business . 

Overview 

Leucadia National Corporation is a diversified holding company focused on return on investment and long-term value creation to maximize shareholder value. Our financial services businesses include Jefferies (investment banking and capital markets), Leucadia Asset Management (asset management), Berkadia (commercial mortgage banking and servicing), FXCM (a publicly traded company providing online foreign exchange trading), HomeFed Corporation ("HomeFed") (a publicly traded real estate company) and Foursight Capital and Chrome Capital (vehicle finance). We also own and have investments in a diverse array of other businesses, including National Beef (beef processing), HRG Group ("HRG") (a publicly traded diversified holding company), Vitesse Energy and Juneau Energy (oil and gas exploration and development), Garcadia (automobile dealerships), Linkem (fixed wireless broadband services in Italy), Conwed Plastics and Idaho Timber (manufacturing), and Golden Queen (a gold and silver mining project). The structure of each of our investments was tailored to the unique opportunity each transaction presented. Our investments may be reflected in our consolidated results as operating subsidiaries, equity investments, receivables, securities or in other ways, depending on the structure of our specific holdings. 

We continuously review acquisitions of businesses, securities and assets that have the potential for significant long-term value creation, invest in a broad array of businesses, and evaluate the retention and disposition of our existing operations and holdings. Changes in the mix of our businesses and investments should be expected. 

At December 31, 2015, we and our consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 13,300 full-time employees. Our executive offices are located at 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022, as is the global headquarters of Jefferies, our largest subsidiary in terms of invested capital. Our primary telephone number is (212) 460-1900 and our website address is www.leucadia.com. 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors presented in Item 1A of Part I and the Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 of Part II. 

Recent Transactions 

In January 2015, we entered into a credit agreement with FXCM Inc. ("FXCM"), and provided FXCM a $300 million &#32;two-year senior secured term loan with rights to a variable proportion of certain distributions in connection with an FXCM sale of assets or certain other events, and to require a sale of FXCM beginning in January 2018. FXCM is an online provider of foreign exchange trading and related services. The loan had an initial interest rate of 10% &#32;per annum, increasing by 1.5% &#32;per annum each quarter, not to exceed 20.5% &#32;per annum. The variable proportion of distributions is as follows: 100% &#32;until amounts due under the loan are repaid; 50% &#32;of the next $350 million ; then 90% &#32;of the next $500 million (this was an amount initially set at a range between $500 million &#32;to $680 million &#32;and based on payments made by FXCM to us through April 16, 2015, this amount became $500 million); and 60% &#32;of all amounts thereafter. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we received $144.7 million &#32;of principal, interest and fees from FXCM and $192.7 million &#32;remained outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2015 . Leucadia and FXCM have discussed restructuring the variable portion of distributions in a manner that is consistent with a sustainable long-term and value-enhancing strategy for both companies, but there can be no assurances that an agreement will be reached. 

During 2013, we formed Leucadia Asset Management ("LAM"), a registered investment adviser, through which we are developing focused alternative asset management businesses. As the adviser and/or general partner to various private investment funds or other types of investment vehicles, LAM provides advisory, portfolio management and operational services to accredited investors and/or qualified purchasers. Once an investment vehicle is formed, it is expected that one of our subsidiaries will be an initial or major investor. LAM's revenues derive from management fees and/or a performance fee based on investment returns generated for the investors. We have invested over $800 million in LAM and other investment strategies managed by investment management companies in which we have a material financial interest and in most cases the investment management companies are subsidiaries of ours, including: 

Folger Hill - We invested $400 million in 2015 in Folger Hill, a multi-manager discretionary long/short equity hedge fund platform which has approximately $1.0 billion in assets under management at the end of 2015. 

Mazama - We invested $250 million in 2014 with Mazama, a long-only growth equity fund manager which has $550 million in assets under management at the end of 2015. 

Topwater - We invested $100 million beginning in 2013 in Topwater, a multi-strategy, multi-manager investment partnership where each underlying investment manager contributes 10% of the manager's own capital as a first loss layer, shielding Topwater's investors from losses up to 10%. Topwater has $899 million in regulatory assets under management at the end of 2015. 

54 Madison - We invested $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 in 54 Madison, which manages a fund that provides equity capital for hotel, timeshare, resort, residential and specialty retail real estate development projects in core global markets. Our investment is part of a total capital commitment to invest $225 million in 54 Madison over the next several years as projects are launched. 54 Madison has $500 million of fund commitments from all investors. 

CoreCommodity &#32;- We own a non-controlling interest in CoreCommodity Management, LLC, an asset manager focused on commodity strategies which has $4.6 billion in assets under management at the end of 2015. 

In addition, several investment management businesses operate under Jefferies as described below under Asset Management. 

Financial Services Businesses 

The following provides more information about each of our financial services businesses and investments and our ownership percentages: 

-  Jefferies, 100% (investment banking &amp; capital markets); 

-  Leucadia Asset Management, various (asset management); 

-  FXCM, variable (online foreign exchange trading); 

-  HomeFed, 65% (45% voting) (real estate); 

-  Berkadia, 50% (commercial mortgage banking and servicing); and 

-  Foursight Capital (100%) and Chrome Capital (83%) (vehicle finance). 

Jefferies 

Jefferies is a global full-service, integrated securities and investment banking firm. Jefferies principal operating subsidiary, Jefferies LLC, was founded in the U.S. in 1962 and its first international operating subsidiary, Jefferies International Limited ("Jefferies Europe"), was established in the U.K. in 1986. On March 1, 2013, Jefferies Group, Inc. converted into a limited liability company (renamed Jefferies Group LLC) and became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Leucadia National Corporation. Following the merger, Jefferies Group LLC retains a credit rating separate from Leucadia and remains an SEC reporting company, filing annual, quarterly and periodic financial reports. As of November 30, 2015, Jefferies had approximately 3,550 employees in the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. The net book value and net tangible book value of our investment in Jefferies were $5.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2015 . 

Equities 

Equities Research, Sales and Trading 

Jefferies provides its clients full-service equities research, sales and trading capabilities across global securities markets. Jefferies earns commissions or spread revenue by executing, settling and clearing transactions for clients across these markets in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, American depository receipts, global depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded and over-the-counter ("OTC") equity derivatives, convertible and other equity-linked products and closed-end funds. 

Jefferies equity research, sales and trading efforts are organized across three geographical regions: the Americas; Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia Pacific. Jefferies main product lines within the regions are cash equities, electronic trading, derivatives and convertibles. Jefferies clients are primarily institutional market participants such as mutual funds, hedge funds, investment advisors, pension and profit sharing plans, and insurance companies. Through its global research team and sales force, Jefferies maintains relationships with its clients, distributes investment research and strategy, trading ideas, market information and analysis across a range of industries and receives and executes client orders. Jefferies equity research covers over 2,000 companies around the world and a further 700 companies are covered by eight leading local firms in Asia Pacific with whom Jefferies maintains alliances. 

Equity Finance 

Jefferies Equity Finance business provides financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services. Jefferies offers prime brokerage services in the U.S. that provide hedge funds, money managers and registered investment advisors with execution, financing, clearing, reporting and administrative services. Jefferies finances its clients’ securities positions through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable liquid collateral. Jefferies earns an interest spread equal to the difference between the amount Jefferies pays for funds and the amount Jefferies receives from its clients. Jefferies also operates a matched book in equity and corporate bond securities, whereby Jefferies borrows and lends securities versus cash or liquid collateral and earns a net interest spread. Jefferies offers selected prime brokerage clients with the option of custodying their assets at an unaffiliated U.S. broker-dealer that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company. Under this arrangement, Jefferies provides its clients directly with all customary prime brokerage services. 

Wealth Management 

Jefferies provides tailored wealth management services designed to meet the needs of high net worth individuals, their families and their businesses, private equity and venture funds and small institutions. Jefferies advisors provide access to all of its institutional execution capabilities and delivers other financial services. Jefferies open architecture platform affords clients access to products and services from both its firm and from a variety of other major financial services institutions. 

Fixed Income 

Fixed Income Sales and Trading 

Jefferies provides its clients with sales and trading of investment grade corporate bonds, U.S. and European government and agency securities, municipal bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, whole loans, leveraged loans, high yield and distressed securities, emerging markets debt and derivative products. Jefferies is designated as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Jefferies International Limited is designated in similar capacities for several countries in Europe and trades a broad spectrum of other European government bonds. Additionally, through the use of repurchase agreements, Jefferies acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and obtains funding for various of its inventory positions. Jefferies trades and makes markets globally in cleared and uncleared swaps and forwards referencing, among other things, interest rates, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, credit indexes and asset-backed security indexes. 

Jefferies strategists and economists provide ongoing commentary and analysis of the global fixed income markets. In addition, Jefferies fixed income research professionals, including research and desk analysts, provide investment ideas and analysis across a variety of fixed income products. 

Futures and Foreign Exchange 

In April 2015, Jefferies entered into a definitive agreement to transfer most of its futures activities to Soci&#233;t&#233; G&#233;n&#233;rale S.A. That transaction closed in the second quarter of 2015. As of the end of 2015, Jefferies futures business consists solely of executing certain customer and proprietary futures orders. 

Jefferies also offers trade execution in foreign exchange spot, forward, swap and option contracts across major currencies. 

Investment Banking 

Jefferies provides its clients around the world with a full range of equity capital markets, debt capital markets and financial advisory services. Jefferies services are enhanced by its industry sector expertise, its global distribution capabilities and its senior level commitment to its clients. 

Approximately 750 investment banking professionals operate in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and are organized into industry, product and geographic coverage groups. Jefferies sector coverage groups include Consumer &amp; Retailing; Financial Services; Industrials; Healthcare; Energy; Real Estate, Gaming &amp; Lodging; Media &amp; Telecommunications; Technology; Financial Sponsors; and State &amp; Local Governments. Jefferies product coverage groups include equity capital markets; debt capital markets; financial advisory, which includes both mergers and acquisitions and restructuring and recapitalization; and U.K. corporate broking. Jefferies geographic coverage groups include coverage teams based in major cities in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, U.K., France, Germany, Sweden, India, United Arab Emirates, China and Singapore. 

Equity Capital Markets 

Jefferies provides a broad range of equity financing capabilities to companies and financial sponsors. These capabilities include private equity placements, initial public offerings, follow-on offerings, block trades and equity-linked convertible securities. 

Debt Capital Markets 

Jefferies provides a wide range of debt financing capabilities for companies, financial sponsors and government entities. Jefferies focuses on structuring, underwriting and distributing public and private debt, including investment grade and non-investment grade corporate debt, leveraged loans, mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, and liability management solutions. 

Advisory Services 

Jefferies provides mergers and acquisition and restructuring and recapitalization services to companies, financial sponsors and government entities. In the mergers and acquisition area, Jefferies advises sellers and buyers on corporate sales and divestitures, acquisitions, mergers, tender offers, spinoffs, joint ventures, strategic alliances and takeover and proxy fight defense. Jefferies also provides a broad range of acquisition financing capabilities to assist its clients. In the restructuring and recapitalization area, Jefferies provides to companies, bondholders and lenders a full range of restructuring advisory capabilities as well as expertise in the structuring, valuation and placement of securities issued in recapitalizations. 

Asset Management 

Jefferies provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies and other institutional investors. Its primary asset management programs are systematic, special situation and global macro strategies. Jefferies partners with our asset management business in providing asset management services. 

Competition 

All aspects of Jefferies business are intensely competitive. Jefferies competes primarily with large global bank holding companies that engage in capital markets activities, but also with firms listed in the AMEX Securities Broker/Dealer Index, other brokers and dealers, and boutique investment banking firms. The large global bank holding companies have substantially greater capital and resources than Jefferies does. Jefferies believes that the principal factors affecting its competitive standing include the quality, experience and skills of its professionals, the depth of its relationships, the breadth of its service offerings, its ability to deliver consistently our integrated capabilities, and its tenacity and commitment to serve its clients. 

Regulation 

Regulation in the U.S. &#32;The financial services industry in which Jefferies operates is subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of laws relating to commodity interests (including futures and swaps). In addition, self-regulatory organizations, principally Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and the National Futures Association ("NFA"), are actively involved in the regulation of financial service businesses. The SEC, CFTC and self-regulatory organizations conduct periodic examinations of broker-dealers investment advisers, futures commission merchants ("FCMs") and swap dealers. The applicable self-regulatory authority for Jefferies activities as a broker-dealer is FINRA, and the applicable self-regulatory authority for Jefferies FCM activities is the NFA. Financial service businesses are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions and attorneys general in those states in which they do business. 

Broker-dealers are subject to SEC and FINRA regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Registered advisors are subject to, among other requirements, SEC regulations concerning marketing, transactions with affiliates, disclosure to clients, and recordkeeping; and advisors that are also registered as commodity trading advisors or commodity pool operators are also subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. FCMs, introducing brokers and swap dealers that engage in commodities, futures or swap transactions are subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. FCMs, introducing brokers and swap dealers that engage in commodities, futures or swap transactions are subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, CFTC and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the operations and profitability of broker-dealers, investment advisers, FCMs and swap dealers. The SEC, the CFTC and self-regulatory organizations, state securities commissions and state attorneys general may 

conduct administrative proceedings or initiate civil litigation that can result in censure, fine, suspension, expulsion of a firm, its officers or employees, or revocation of a firm’s licenses. 

Net Capital Requirements. &#32;U.S. registered broker-dealers are subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule (the "Net Capital Rule"), which specifies minimum net capital requirements. Jefferies Group LLC is not a registered broker-dealer and is therefore not subject to the Net Capital Rule; however, its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Jefferies and Jefferies Execution Services, Inc. ("Jefferies Execution"), are registered broker-dealers and are subject to the Net Capital Rule. Jefferies and Jefferies Execution have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the "Alternative Net Capital Requirement" as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers). Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit operations of our broker-dealers, such as underwriting and trading activities, that require the use of significant amounts of capital, and may also restrict their ability to make loans, advances, dividends and other payments. 

U.S. registered FCMs are subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers. Jefferies Group LLC is not a registered FCM or a registered Introducing Broker, and is therefore not subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements; however, Jefferies is registered as a FCM and is therefore subject to the minimum financial requirements. Under the minimum financial requirements, an FCM must maintain adjusted net capital equal to or in excess of the greater of (A) $1,000,000 or (B) the FCM’s risk-based capital requirements totaling (1) 8% of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in customer accounts, plus (2) 8% of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in noncustomer accounts. An FCM’s ability to make capital and certain other distributions is subject to the rules and regulations of various exchanges, clearing organizations and other regulatory agencies which may have capital requirements that are greater than the CFTC’s. Jefferies, as a dually registered broker-dealer and FCM, is required to maintain net capital in excess of the greater of the SEC or CFTC minimum financial requirements. 

During October 2015, Jefferies ceased being a full-service FCM. As a result, Jefferies no longer carries customer or proprietary accounts or holds any customer monies or funds. While Jefferies may execute certain customer orders, it no longer clears such transactions. 

Jefferies subsidiaries that are registered swap dealers will become subject to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act once they become final. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 27 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on net capital calculations. 

Regulation outside the U.S.. &#32;Jefferies is an active participant in the international capital markets and provides investment banking services internationally, primarily in Europe and Asia. As is true in the U.S., Jefferies subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Every country in which Jefferies does business imposes upon us laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Leucadia Asset Management 

During 2013, we formed LAM, a registered investment adviser, through which we are developing focused alternative asset management businesses. As the adviser and/or general partner to various private investment funds or other types of investment vehicles, LAM provides advisory, portfolio management and operational services to accredited investors and/or qualified purchasers. Once an investment vehicle is formed, it is typical that we will be an initial or major investor. LAM's revenues derive from management fees and/or performance fees based on investment returns generated for the investors. Our strategy is to grow third party assets under management, while earning management fees and a reasonable return on our capital until the capital is returned to us. Our LAM and other asset management strategies primarily include Folger Hill, a multi-manager discretionary long/short equity hedge fund platform; Mazama Capital Management, a long-only growth equity fund manager; Topwater Capital, a first-loss hedge fund; 54 Madison Capital, LLC, which targets real estate projects; our investment in Jefferies Structured Alpha Fund B, a fund managed by the Jefferies Strategic Investments Division that focuses on quantitative strategies; our investment in CoreCommodity Management, LLC, an asset manager that focuses on commodity strategies; and our investment in Global Equity Events Opportunity Fund, a fund that focuses on event-driven strategies. 

Folger Hill - In August 2014, we and Solomon Kumin established Folger Hill Asset Management LLC ("Folger Hill"), which is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC. In March 2015, Folger Hill launched a multi-manager hedge fund which included a $400 million seed investment from us. The fund is a multi-manager discretionary long/short equity hedge fund platform that aims to deliver strong positive results with lower volatility and market correlation than typical equity long/short hedge funds. At the end of 2015, assets under management totaled approximately $1.0 billion. 

Mazama Capital Management - Mazama, led by Ron Sauer, has an over 20 year track record of long-only growth equity investing. With historically strong returns on an absolute basis and relative to its benchmark indices, Mazama is working to grow its assets under management on the back of our $250 million seed investment in 2014 in its strategies. At the end of 2015, assets under management totaled $550 million. 

Topwater - In August 2013, we launched a "first-loss" fund called Topwater Partners with Bryan Borgia and Travis Taylor. We seeded that fund with $100 million and have raised additional third party capital. Starting in 2004, Topwater founders pioneered the first-loss model of investing, which offers a unique risk-reward trade-off for investors and a prudent way for hedge fund managers to run a managed account on attractive terms. Topwater is a multi-strategy, multi-manager investment partnership where each underlying investment manager contributes 10% of their own capital as a first loss layer, shielding Topwater's investors from losses up to 10%. This unique structure provides a strong layer of principal protection. Regulatory assets under management totaled $899 million at the end of 2015. 

54 Madison - In August 2015, we and a team led by Henry Silverman launched 54 Madison Capital, LLC, which manages a fund that provides equity capital for hotel, timeshare, resort, residential and specialty retail real estate development projects in core global markets. We made a capital commitment of $225 million to 54 Madison and through the end of 2015 we have invested $38 million. Total fund commitments to 54 Madison from all investors are $500 million. 

Other additions and launches in 2015 include Tenacis Capital, a systematic macro investment platform, and Lake Hill, an electronic trader in listed options and futures across asset classes. 

FXCM 

FXCM is a leading, global online provider of foreign exchange trading and related services, including contract for difference trading and spread betting, to retail and institutional customers world-wide. Its mission is to provide global traders with access to foreign exchange trading, the world's largest and most liquid market, by offering innovative trading tools, hiring excellent trading educators, meeting strict financial standards and striving for the best online trading experience in the market. FXCM is a public company traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") (Symbol: FXCM). 

In January 2015, we entered into a credit agreement with FXCM, and provided FXCM a two-year senior secured term loan with rights to a variable proportion of certain future distributions. We account for our loan to FXCM and associated rights as one integrated transaction and have elected the fair value option for the loan. The total amount of our investment at December 31, 2015 is $625.7 million and we report it within Trading assets, at fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition. 

HomeFed Corporation 

HomeFed Corporation is a developer and owner of residential and mixed-use real estate properties in California, New York, Florida, Virginia, South Carolina and Maine. After many years in the entitlement process, the majority of HomeFed's assets are now either operating real estate or entitled land ready for sale. HomeFed is a public company traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board (Symbol: HOFD). We own 65% of HomeFed’s common stock; however, our voting rights are limited such that we are not able to vote more than 45% of HomeFed’s total voting securities voting on any matter. Resulting from a 1998 distribution to all of our shareholders, about 4.8% of HomeFed is beneficially owned by our Chairman, who also serves as HomeFed’s Chairman. Our President is a Director of HomeFed. 

At December 31, 2015 , our investment had a net book value of $241.4 million and we report HomeFed as an equity investment in our financial statements. HomeFed’s strategic priorities vary by project, ranging from pursuing further planning, entitlement and approval, to beginning construction, commencing sales, oversight and management of operating assets, and taking other steps to maximize profits. HomeFed also continues to look for new opportunities both within, and outside of, the areas where it currently has projects under development. 

Berkadia 

Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, and its associated entities, is a joint venture formed in 2009 with Berkshire Hathaway. Berkadia is a commercial real estate company providing capital solutions, investment sales advisory, research and servicing for multifamily and commercial properties. We and Berkshire Hathaway each have a 50% equity interest in Berkadia. 

Berkadia originates commercial real estate loans, primarily in respect of multi-family housing units, for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA using their underwriting guidelines, and will typically sell the loan to such entities shortly after it is funded. Provided Berkadia adheres to their guidelines, these government-related entities must purchase the loan at the face amount plus accrued interest with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights. In addition, as a condition to Fannie Mae’s delegation of responsibility for underwriting, originating and servicing of loans, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan sold to Fannie Mae, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance. During 2015 , Berkadia originated $16.1 billion in Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and FHA loans. Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial/multifamily mortgage loans which are not part of the government agency programs. During 2015 , Berkadia closed $5.6 billion of loans in this capacity for life companies, conduits and other third-parties. 

In addition, Berkadia originates loans for its own balance sheet. These loans provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third party ("Bridge loans"). Bridge loans are typically floating rate loans with 1 to 3 year maturities. During 2015 , Berkadia originated $356.9 million of such loans and held $597.6 million on its balance sheet at December 31, 2015 . 

Berkadia also provides a unified, national sales and investment platform that is currently focused exclusively on the multifamily industry. This business provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support. During 2015 , Berkadia closed over $5.9 billion in sales transactions. 

Berkadia is a servicer of commercial real estate loans in the U.S., performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions ("CMBS"), banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Berkadia is an approved servicer of loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA. As of December 31, 2015 , Berkadia serviced approximately 23,000 loans with an unpaid principal balance of $226.9 billion. 

As a servicer, Berkadia is frequently responsible for managing, on behalf of its investors and borrowers, the balances that are maintained in custodial accounts for the purposes of collecting and distributing principal and interest, and for managing and disbursing various reserve accounts related to the mortgaged properties among other things. Berkadia derives certain economic benefits from administering these custodial accounts. Such balances totaled in excess of $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 . 

Our only capital contribution to Berkadia, in the amount of $217.2 million, was made at the time Berkadia was formed in 2009. Through December 31, 2015 &#32;we have received cumulative cash distributions of $393.9 million. At December 31, 2015 , the net book value of our investment in Berkadia was $191.0 million, and we report Berkadia as an equity investment in our financial statements. Berkadia's strategic priorities include continued value creation by growing origination and sales advisory volumes and expanding servicing engagements with third parties. 

Berkadia is required under its servicing agreements to maintain certain minimum servicer ratings or qualifications from the rating agencies. A downgrade below a certain level may give rise to the right of a customer or trustee of a securitized transaction to terminate Berkadia as servicer. Berkadia currently maintains approvals or ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, Standard &amp; Poor’s, Morningstar Credit Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Services. These ratings currently exceed the minimum ratings required by the related servicing agreements. Ratings issued by the rating agencies can be withdrawn or lowered at any time. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause. 

Foursight Capital and Chrome Capital 

In 2012, we partnered with an experienced management team in the indirect auto finance market to start Foursight Capital, of which we own 100%. Foursight purchases automobile installment contracts originated by franchised and independent dealerships in conjunction with the sale of new and used automobiles and services these loans throughout the life cycle. While Foursight was initially jump started by deal flow from Garcadia, it has grown quickly from third party dealerships which now account for approximately 83% of its originations. In 2015, Foursight originated $215.0 million in auto loans, up from $141.9 million in 2014. 

To further build our consumer finance platform and leverage Foursight's servicing capabilities, we began investing in 2014 in Chrome Capital of which we now own 83%. Chrome, which began operations in 2012, is the largest lessor of used Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. Through partnerships with 689 new and used dealerships, Chrome generally provides three to four year leases on used Harleys. In 2015, Chrome originated $41.8 million of leases, all of which are being serviced by Foursight. 

Merchant Banking 

The following provides more information about certain of our other subsidiaries and investments and our ownership percentages, including: 

-  National Beef, 79% (beef processing); 

-  HRG, 23% (diversified holding company); 

-  Vitesse Energy, 96% (oil and gas exploration and development); 

-  Juneau Energy, 98% (oil and gas exploration and development); 

-  Garcadia, about 75% (automobile dealerships); 

-  Linkem, 56% fully-diluted (42% voting) (fixed wireless broadband services); 

-  Conwed Plastics, 100% (manufacturing); 

-  Golden Queen, 35% (a gold and silver mining project); and 

-  Idaho Timber, 100% (manufacturing). 

National Beef 

National Beef Packing Company, LLC is one of the largest beef processing companies in the U.S., accounting for approximately 12.5% of the market. National Beef processes and markets fresh boxed beef, consumer-ready beef, beef by-products and wet blue leather for domestic and international markets. Based in Kansas City, Missouri, National Beef had about 8,400 employees at December 31, 2015 &#32;and generated total revenues of $7.4 billion in 2015 . We purchased National Beef in 2011 and own 79%. 

The largest share of National Beef’s revenue, about 91%, is generated from the sale of fresh and chilled boxed beef products. National Beef also generates revenues through value-added production with its consumer-ready products. In addition, National Beef operates one of the largest wet blue tanning facilities in the world (wet blue tanning refers to the first step in processing raw and brine-cured hides into tanned leather), selling processed hides to tanners that produce finished leather for the automotive, luxury goods, apparel and furniture industries. Other streams of revenue include sales through its subsidiary, Kansas City Steak Company, LLC, which sells portioned beef and other products to customers in the food service and retail channels, as well as direct to consumers through internet, direct mail and direct response television, and service revenues generated by National Carriers, Inc., a wholly owned transportation and logistics company that is one of the largest refrigerated and livestock carrier operations in the U.S. and transports products for National Beef and a variety of other customers. National Beef’s profitability typically fluctuates seasonally as well as cyclically, with relatively higher margins in the spring and summer months and during times of ample cattle availability. 

The net book value of our investment in National Beef was $690.7 million at December 31, 2015 . 

Sales and Marketing 

National Beef markets its products to national and regional retailers, including supermarket chains, independent grocers, club stores, wholesalers and distributors, food service providers, further processors and the U.S. military. In addition, National Beef sells beef by-products to the variety meat, feed processing, fertilizer and pet food industries. National Beef exports products to more than 20 countries; in 2015 , export sales represented approximately 10.5% of revenues. The demand for beef is generally strongest in the spring and summer months and generally decreases during the winter months. 

National Beef emphasizes the sale of higher-margin, value-added products, which include branded boxed beef, consumer-ready beef and pork, portion control beef and wet blue hides. National Beef believes its value-added products can command higher prices than commodity products because of National Beef’s ability to consistently meet product specifications, based on quality, trim, weight, size, breed or other factors, tailored to the needs of its customers. In addition to the value-added brands that National Beef owns, National Beef licenses the use of Certified Angus Beef &#174; , a registered trademark of Certified Angus Beef LLC, and Certified Hereford Beef &#174; , a registered trademark of Certified Hereford Beef LLC. 

Raw Materials and Procurement 

The primary raw material for the beef processing plants is live cattle. The domestic beef industry is characterized by cattle prices that change daily based on seasonal consumption patterns, supply and demand for beef and other proteins, cattle inventory levels, weather and other factors. 

National Beef has entered into a cattle supply agreement with U.S. Premium Beef, LLC ("USPB"), the current owner of a 15.1% interest in National Beef, which sold a substantial portion of its ownership interest to us. USPB has agreed to supply, and National Beef has agreed to purchase through USPB from the members of USPB, 735,385 head of cattle per year (subject to adjustment), based on pricing grids furnished by National Beef to USPB. National Beef believes the pricing grids are based on terms that could be obtained from an unaffiliated party. The cattle supply agreement extends through December 31, 2017, with automatic, but optional one year extensions. During 2015 , National Beef purchased approximately 28% of the total cattle it processed from USPB members pursuant to the cattle supply agreement. National Beef also purchased additional cattle from certain USPB members outside of the cattle supply agreement as well as from hundreds of other cattle suppliers. 

Processing Facilities 

National Beef owns two beef processing facilities located in Liberal and Dodge City, Kansas, which can each process approximately 6,000 cattle per day. National Beef’s three consumer-ready facilities are in Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania, Moultrie, Georgia and Kansas City, Kansas. National Beef’s wet blue tanning facility is in St. Joseph, Missouri. 

Competition 

Competitive conditions exist both in the purchase of live cattle, as well as in the sale of beef products. Beef products compete with other protein sources, including pork and poultry, but National Beef’s principal competition comes from other beef processors. National Beef believes the principal competitive factors in the beef processing industry are price, quality, food safety, customer service, product distribution, technological innovations (such as food safety interventions and packaging technologies) and brand loyalty. Some of National Beef’s competitors have substantially larger beef operations, greater financial and other resources and wider brand recognition for their products. 

Regulation and Environmental 

National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by the USDA including its Food Safety and Inspection Service ("FSIS") and its Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration ("GIPSA"), the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products. 

National Beef is subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 ("PSA"). Among other things, this statute generally requires National Beef to make full payment for livestock purchases not later than the close of business the day after the purchase and transfer of possession or determination of the purchase price. Under the PSA, National Beef must hold in trust for the benefit of unpaid livestock suppliers all livestock purchased until the sellers have received full payment. At December 31, 2015 , National Beef has obtained from an insurance company a surety bond in the amount of $50.4 million to satisfy these requirements. 

The Dodge City and Liberal facilities are subject to Title V permitting pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act and the Kansas Air Quality Act. The St. Joseph facility is subject to a secondary air permit which is in place. The Dodge City, Liberal, Hummels Wharf and Moultrie facilities are subject to Clean Air Act Risk Management Plan requirements relating to the use of ammonia as a refrigerant. 

All of National Beef’s plants are indirect dischargers of wastewater to publicly owned treatment works and are subject to requirements under the federal Clean Water Act, state and municipal laws, as well as agreements or permits with municipal or county authorities. Upon renewal of these agreements and permits, National Beef is from time to time required to make capital expenditures to upgrade or expand wastewater treatment facilities to address new and more stringent discharge requirements imposed at the time of renewal. Storm water discharges from National Beef’s plants are also regulated by state and local authorities. 

All of National Beef’s facilities generate solid waste streams including small quantities of hazardous wastes. National Beef is subject to laws that provide for strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of hazardous substances at contaminated sites; however, National Beef has not received any demands that it has any liability at sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("Superfund") or state counterparts. All plants are subject to community 

right to know reporting requirements under the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which requires yearly filings as to the substances used on facility premises. 

Employees 

Of National Beef’s 8,400 employees, about 5,500 are represented by collective bargaining agreements. About 2,700 employees at the Liberal plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2017, 2,500 employees at the Dodge City plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2016, and another 220 employees at the St. Joseph plant are represented by the United Cereal Workers (R.W.D.S.U./U.F.C.W) under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in June 2019. 

HRG Group 

HRG is a publicly traded diversified holding company, that operates in four business segments: consumer products, insurance, energy and asset management. Its consumer products segment contains an approximate 58% ownership stake in Spectrum Brands, a global consumer products company. Its insurance segment includes an approximate 81% ownership stake in Fidelity &amp; Guaranty Life ("FGL") and Front Street Re, its subsidiary engaged in the business of providing long-term reinsurance, including reinsurance to the specialty insurance sector of fixed, deferred and payout annuities. On November 8, 2015, FGL and Anbang Insurance Group Co., Ltd. ("Anbang") entered into a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which Anbang will acquire FGL for $26.80 per share. HRG's energy segment includes its wholly-owned subsidiary, Compass Production GP, LLC, that is engaged in the business of owning, operating, acquiring, exploiting and developing conventional oil and natural gas assets. On December 8, 2015, Compass completed the sale of certain oil and gas interests to Indigo Resources LLC. Proceeds from the transaction were $147.5 million and were used primarily to reduce borrowings under Compass' existing credit facility. Its asset management segment includes its ownership in HGI Asset Management Holdings, LLC, which, through its subsidiaries, provides financing and engages in asset management across a range of industries. HRG is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol "HRG." 

As of December 31, 2015 , we own 46.6 million common shares of HRG, representing about 23% of its outstanding common shares, which we reflect in our financial results at fair value. In addition, we have designated two directors on HRG’s board, one of whom is our Chairman and serves as HRG's Chairman. We have agreed not to increase our interest in HRG above 27.5% through March 17, 2016. At December 31, 2015 , the book value of our holdings in HRG is $631.9 million and our cost was $475.6 million. 

Vitesse Energy 

During May 2014, we formed Vitesse Energy, LLC, a non-operating owner of oil and gas properties in the core of the Bakken field. We own 96% of Vitesse, which acquires producing and undeveloped leasehold properties in North Dakota and Montana, and converts the undeveloped leasehold into cash flow producing assets. Vitesse has acquired approximately 21,000 net acres of Bakken leasehold and has an interest in 1,108 producing wells (26 net wells) and 413 gross wells (9 net wells) that are currently drilling or permitted for drilling. 

At December 31, 2015 , we have made cumulative cash investments of $258.0 million and our net book value is $278.8 million. Our strategic priorities for Vitesse are to add to our desired core acreage, increase cash flow from new well development over the next 10 years, and selectively sell assets when appropriate. 

Juneau Energy 

During February 2014, we made our first investment in Juneau Energy, LLC. Juneau leases and develops oil and gas properties in Texas and Oklahoma. We own 98% of Juneau, which engages in the exploration, development and production of oil and gas from onshore, unconventional resource areas. Juneau has about 48,000 net acres of East Texas leasehold. At December 31, 2015 , we have made cumulative cash investments of $233.2 million and our net book value is $180.0 million. Our strategic priorities include using our in-house geological and engineering expertise to generate a compelling return, even at lower prices, and to develop a diversified portfolio of quality assets that can grow production and cash flow in the future. 

Garcadia 

Garcadia is a joint venture between us and Garff Enterprises, Inc. that owns and operates 27 automobile dealerships comprised of domestic and foreign automobile makers. The Garcadia joint venture agreement specifies that we and Garff shall have equal board representation and equal votes on all matters affecting Garcadia, and that all cash flows from Garcadia will be allocated 65% to us and 35% to Garff, with the exception of one dealership from which we receive 83% of all cash flows and five other dealerships from which we receive 71% of all cash flows. Garcadia’s strategy is to acquire automobile dealerships in primary or secondary market locations meeting its specified return criteria. During 2015 &#32;we received cash distributions from Garcadia's dealerships of $51.5 million. 

In addition, we own the land for certain dealerships and lease it to the dealerships. During 2015 &#32;we received rent payments related to these leases of $8.6 million. At December 31, 2015 , the net book value of our investment in Garcadia was $172.7 million and was $16.7 million for our land leased to the dealerships. 

Linkem 

Linkem S.p.A is a fixed wireless broadband service provider in Italy. In 2008, Linkem acquired wireless spectrum licenses in the 3.5GHz band and launched Italy’s first commercial 4G wireless service. Unlike the U.S. and most of Western Europe, Italy does not have a national cable television system; as a result, Italy’s broadband penetration rate is among the lowest in Europe, and the vast majority of residential broadband service is DSL, which relies on legacy copper telephone lines. Linkem offers residential broadband services at speeds equal to or faster than DSL, but priced at a discount. 

Our initial investment in Linkem was made in July 2011. Since that time, we have funded most of Linkem’s growth and become its largest shareholder. We own about 42% of Linkem’s common shares and $124.0 million of 5% convertible preferred stock convertible in 2020 (dividends can be paid in cash or in kind). On an if-converted basis, we would own 56% of the common shares of Linkem. 

Linkem owns or has exclusive rights to spectrum holdings of 84MHz covering over 80% of the population and at least 42MHz covering all of Italy. At December 31, 2015 , Linkem’s network includes base stations deployed on over 1,400 wireless towers that can reach 48% of the population. Linkem has over 310,000 subscribers for its services. Linkem has been aggressively deploying LTE since the fourth quarter of 2014 with 67% of its base stations now LTE-enabled. LTE, provides subscribers with faster download speeds and improved service. Linkem plans to increase its network coverage across Italy over the coming years as it adds subscribers; expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next few years. 

At December 31, 2015 , we have made cumulative cash investments of $259.2 million and our net book value is $150.1 million. 

Conwed Plastics 

Conwed Plastics manufactures and markets lightweight plastic netting used for building and construction, erosion and sediment control, packaging, agricultural purposes, carpet padding, filtration, consumer products and other purposes. These products are primarily used for containment purposes, reinforcement of other products, packaging for produce and meats, various types of filtration and erosion prevention. Manufacturing facilities are located in Minnesota, Georgia, Illinois, Virginia and Genk, Belgium (totaling approximately 569,000 square feet). 

In March 2014, Conwed acquired 80% of Filtrexx, a manufacturer and marketer of a knitted sock product with numerous applications in sediment control and storm water management. Filtrexx uses Conwed netting products to provide erosion control solutions with primary applications in oil and gas development, civil infrastructure, and commercial and residential construction. In August 2014, Conwed acquired 100% of Weaver Express, the leading installer of Filtrexx's knitted sock products. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we have owned Conwed for over thirty years and received cash distributions of $167.4 million in excess of our investment. At December 31, 2015 , the net book value of our investment in Conwed was $105.3 million. Our strategic priorities include further development of the business created by the Filtrexx and Weaver acquisitions and expansion of the products, markets and applications for Conwed’s core technology. 

Golden Queen Mining Company 

The Golden Queen Mining Company LLC ("Golden Queen") is a joint venture between Golden Queen Mining Co., Ltd. ("GQM") and Gauss LLC, a newly formed limited liability company. Golden Queen is developing the Soledad Mountain Project, a fully-permitted, open pit, heap leach gold and silver project located in Kern County, California. The project will use conventional open pit mining methods, cyanide heap leach and Merrill-Crowe processes to recover gold and silver from crushed, agglomerated ore. Construction is essentially complete and mining activities and project commissioning commenced in the fourth quarter of 2015. GQM is a Canadian company that has been developing and exploring its mineral properties at Soledad Mountain since 1985. GQM is publicly traded on both the Toronto Stock Exchange ("GQM") and on the OTCQX International ("GQMNF") markets. 

During 2014 and 2015, we invested $83.0 million, net in cash in Gauss LLC to partner with GQM and the Clay family, GQM’s largest shareholder, to jointly fund, develop and operate the Project. In exchange for a noncontrolling ownership interest in Gauss LLC, the Clay family contributed $34.5 million, net in cash. Gauss LLC invested both our and the Clay family’s net contributions totaling $117.5 million to the joint venture, Golden Queen, in exchange for a 50% ownership interest. GQM contributed the Soledad Mountain project to the joint venture in exchange for the other 50% interest. 

Our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with the joint venture is limited to our investment. The net book value of our investment was $80.6 million at December 31, 2015 . 

Idaho Timber 

Idaho Timber manufactures and distributes an extensive range of quality wood products to markets across North America. Its activities include remanufacturing dimension lumber; remanufacturing, bundling and bar coding of home center boards for large retailers; and production of pine dimension lumber and 5/4" radius-edge, pine decking. In addition to its headquarters in Meridian, Idaho, Idaho Timber has plants in Idaho, Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina and Texas. 

The net book value of our investment was $73.1 million at December 31, 2015 . 

Financial Information about Segments 

Our operating segments consist of the consolidated businesses discussed above, which offer different products and services and are managed separately. Our three reportable segments, based on both qualitative and quantitative requirements, are Jefferies, National Beef, and Corporate and other. Our All other businesses and investments consist of our other financial services businesses and investments and our other merchant banking businesses and investments. Our other financial services businesses and investments include the Leucadia asset management platform, specialty finance companies, the commercial mortgage banking investment, the investment in HomeFed and the investment in FXCM. Our other merchant banking businesses and investments primarily include manufacturing, oil and gas exploration and development, real estate, and our investments in HRG, fixed wireless broadband services, automobile dealerships, and our gold and silver mining project. Our financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 31, in our consolidated financial statements. 

Information about Leucadia on the Internet 

The following documents and reports are available on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish to, the SEC: 

-  Code of Business Practice; 

-  Reportable waivers, if any, from our Code of Business Practice by our executive officers; 

-  Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines; 

-  Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors; 

-  Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors; 

-  Charter of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors; 

-  Annual reports on Form 10-K; 

-  Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; 

-  Current reports on Form 8-K; 

-  Beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5; and 

-  Any amendments to the above-mentioned documents and reports. 

Shareholders may also obtain a printed copy of any of these documents or reports free of charge by sending a request to Leucadia National Corporation, Investor Relations, 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or by calling (212) 460-1900. 

