 Item 1. Business 

As used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms &#8220;St. Joe,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221; include The St. Joe Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. 

General 

St. Joe was incorporated in 1936. We are a real estate development, asset management and operating company with real estate assets and operations currently concentrated primarily between Tallahassee and Destin, Florida, which we predominantly use, or intend to use, for or in connection with, our various residential or commercial real estate developments, resorts and leisure operations, leasing operations or our forestry operations on a limited basis. 

We have significant residential and commercial land-use entitlements in hand or in process. We seek higher and better uses for our real estate assets through a range of activities from strategic land planning and development, infrastructure improvements and promoting economic development in the regions where we operate. We may explore the sale of such assets opportunistically or when we believe they have reached their highest and best use. 

Business Strategy 

We intend to use our land holdings and our cash and cash equivalents and investments to create long-term value for our shareholders. We believe that our present liquidity position can provide us with numerous opportunities to create long-term value for our shareholders by allowing us to focus on our core business activity of real estate development and asset management, including opportunities surrounding the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport and our other land holdings in Northwest Florida. 

Specifically, in 2016, we intend to focus on the following initiatives: 

&#8226; 

Bay-Walton Sector Plan. &#32;In May of 2015, the Bay-Walton Sector Plan was officially adopted by Bay County and Walton County, found in compliance with state law, and no third party appeals were filed, therefore it became in effect in June 2015. The Bay-Walton Sector Plan is a long term master plan that includes entitlements, or legal rights, to develop over 170,000 residential units and over 22 million square feet of retail, commercial, and industrial uses on approximately 110,500 acres of the Company&#8217;s land holdings. While these entitlements are broadly defined, what will actually be developed will be a function of more detailed planning, analysis, and market conditions, which will occur over time. We intend to explore opportunities to capitalize on these entitlements, including continuing to explore opportunities in the growing retirement demographic and other strategic initiatives. 

&#8226; 

Commercial and industrial uses of our land portfolio. &#32;We intend to continue exploring new commercial and industrial uses of our land portfolio. The majority of our current land holdings are located within fifteen miles of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent to major roads or the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport. 

&#9702; 

Pier Park North. We are developing a 330,000 square foot retail center in Panama City Beach, with Casto, our joint venture partner and one of the country&#8217;s leading developers of neighborhood and community retail centers. As of February 1, 2016, approximately 287,000 square feet of retail space was leased, which included key tenants such as Dick&#8217;s Sporting Goods, Fresh Market, World Market, Bed Bath &#38; Beyond, Michaels, Pet Smart, Bealls Outlet Store and Ross Dress for Less. 

&#9702; 

Port of Port St. Joe. &#32;We believe the Port of Port St. Joe can benefit from the expected long-term economic growth in the Southeastern United States and the Panama Canal. The Port of Port St. Joe is well positioned for bulk cargo shipments, offering access to rail, the U.S. Gulf Intracoastal Waterway and state and U.S. highways. However, the Port of Port St. Joe&#8217;s shipping channel must first be dredged up to the federally authorized depth. We previously announced that in December 2014, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection issued the state permits to dredge the shipping channel to the maximum authorized depth. In February of 2015, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers issued the federal permits to dredge the shipping channel to the maximum authorized depth. Additional regulatory approvals, funding, and other infrastructure improvements are required before dredging can begin, which could span multiple years. 

&#32; 

&#9702; 

VentureCrossings. VentureCrossings allows for 5.9 million square feet of industrial and commercial development adjacent to Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport. 

&#8226; 

Joint ventures with best of class operators. We believe that by entering into partnerships, joint ventures or other collaborations and alliances with best of class operators, we can efficiently utilize our land assets while reducing capital requirements. 

&#8226; 

Efficient operations. &#32;We expect to continue a cost and investment discipline to ensure low fixed expenses and bottom line performance in all environments. 

&#8226; 

Liquidity and balance sheet strength. We plan to continue maintenance of a high degree of liquidity while seeking opportunities to invest our cash in ways that we believe will increase shareholder value including investments in available for sale securities, share repurchases, real estate and other strategic investments. 

Our Business 

We currently view the company as a manager of our real estate assets. We operate our business in five reportable operating segments: (1) residential real estate, (2) commercial real estate, (3) resorts and leisure, (4) leasing operations and (5) forestry. For financial information about our operating segments, please see Note 20, &#32; Segment Information &#32;included in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 

&#160; 

Residential Real Estate 

Our residential real estate segment plans and develops mixed-use resort, primary and seasonal residential communities of various sizes on existing land. We own land in Northwest Florida near the Gulf of Mexico and other waterfront properties concentrated between Tallahassee and Destin, Florida. 

Our real estate investment strategy focuses on projects that meet our investment return criteria. The time frame for these expenditures and investments will vary based on the type of project. However, we will only incur such expenditures if our analysis indicates that the project will generate a return equal to or greater than the threshold return over its life. An analysis is conducted for capital expenditures in each of our five segments. 

Within our residential real estate business, we currently have two types of communities. The first, our residential resort communities, are positioned to attract primarily second-home buyers. Our successful projects in this category include the WaterColor and WaterSound Beach communities, which were built in a region of Florida that has historically attracted second-home buyers. We continue to see demand for lots and homes in these established resort communities, while some of our other communities continue to have low sales volume. 

Our second type of residential communities serve the primary home market. These communities are for buyers who intend to use the community primarily for their main residence. Our Watersound Origins, Breakfast Point and SouthWood communities are our largest projects in this category. We have seen continued demand from builders for our developed lots and parcels of entitled, undeveloped land in our primary home communities. 

Commercial Real Estate 

In our commercial real estate segment we plan, develop, manage and sell real estate, including commercial operating properties. We provide development opportunities for national, regional and local retailers and other strategic partners in Northwest Florida. We offer land for commercial and light industrial uses. We also develop commercial parcels within or near existing residential developments. Our commercial real estate also includes industrial parks and several commerce parks. We have large land holdings surrounding the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport, the Port of Port St. Joe, along roadways and near or within business districts in the region. Adjacent to the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport is one of our industrial parks, VentureCrossings, a commercial and industrial development. We are soliciting global office, retail and industrial users for this prime development location. 

&#160; 

&#32; 

Resorts and Leisure 

WaterColor Inn and Vacation Rentals. Our WaterColor Inn and Resort is an award winning boutique hotel, which provides guests with access to a beach club, spa, tennis center, an award-winning restaurant, and retail and commercial space. In addition, our vacation rental business rents private homes in the WaterColor, WaterSound Beach and surrounding communities, to individuals who are vacationing in the area. Our resorts and leisure businesses are managed for us by a third party management company. 

Clubs and Resorts. We own four golf courses in Northwest Florida. Three of them are in the Panama City Beach area and the fourth is located in Tallahassee. The golf courses are situated in or near our residential communities. We also own and operate two marinas. Our golf courses and marinas are managed for us by a third party management company. 

St. Joe Club &#38; Resorts. St. Joe Club &#38; Resorts is our private membership club that provides exceptional amenities to our members and resort guests. The focus is on creating a world class membership experience combined with the all-inclusive aspects of a four star/four diamond resort. This allows the company to provide membership and create a competitive advantage in the lodging business. In addition, St. Joe Club &#38; Resorts manages The Pearl Hotel, a boutique resort hotel in Northwest, Florida. 

From time to time, we may explore the sale of certain resort and leisure properties. 

Leasing Operations 

Our leasing operations business includes our retail and commercial leasing. We own and manage several small retail shopping centers located in or very near to some of our residential projects, such as the WaterColor, WaterSound Beach, SouthWood and WindMark Beach communities. The success of these small retail centers is closely tied to the success of the residential developments from which they draw their customers. 

Pier Park North. &#32;Our commercial leasing operations include our Pier Park North joint venture. Our Pier Park North joint venture includes a 330,000 square foot retail center in Panama City Beach, which we are developing with Casto, our joint venture partner and one of the country&#8217;s leading developers of neighborhood and community retail centers. We began to develop and construct the Pier Park North retail center in early 2013 and expect to complete construction in 2016. As of February 1, 2016, approximately 287,000 square feet of retail space was leased, which included key tenants such as Dick&#8217;s Sporting Goods, Fresh Market, World Market, Bed Bath &#38; Beyond, Michaels, Pet Smart, Bealls Outlet Store and Ross Dress for Less. 

VentureCrossings. We built and own a 105,000 square foot building with manufacturing and office space in VentureCrossings and lease the facility to the Harris Corporation under a long-term lease that commenced in 2012. 

&#160; 

From time to time, we may sell certain operating properties. Typically the sales of these assets are reported in our commercial real estate segment. 

Forestry 

Our forestry segment focuses on the management of our timber holdings in Northwest Florida. We grow and sell sawtimber, wood fiber and forest products and provide land management services for conservation properties. We generate revenue from our forestry segment primarily from open market sales of timber. We sell product on site without the associated delivery costs. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 116,000 acres in our forestry operations and expect to have the ability to consistently operate approximately 60,000 of those acres. As of December 31, 2015, we had an estimated 3.2 million tons of marketable pulpwood and 2.1 million tons of marketable sawlogs on such acreage. Our ability to operate the remaining acreage is limited by geographical restrictions, (e.g. lakes and wetlands that do not yield enough timber to make it cost effective to operate in those areas, land set aside for mitigation banks and certain regulatory restrictions). Based on our annual harvest plan, we anticipated harvesting approximately 350,000 tons of pulpwood and sawlogs during 2016. 

Our forestry segment may also sell our timber holdings, undeveloped land or land with limited development and easements. Some parcels include the benefits of limited development activity including improved roads, ponds and fencing. We have traditionally sold parcels of varying sizes ranging from less than one acre to thousands of acres. The pricing of these parcels varies significantly based on size, location, terrain, timber quality and other local factors. 

&#32; 

Seasonality 

Our businesses may be affected by seasonal fluctuations. For example, revenues from our resorts and leisure operations are typically higher in the second and third quarters; however, they can vary depending on the timing of holidays and school breaks, including spring break. 

In addition to the seasonality effect described above, variability in our results of operations is further heightened by the change in our customer mix in our residential real estate business from some retail sales, which have a more consistent flow of revenues, to predominantly sales to homebuilders, who tend to buy multiple lots in sporadic transactions. Our commercial real estate projects are likewise subject to one-off sales and the development of specific projects depending on demand. 

These variables have caused, and may continue to cause, our operating results to vary significantly from period to period. See &#8220;Item 1A&#8212;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Current Business&#8212;Our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period which could adversely impact our stock price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.&#8221; 

Competition 

&#160; 

The real estate development and leasing businesses are highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with other local, regional and national real estate companies, some of which may have greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. 

A number of highly competitive companies participate in the vacation rental industry. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain vacation rental owners and memberships depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our products and services from those offered by others. We compete based on location, price and amenities. 

In our forestry business, we compete with numerous public and privately held timber companies in our region. The principal method of competition is price and delivery. 

&#32; 

Governmental Regulation 

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including laws relating to water, air, solid waste and hazardous substances and the requirements of the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes relating to the health and safety of our employees. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs, civil and criminal penalties, and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property or natural resources, resulting from our operations. We maintain environmental and safety compliance programs and conduct audits of our facilities and timberlands to monitor compliance with these laws and regulations. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the interpretation of these laws or regulations, might require significant expenditures. 

Employees 

As of February 26, 2016, we had 55 full-time employees. Most persons employed in the day-to-day operations of our resorts and leisure operations are employed by a third party management company engaged pursuant to a consulting and employment services agreement. In addition, we utilize part-time employees and independent contractors during the year based on seasonal needs. 

Available Information 

Our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports may be viewed or downloaded electronically, free of charge, from our website: 

http://www.joe.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). In addition, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. To obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference room, you may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our recent press releases are also available to be viewed or downloaded electronically at http://www.joe.com. 

We will also provide electronic copies of our SEC filings free of charge upon request. Any information posted on or linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

&#32; 

