 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS. 

We were incorporated in the state of Nevada on December 12, 2006 as Printing Components Inc. and then changed our name to Diamond Technologies Inc. and then to our current name of Kallo Inc. On December 11, 2009, we merged with Kallo Technologies Inc. (formerly known as Rophe Medical Technologies Inc.), an Ontario corporation and its shareholders (collectively "Rophe") wherein we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Rophe in exchange for 3,000,000 common shares and $1,200,000.

Upon acquiring Rophe, the focus of our business was to develop medical information technology software. It has since expanded to the delivery and support of an end to end healthcare solution for developing countries and rural communities with the focus on improving all aspects of health care delivery.

Business Overview

Our end to end health care solution is called the Kallo Integrated Delivery System (KIDS) and consists of the following 3 components:

1.

Care Platforms

a.

These include the care facility platforms &#8211; MobileCare TM and RuralCare TM described in more detail in the MD&#38;A section, Dialysis care and brick and mortar hospitals as well as the emergency medical services care both land and air transportation.

2.

Digital Technology

a.

This component of the business includes the Electronic Medical Records (EMR), Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS), eLearning system, eGovernance solutions as well as our Tele-health solution that supports the Global and Regional response centers for real time support of medical emergencies.

3.

Education &#38; Training

a.

This component includes the education and training for all aspects of healthcare management &#8211; clinical including clinical informatics, engineering including bio-medical, information and communications technology and health administration.

Each of these components are included in the full KIDS solution but can also be used as individual components to enhance an existing health care infrastructure.

Kallo's Copyrighted Technologies:

The following technologies are protected under Canadian and International copyrights and are authored by John Cecil and owned by Kallo Inc. Kallo Inc. has ownership rights of the products referred in this section, of which B, C, and D are under development

A.

M.C. Telehealth &#8211; Mobile Clinic Telehealth System &#8211; Developed and launched in November 2011.

B.

EMR Integration Engine &#8211; Electronic Medical Record Integration Engine - Under development.

C.

C&#38;ID-IMS &#8211; Communicable and Infectious Disease Information Management System - Under Development

D.

CCG Technology &#8211; Clinical-Care Globalization technology &#8211; Under Development

The following is a summary of the information:

Number

Date of Filing

Place of Filing

Duration

November 3, 2009

Canada

Life of the Author, the remainder of the calendar year in which the author dies, and a period of 50 years following the end of that calendar year

November 3, 2009

Canada

Life of the Author, the remainder of the calendar year in which the author dies, and a period of 50 years following the end of that calendar year

November 3, 2009

Canada

Life of the Author, the remainder of the calendar year in which the author dies, and a period of 50 years following the end of that calendar year

November 17, 2009

Canada

Life of the Author, the remainder of the calendar year in which the author dies, and a period of 50 years following the end of that calendar year

Our Products in Development

Kallo's product portfolio includes three earlier stage products listed below, all of which highlight the broad applicability of our proprietary technologies to a diverse range of potential future products. We plan to evaluate partnership opportunities for further development and commercialization of these products.

1.

The company has proprietary Copyrighted Technology "EMR Integration Engine" that demonstrate the future direction for integrated solutions as well as current efforts that illustrate interoperability within the continuum of care. EMR Integration Engine is software, which connects all the other applications in or outside a hospital/clinic with the EMR system. This enables the doctor/nurse to seamlessly access information in other healthcare applications without moving from one computer to the next.

2.

C&#38;ID-IMS is an Internet-based solution for monitoring and managing Communicable and Infectious Disease information. Our target markets are Health Organizations and Ministries of Health, hospitals and Center for Disease Control (CDC) &#38; the World Health Organization (WHO) members around the globe.

3.

CCG is our clinical-care globalization technology. This product is an effective way to capitalize on the growing "medical tourism phenomenon " - patients going to low-cost countries for elective medical procedures &#8211;, a fast-growing worldwide, multibillion-dollar industry actively promoted by many countries. CCG can be used by both the destination and home country of a patient to maintain complete and accurate records of the treatment history, avoiding errors due to incomplete patient data and lessening the burden and expense of corrective action on the home country when medical tourists return home.

4.

MC-Telehealth (Mobile Clinic with Telehealth system) is our mobile clinic long distance or Telehealth technology. Our product enables the remote transmission of standardized formats of data for laboratory information, diagnostic imaging, diagnosis and clinical notes.

5.

KIDS (Kallo Integrated Delivery System), a Technology &#38; process framework defines and describes the component parts of the various products and services that K&#257;llo is delivering to its clients, including the human resources component, and how these parts interact and relate to one anoth er. The framework also recognizes the need for collaboration with local care facilities, services and providers to support continuity of care and facilitate patient transport between facilities.

6.

KIDS (Kallo Integrated Delivery System) Global Tele-Health Ecosystems. The Tele-health Program encompasses the broad variety of Technologies and administrative processes needed to deliver virtual medical care, health promotion/prevention and other patient education to KIDS patients. The tele-health program facilitates synchronous and asynchronous interactions where patients or care providers are in different locations and includes scheduling, information delivery and care management services.

Target Market

Our primary target market for the Kallo Integrated Delivery System is global with the current focus in developing countries where health care services are limited. We have established several sales and marketing partnership agreements under "Business Associate" section either representing Kallo independently or as an organization. We are currently in various stages of our sales cycle with more than 10 countries.

Additionally, with the components of our KIDS solution, we are targeting markets where we can provide complimentary services to existing health care infrastructures. These markets include the following:

&#183;

Communicable &#38; Infectious disease Information Management System &#8211; supporting World Health Organization (WHO) and Center for Disease Control (CDC); $200B market

&#183;

Electronic Medical Records integration engine for Health Information Access Layer &#8211; focused on clinics, hospitals, IDC &#38; IHC; $100B market

&#183;

Clinical Care Globalization &#8211; focused on medical tourism; $40B market

&#183;

Mobile Medical Clinics &#8211; focused on disaster recovery management and rural community health services for wide range of services, HIV monitoring, chemotherapy, acute care, dialysis, etc; $30B market

Intellectual Property and Research and Development

We continue our efforts in research and development through collaborations with medical faculties in Canada and the United States on an ongoing basis where our company stands to benefit from the technology ownership of the treatment or diagnostic systems developed for commercial use.

During 2015, we did incur expenses (both management and technical) relating to research and development with considerable efforts in continuing our research and development work on the Mobile Clinic and Telehealth system, which would be rolled out in the near term in different geographies based on the needs and funding availability. 

Competition

We compete with many entities in various sectors; mobile clinic and temporary medical facility manufacturers, health care equipment resellers, EMR developers, health care education providers, EMS contracted services, etc. Our competitors tend to be focused on a component of our health care solution, but do have established histories in their particular area of expertise affording them a resource advantage. We are effectively in the start-up phase of operations and as a result, we have little or no impact upon our competition. Our differentiating factor however is our fully integrated solution. In the opportunities that we have been engaged in, we have not encountered a competitor that offers the full end to end solution that we are proposing to our customers.

Managements View of the Market Trend

Our management believes that we are well positioned to assist in the global focus on improving health care delivery through our solution platforms. Global spending on health care in 2013 totaled $7.2 trillion or 10.6% of global gross domestic product. Health spending is expected to rise an average of 5.2% a year in 2014 &#8211; 2018 to $9.3 trillion. A number of the driving factors of the increase, emerging market expansion, infrastructure improvements and treatment and technology advances, fall into our portfolio of products and services. Other factors include the health needs of an aging and growing population as well as the rising prevalence of chronic diseases. The most rapid growth is expected to be in the Middle East and Africa due, in part, to population growth and efforts to expand access to care. All figures quoted from "World Industry Outlook: Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals, The Economist Intelligence Unit, May 2104".

In addition, of the eight Millennium Development Goals detailed by the United Nations, three of the initiatives are related to improvements in healthcare delivery. They include Goal 4: Reduce Child Mortality, Goal 5: Improve Maternal Health, and Goal 6: Combat HIV/Aids, Malaria and Other Diseases. These remain focus areas for global improvement.

The challenges that we have seen in the market are primarily due to the lengthy sales cycle involved in the healthcare sector. Kallo has a detailed sales process which allows us to fully understand the customer needs prior to quoting a solution. Once selected for the project, we work through the formal approval process of multiple government ministries. This process of coordination of approvals, financing complexities and the possibility of electoral and cabinet changes creates significant forecasting challenges.

Government Regulation and Compliance

The healthcare regulations and standards vary widely in the geographic areas that we are focused in, with the primary concerns around patient health, safety, and privacy. With rapid advances in clinical and technology changes, the increased scrutiny by governments, the media and consumers has created continual monitoring and increased regulation on drug and patient safety specifically.

Within the global market that we serve, North America has some of the most stringent regulations and standards for medical technology and pharmaceutical approvals. As such, we have partnered with a number of major biomedical suppliers to ensure the highest standards of equipment. We intend to utilize only the highest standards of product regardless of the market that we are serving.

Agreement with Kodiak Capital Group, LLC

On July 15, 2014, we entered into an Investment Agreement with Kodiak wherein it was agreed that we could "Put" to Kodiak up to 50,000,000 common shares provided that the investment amount, when taken together with all other "Put Notices", shall not exceed $2,000,000. The contract terminated December 31, 2015.

Employees

As of March 24, 2016, we have nineteen full time employees.

Warranties

We do not provide warranties in connection with our products or services. Our third party products are supplied with the manufacturer's warranty and we offer additional coverage with a service agreement.

Insurance

We currently do not have insurance but do intend to insure the business as soon as fiscally possible.

Executive Offices

Our administrative office is located at 675 Cochrane Drive, Suite 630, Markham, Ontario, Canada, L3R 0B8, our telephone number is (416) 246-9997. We sublease this space from Bilfinger RE Asset Management Inc., pursuant to a written sublease expiring on January 31, 2017. Our monthly lease payment is approximately $22,000. Our registered agent for services of process is the Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, located at 6100 Neil Road, Suite 500, Reno, Nevada 89511. Our fiscal year end is December 31 st .

