 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

KBS Real Estate Investment Trust III, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was formed on December 22, 2009 as a Maryland corporation that elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2011 and it intends to continue to operate in such a manner. As used herein, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; refer to the Company and as required by context, KBS Limited Partnership III, a Delaware limited partnership, which we refer to as our &#8220;Operating Partnership,&#8221; and to their subsidiaries. We conduct our business through our Operating Partnership, of which we are the sole general partner. 

On February 4, 2010, we filed a registration statement on Form S-11 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) to offer a minimum of 250,000 shares and a maximum of up to 280,000,000 shares, or up to $2,760,000,000 of shares, of common stock for sale to the public, of which up to 200,000,000 shares, or up to $2,000,000,000 of shares, were registered in our primary offering and up to 80,000,000 shares, or up to $760,000,000 of shares, were registered under our dividend reinvestment plan. The SEC declared our registration statement effective on October 26, 2010 and we retained KBS Capital Markets Group LLC (&#8220;KBS Capital Markets Group&#8221;), an affiliate of our advisor, to serve as the dealer manager of our initial public offering pursuant to a dealer manager agreement. The dealer manager was responsible for marketing our shares in our initial public offering. We ceased offering shares of common stock in our primary offering on May 29, 2015 and terminated the primary offering on July 28, 2015. 

We have invested substantially all of the proceeds of our now-terminated initial public offering in a diverse portfolio of real estate investments. From time to time, and based upon asset sales, the maturity, prepayment or workout of debt-related investments, availability under our debt facilities or market conditions, we may seek to make additional real estate investments. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 27 &#32;office properties and one &#32;mixed-use office/retail property and had originated one &#32;first mortgage loan. 

We sold 169,006,162 &#32;shares of common stock in our now-terminated primary initial public offering for gross offering proceeds of $1.7 billion . As of December 31, 2015 , we had also sold 10,487,846 &#32;shares of common stock under our dividend reinvestment plan for gross offering proceeds of $103.1 million . 

Additionally, on October 3, 2014, we issued 258,462 shares of common stock, for $2.4 million, in private transactions exempt from the registration requirements pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. 

We plan to continue to offer shares under our dividend reinvestment plan. In some states, we will need to renew the registration statement annually or file a new registration statement to continue the dividend reinvestment plan offering. We may terminate our dividend reinvestment plan offering at any time. 

Also as of December 31, 2015 , we had redeemed 1,829,232 &#32;shares sold in our initial public offering for $ 17.7 million . 

As our advisor, KBS Capital Advisors manages our day-to-day operations and our portfolio of real estate investments. KBS Capital Advisors makes recommendations on all investments to our board of directors. All proposed investments must be approved by at least a majority of our board of directors, including a majority of the conflicts committee. Unless otherwise provided by our charter, the conflicts committee may approve a proposed investment without action by the full board of directors if the approving members of the conflicts committee constitute at least a majority of the board of directors. KBS Capital Advisors also provides asset-management, marketing, investor-relations and other administrative services on our behalf. Our advisor owns 20,000 shares of our common stock. We have no paid employees. 

Objectives and Strategies 

Our primary investment objectives are to preserve and return our stockholders&#8217; capital contributions and to provide our stockholders with attractive and stable cash distributions. We will also seek to realize growth in the value of our investments by timing asset sales to maximize asset value. 

&#32;4 

2015 Investment Highlights 

During 2015, we acquired: 

&#8226; 

one office property consisting of 234,915 rentable square feet located in Greenwood Village, Colorado for $76.5 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one mixed-use office/retail property consisting of 10 buildings containing an aggregate of 483,054 rentable square feet located in Leawood, Kansas for $126.5 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one office property containing 355,870 rentable square feet located in Atlanta, Georgia for $87.0 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one office property consisting of two buildings containing an aggregate 205,726 rentable square feet located in San Antonio, Texas for $61.4 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one office property containing 272,360 rentable square feet located in Wayne, Pennsylvania for $89.5 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one office property containing 258,176 rentable square feet located in Austin, Texas for $112.4 million plus closing costs; 

&#8226; 

one office property consisting of three buildings containing an aggregate of 416,126 rentable square feet located in San Jose, California for $150.0 million plus closing costs; and 

&#8226; 

one office property containing 94,837 rentable square feet located in Arlington, Virginia for $51.5 million plus closing costs. 

Real Estate Portfolio 

We have made investments in core real estate properties, which are generally lower risk, existing properties with at least 80% occupancy and minimal near-term lease rollover. Our primary investment focus is core office properties located throughout the United States, though we may also invest in other types of properties. Our core property focus in the U.S. office sector has reflected a more value-creating core strategy. In many cases, these properties have slightly higher (10% to 15%) vacancy rates and/or higher near-term lease rollover at acquisition than more conservative value-maintaining core properties. These characteristics may provide us with opportunities to lease space at higher rates, especially in markets with increasing absorption, or to re-lease space at higher rates, bringing below-market rates of in-place expiring leases up to market rates. Many of these properties required or will require a moderate level of additional investment for capital expenditures and tenant improvement costs in order to improve or rebrand the properties and increase rental rates. Thus, we believe these properties will provide an opportunity for us to achieve more significant capital appreciation by increasing occupancy, negotiating new leases with higher rental rates and/or executing enhancement projects. 

The core office properties in which we have invested include low-rise, mid-rise and high-rise office buildings and office parks in urban and suburban locations in or near central business districts with access to transportation. 

We generally hold fee title to the real estate properties in our portfolio. We may also enter into joint ventures, partnerships and other co-ownership arrangements (including preferred equity investments) or participations for the purpose of obtaining interests in real estate properties and other real estate investments. 

We generally intend to hold our core properties for three to seven years, which we believe is a reasonable period to enable us to capitalize on the potential for increased income and capital appreciation of properties. However, economic and market conditions may influence us to hold our real estate properties for different periods of time. 

We have invested substantially all of the proceeds of our now-terminated initial public offering in a diverse portfolio of real estate investments. From time to time, and based upon asset sales, the maturity, prepayment or workout of debt-related investments, availability under our debt facilities or market conditions, we may seek to make additional real estate investments. 

We also may make investments in real estate-related loans, including first and second mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, B-Notes, bridge loans, convertible mortgages, wraparound mortgage loans, construction mortgage loans and participations in such loans. We may structure, underwrite and originate some of the debt products in which we invest. Our underwriting process will involve comprehensive financial, structural, operational and legal due diligence to assess the risks of investments so that we can optimize pricing and structuring. By originating loans directly, we will be able to efficiently structure a diverse range of products. For instance, we may sell some components of the debt we originate while retaining attractive, risk-adjusted strips of the debt for ourselves. Our advisor will source our debt investments. 

&#32;5 

We may also invest in debt and equity securities. The debt securities in which we may invest include commercial mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;CMBS&#8221;) and debt securities issued by other real estate companies. While we may invest in any of these debt-related investments, we expect that the majority of these investments will be CMBS. With respect to equity securities, we may purchase the common or preferred stock of REITs or other real estate companies or options to acquire their stock. We may purchase the stock of a public company that owns commercial real estate or real estate-related assets when we believe its stock is trading at a discount to that company&#8217;s net asset value. We may eventually seek to acquire or gain a controlling interest in companies that we target. We do not expect our non-controlling equity investments in other public companies to exceed 5% of the proceeds we raised in our now terminated initial public offering, or to represent a substantial portion of our assets at any one time. 

We may make adjustments to our target portfolio based on real estate market conditions and investment opportunities. We will not forego a good investment because it does not precisely fit our expected portfolio composition. We believe that we are most likely to meet our investment objectives through the careful selection and underwriting of assets. When making an acquisition, we will emphasize the performance and risk characteristics of that investment, how that investment will fit with our portfolio-level performance objectives, the other assets in our portfolio and how the returns and risks of that investment compare to the returns and risks of available investment alternatives. Thus, to the extent that our advisor presents us with what we believe to be good investment opportunities that allow us to meet the REIT requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Internal Revenue Code&#8221;), our portfolio composition may vary from what we initially expect. In fact, we may invest in whatever types of real estate or real estate-related assets we believe are in our best interests. However, we will attempt to construct a portfolio that produces stable and attractive returns by spreading risk across different real estate investments. 

We acquired our first real estate property on September 29, 2011. As of December 31, 2015 , our real estate portfolio was composed of 27 &#32;office properties and one &#32;mixed-use office/retail property encompassing an aggregate of 10.6 million &#32;rentable square feet and was collectively 92% &#32;occupied. For more information on our real estate investments, including tenant information, see Item 1, Part 2, &#8220;Properties.&#8221; 

The following charts illustrate the geographic diversification of our real estate properties based on total leased square feet and total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2015 : 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 

_____________________ 

(1) Annualized base rent represents annualized contractual base rental income as of December 31, 2015 , adjusted to straight-line any contractual tenant concessions (including free rent), rent increases and rent decreases from the lease&#8217;s inception through the balance of the lease term. 

&#32;6 

We have a stable tenant base and we have tried to diversify our tenant base in order to limit exposure to any one tenant or industry. Our top ten tenants leasing space in our real estate portfolio represented approximately 18.8% of our total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2015 . The chart below illustrates the diversity of tenant industries in our real estate portfolio based on total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2015 : 

_____________________ 

(1) Annualized base rent represents annualized contractual base rental income as of December 31, 2015 , adjusted to straight-line any contractual tenant concessions (including free rent), rent increases and rent decreases from the lease&#8217;s inception through the balance of the lease term. 

* &#8220;Other&#8221; includes any industry less than 4% of total. 

&#32;&#32;As of December 31, 2015 , we owned one real estate loan receivable with an outstanding principal balance of $22.0 million &#32;that matures on July 1, 2016. 

Financing Objectives 

We financed our real estate acquisitions to date with a combination of the proceeds received from our now-terminated initial public offering and debt. We may use proceeds from borrowings to finance acquisitions of new properties or assets or for originations of new loans; to pay for capital improvements, repairs or tenant build-outs to properties; to refinance existing indebtedness; to pay distributions; or to provide working capital. Careful use of debt will help us to achieve our diversification goals because we will have more funds available for investment. Our investment strategy is to utilize primarily secured and possibly unsecured debt to finance our investment portfolio. We may elect to secure financing subsequent to the acquisition date of future real estate properties and initially acquire investments without debt financing. To the extent that we do not finance our properties and other investments, our ability to acquire additional real estate investments will be restricted. 

We expect to borrow funds at fixed and variable rates. As of December 31, 2015 , we had debt obligations in the aggregate principal amount of $1.7 billion , with a weighted-average remaining term of 2.9 years. We have a total of $102.7 million &#32;of fixed rate notes payable and $1.6 billion &#32;of variable rate notes payable. The interest rates on $676.1 million of our variable rate notes payable are effectively fixed through interest rate swap agreements. The interest rate and weighted-average interest rate of our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt as of December 31, 2015 &#32;was 4.0% and 2.4%, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate represents the actual interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2015 &#32;(consisting of the contractual interest rate and the effect of interest rate swaps), using interest rate indices as of December 31, 2015 , where applicable. In addition, we entered into nine interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $506.7 million, which will become effective at various times during 2016 and 2017. We also have an interest rate cap for a notional amount of $353.4 million, effective from January 7, 2015 to June 30, 2016. The notional amount on the interest rate cap is reduced to $147.3 million from July 1, 2016 to January 1, 2017. See Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Subsequent Events &#8211; Financing Subsequent to December 31, 2015 .&#8221; 

&#32;7 

We have tried to spread the maturity dates of our debt to minimize maturity and refinance risk in our portfolio. In addition, a majority of our debt allows us to extend the maturity dates, subject to certain conditions contained in the applicable loan documents. Although we believe we will satisfy the conditions to extend the maturity of our debt obligations, we can give no assurance in this regard. The following table shows the current maturities, including principal amortization payments, of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2015 &#32;(in thousands): 

&#160; 

$ 

77,457 

&#160; 

296,994 

&#160; 

673,196 

&#160; 

230,081 

&#160; 

194,069 

Thereafter 

&#160; 

181,595 

&#160; 

&#160; 

$ 

1,653,392 

Once we have fully invested the proceeds of our now terminated public offering, we expect our debt financing and other liabilities to be between 35% and 65% of the cost of our tangible assets (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves). We expect our debt financing related to the acquisition of core real estate properties to be between 45% and 65% of the aggregate cost of all such assets. We expect our debt financing related to the acquisition and origination of real estate-related investments to be between 0% and 65% of the aggregate cost of all such assets depending upon the availability of such financings in the marketplace. There is no limitation on the amount we may borrow for the purchase of any single asset. We limit our total liabilities to 75% of the cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) of our tangible assets, meaning that our borrowings and other liabilities may exceed our maximum target leverage of 65% of the cost of our tangible assets without violating these borrowing restrictions. We may exceed the 75% limit only if a majority of the conflicts committee approves each borrowing in excess of this limitation and we disclose such borrowings to our stockholders in our next quarterly report with an explanation from the conflicts committee of the justification for the excess borrowing. To the extent financing in excess of this limit is available at attractive terms, the conflicts committee may approve debt in excess of this limit. From time to time, our total liabilities could also be below 35% of the cost of our tangible assets due to the lack of availability of debt financing. As of December 31, 2015 , our borrowings and other liabilities were approximately 53% of both the cost (before deducting depreciation or other noncash reserves) and book value (before deducting depreciation) of our tangible assets, respectively. 

Market Outlook - Real Estate and Real Estate Finance Markets 

The following discussion is based on management&#8217;s beliefs, observations and expectations with respect to the real estate and real estate finance markets. 

Current conditions in the global capital markets remain volatile. The slowdown in global economic growth, and the increase in oil production capacity, has had a ripple effect through the energy and commodity markets. Decreasing levels of demand for commodities have led to a weakening of global economic conditions, particularly in emerging market nations. Many nations in the developing world rely on metals, minerals and oil production as the basis of their economies. When demand for these resources drops, the economic environment deteriorates, and deflation becomes a very real risk. Over the past decade the United States has seen a resurgence of the domestic energy markets. The growth of domestic oil and natural gas production helped the U.S. economy rebound from the 2008-2009 recession. During the first quarter of 2016, supply pressures in the energy markets have driven down the price of oil to levels not seen in many years, and U.S. economic growth has slowed. 

Central bank interventions and the use of monetary policy to combat the lingering effects of the 2008-2009 recession continue to affect the global economy. The U.S. Federal Reserve (the &#8220;FED&#8221;) pursued an accommodative monetary policy that included cutting interest rates and implementing a quantitative easing (&#8220;QE&#8221;) program. In 2015, the U.S. economy continued strengthening, and the FED ceased the QE program and raised the Target Funds rate by 25 basis points. In 2012, Japan embarked on a massive QE program designed to kick start the country&#8217;s economy. The Japanese economy remains weak, with little or no economic growth. In Europe, the European Central Bank (&#8220;ECB&#8221;) announced its own QE program in January 2015. The long awaited announcement led to lower European interest rates and a weakening of the Euro against other currencies. With much of the EU economy still experiencing low economic growth, the ECB is now poised to increase its QE program. While the intent of these policies is to spur economic growth, the size of these programs is unprecedented, and the ultimate impact on the global financial system is unknown. 

&#32;8 

In the United States, recent economic data has been mixed. Slow and steady growth in the labor markets has driven unemployment to 4.9% as of January 2016. The labor force participation rate continues to be relatively low and personal income growth has been modest. Consumer spending in the United States has been increasing, and consumer confidence levels are starting to reach levels last seen in the mid-2000&#8217;s. U.S. gross domestic product (&#8220;U.S. GDP&#8221;) has continued to grow. On an annual basis, U.S. GDP growth in 2014 was 2.4%, which was an improvement over 2013&#8217;s growth rate of 1.5%. In 2015 U.S. GDP growth came in at 2.4%, with the trend moving towards slower growth in the first quarter of 2016. 

With the backdrop of increasing levels of global political conflict, and weaker international economic conditions, the U.S. dollar has remained a safe haven currency. The U.S. commercial real estate market has benefited from strong inflows of foreign capital. In 2015 commercial real estate transaction volumes increased 23%, making 2015 the second highest level of investment volume, behind only 2007. Foreign capital flows represent 17% of the 2015 volume. Initially, gateway markets such as New York City and San Francisco benefited from a high demand for commercial properties. Now investors have branched into secondary and tertiary markets, and demand for investments is leading to price increases and an uptick in construction and development. Some fear the potential creation of an asset bubble, particularly in the gateway metropolitan markets. 

Impact on Our Real Estate Properties 

The increased volatility in the global financial markets and the potential increase in U.S. interest rates are introducing a level of uncertainty into our outlook for the performance of the U.S. commercial real estate markets. Currently, both the investing and leasing environments are highly competitive. While there has been an increase in the amount of capital flowing into U.S. real estate markets, which has resulted in an increase in real estate values in certain markets, the uncertainty regarding the economic environment has made businesses reluctant to make long-term commitments, as is evidenced by the lower level of business investment and capital expenditures. Possible future declines in rental rates, slower or potentially negative net absorption of leased space and expectations of future rental concessions, including free rent to renew tenants early, to retain tenants who are up for renewal or to attract new tenants, may result in decreases in cash flows. Historically low interest rates could help offset some of the impact of these potential decreases in operating cash flow for properties financed with variable rate mortgages; however, interest rates likely will not remain at these historically low levels for the remaining life of many of our investments. In fact, the FED increased interest rates in Q4 2015. Currently we expect further increases in interest rates, but are uncertain as to the timing and levels. Interest rates have become more volatile as the global capital markets react to increasing economic and geopolitical risks. 

Impact on Our Real Estate-Related Investment 

Our real estate-related investment is directly secured by commercial real estate. As a result, our real estate-related investment, in general, has been and likely will continue to be impacted by the same factors impacting our real estate properties. The higher yields and the improving credit position of many U.S. tenants and borrowers have attracted global capital. However, the real estate and capital markets are fluid, and the positive trends can reverse quickly. Current economic conditions remain relatively volatile and can have a negative impact on the performance of collateral securing our loan investment, and therefore may impact the ability of the borrower under our loan to make contractual interest payments to us. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned one fixed-rate real estate loan receivable with a principal balance of $22.0 million &#32;and a carrying value of $22.0 million &#32;that matures in 2016. 

Impact on Our Financing Activities 

In light of the risks associated with potentially volatile operating cash flows from some of our real estate properties, and the possible increase in the cost of financing due to higher interest rates, we may have difficulty refinancing some of our debt obligations prior to or at maturity or we may not be able to refinance these obligations at terms as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. Recent financial market conditions have improved from the bottom of the economic cycle, and short-term interest rates in the U.S. have increased. Market conditions can change quickly, potentially negatively impacting the value of our investments. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had debt obligations in the aggregate principal amount of $1.7 billion , with a weighted-average remaining term of 2.9 years. We have a total of $102.7 million of fixed rate notes payable and $1.6 billion of variable rate notes payable. The interest rates on $676.1 million of our variable rate notes payable are effectively fixed through interest rate swap agreements. In addition, we entered into nine interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $506.7 million, which will become effective at various times between 2016 and 2017. We also have an interest rate cap for a notional amount of $353.4 million, effective from January 7, 2015 to June 30, 2016. The notional amount on the interest rate cap is reduced to $147.3 million from July 1, 2016 to January 1, 2017. See Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Subsequent Events &#8211; Financing Subsequent to December 31, 2015 .&#8221; 

&#32;9 

Economic Dependency 

We are dependent on our advisor for certain services that are essential to us, including the identification, evaluation, negotiation, acquisition or origination and disposition of investments; management of the daily operations and leasing of our portfolio; and other general and administrative responsibilities. In the event that our advisor is unable to provide these services, we will be required to obtain such services from other sources. 

Competitive Market Factors 

The U.S. commercial real estate investment and leasing markets remain competitive. We face competition from various entities for investment opportunities for prospective tenants and to retain our current tenants, including other REITs, pension funds, insurance companies, investment funds and companies, partnerships and developers. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic location of their investments. Competition from these entities may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Further, as a result of their greater resources, those entities may have more flexibility than we do in their ability to offer rental concessions to attract and retain tenants. This could put pressure on our ability to maintain or raise rents and could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain tenants. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. 

To the extent we acquire or originate additional real estate-related investments, the success of our portfolio of real estate-related investments will depend, in part, on our ability to acquire and originate investments with spreads over our borrowing cost. In acquiring and originating these investments, we will compete with other REITs that acquire or originate real estate loans, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, other lenders, governmental bodies and other entities, many of which have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital available to them than we do. In addition, there are numerous REITs with asset acquisition objectives similar to ours, and others may be organized in the future, which may increase competition for investments suitable for us. Competitive variables include market presence and visibility, size of loans offered and underwriting standards. To the extent that a competitor is willing to risk larger amounts of capital in a particular transaction or to employ more liberal underwriting standards when evaluating potential loans than we are, our acquisition and origination volume and profit margins for our real estate-related investment portfolio could be impacted. Our competitors may also be willing to accept lower returns on their investments and may succeed in buying the assets that we have targeted for acquisition. To the extent we are selling assets, we may also face competition from other entities that are selling assets. Competition from these entities may increase the supply of real estate investment opportunities or increase the bargaining power of real estate investors seeking to buy. 

Although we believe that we are well-positioned to compete effectively in each facet of our business, there is enormous competition in our market sector and there can be no assurance that we will compete effectively or that we will not encounter increased competition in the future that could limit our ability to conduct our business effectively. 

Compliance with Federal, State and Local Environmental Law 

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These costs could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose liens on property or restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for the release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances and governments may seek recovery for natural resource damage. The costs of defending against claims of environmental liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury, property damage or natural resource damage claims could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. All of our real estate acquisitions are subject to Phase I environmental assessments prior to the time they are acquired. 

&#32;10 

Industry Segments 

As of December 31, 2015 , we aggregated our investments into one reportable business segment. We considered both quantitative and qualitative thresholds and determined that our investment in a real estate loan receivable does not constitute a reportable segment. Prior to the reporting period commencing on January 1, 2014, we had identified two reportable business segments based on our investment types: real estate and real estate-related. However, based on our current investment portfolio, we do not believe that our investment in a real estate-related investment is a reportable segment. 

Employees 

We have no paid employees. The employees of our advisor or its affiliates provide management, acquisition, disposition, advisory and certain administrative services for us. 

Principal Executive Office 

Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Newport Center Drive, Suite 700, Newport Beach, California 92660. Our telephone number, general facsimile number and website address are (949) 417-6500, (949) 417-6501 and http://www.kbsreitiii.com , respectively . 

Available Information 

Access to copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other filings with the SEC, including amendments to such filings, may be obtained free of charge from the following website, http://www.kbsreitiii.com , through a link to the SEC&#8217;s website, http://www.sec.gov . These filings are available promptly after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. 

