 Item 1. Business. 

Company Overview 

We are a provider of professional and technical specialty staffing services and solutions and operate through our corporate headquarters in Tampa, Florida, 62 &#32;field offices located throughout the United States and one office in Manila, Philippines. Kforce was incorporated in 1994 but its predecessor companies, Romac &#38; Associates, Inc. and Source Services Corporation have been providing staffing services since 1962. Kforce completed its Initial Public Offering in August 1995. 

We provide our clients staffing services and solutions through three operating segments: Technology (&#8220;Tech&#8221;), Finance and Accounting (&#8220;FA&#8221;) and Government Solutions (&#8220;GS&#8221;). Our Tech segment includes the results of Kforce Global Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;Global&#8221;), a wholly-owned subsidiary, which has an office in the Philippines. The GS segment is organized and managed by specialty because of the unique operating characteristics of the business. 

The following charts depict the percentage of our total revenues for each of our segments for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;(the chart for 2013 and 2014 excludes our former Health Information Management ("HIM") segment, which we sold in 2014): &#160; 

Tech 

Our Tech segment provides both temporary staffing and permanent placement services to our clients, focusing primarily on areas of information technology such as systems/applications architecture and development, project management, enterprise data management, business intelligence, e-commerce, technology infrastructure, network architecture and security. Revenues for our Tech segment increase d 6.3% &#32;to $895.9 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;as compared to $842.5 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The average bill rate for our Tech segment for 2015 &#32;was approximately $67 &#32;per hour. Our Tech segment provides service to clients in a variety of industries with a strong footprint in the communications, financial services, insurance services and government sectors. A September 2015 &#32;report published by Staffing Industry Analysts (&#8220;SIA&#8221;) stated that temporary technology staffing is expected to experience growth of 6% &#32;in 2016 &#32;and should represent one of the highest growth sectors within staffing. We believe the primary drivers of this growth and the continuing use of temporary staffing as a solution during uncertain economic cycles are the increasingly strict regulatory environment and cost of employment, both of which are driving the systemic use of temporary staffing, particularly in project-based work such as technology, and the increasing demand for talent in areas like mobility, cloud-based computing and data security. SIA also acknowledges that notable skill shortages in certain technology skill sets will continue. 

FA 

Our FA segment provides both temporary staffing and permanent placement services to our clients in areas such as general accounting, business analysis, accounts payable, accounts receivable, financial analysis and reporting, taxation, budget preparation and analysis, mortgage and loan processing, cost analysis, professional administration, credit and collections, audit services, and systems and controls analysis and documentation. Our FA segment provides service to clients in a variety of industries with a strong footprint in the healthcare, financial services and government sectors. Revenues for our FA segment increase d 17.7% &#32;to $325.9 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;as compared to $276.8 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The average bill rate for our FA segment for 2015 &#32;was approximately $33 &#32;per hour. In its September 2015 &#32;update, SIA stated that finance and accounting staffing is expected to experience growth of 6% &#32;during 2016 . 

GS 

Our GS segment provides services and solutions to the Federal Government as both a prime contractor and a subcontractor in the fields of information technology and finance and accounting. The GS contracts are concentrated among customers that we believe are less likely to be impacted by sequestration threats and budget constraints, such as the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. GS offers integrated business solutions to its customers in areas such as: information technology, healthcare informatics, data and knowledge management, research and development, audit readiness, financial management and accounting, among other areas. Revenues for our GS segment decrease d 0.7% &#32;to $97.4 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;as compared to $98.1 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The services portion of our GS segment accounted for approximately 84% of its total revenues in 2015. Our GS segment also includes a product-based business specialized in manufacturing and delivering trauma-training manikins. The product portion of our GS segment accounted for approximately 16% of its total revenues in 2015. Substantially all GS services are supplied to the Federal Government through field offices located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, San Antonio, Texas and Austin, Texas. 

Types of Staffing Services 

Kforce&#8217;s staffing services consist of temporary staffing services (&#8220;Flex&#8221;) and permanent placement services (&#8220;Direct Hire&#8221;). For each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , Flex represented approximately 96% of total Kforce revenues, respectively. 

We target clients and recruits for both Flex and Direct Hire services, which contributes to our objective of providing integrated solutions for all of our clients&#8217; human capital needs. 

Flex 

We provide our clients with qualified individuals (&#8220;consultants&#8221;) on a temporary basis when it is determined that they have the appropriate skills and experience and are &#8220;the right match&#8221; for our clients. We recruit consultants from the job boards, Kforce.com, from social media networks and from passive candidate marketing, where we identify individuals who are currently employed and not actively seeking another position. These consultants can be directly employed by Kforce, independent contractors or foreign nationals sponsored by Kforce. Our success is dependent upon our internal employees&#8217; (&#8220;associates&#8221;) ability to: (1) acknowledge, understand and participate in creating solutions for our clients&#8217; needs; (2) determine and understand the capabilities of the consultants being recruited; and (3) deliver and manage the client-consultant relationship to the satisfaction of both our clients and our consultants. We believe proper execution by our associates and our consultants directly impacts the longevity of the assignments, increases the likelihood of being able to generate repeat business with our clients and fosters a better experience for our consultants, which has a direct correlation to their redeployment. 

Flex revenues are driven by the number of total hours billed and pre-established bill rates. Flex gross profit is determined by deducting consultant pay, benefits and other related costs from Flex revenues. Associate commissions, related taxes and other compensation and benefits, as well as field management compensation are included in selling, general and administrative expenses (&#8220;SG&#38;A&#8221;), along with other customary costs such as administrative and corporate compensation. The Flex business model involves attempting to maximize the number of billable consultant hours and bill rates, while managing consultant pay rates and benefit costs, as well as compensation and benefits for our core associates. Flex revenues also includes revenues for our GS segment. These revenues involve providing longer-term contract services to the customer primarily on a time-and-materials basis. 

Direct Hire 

Our Direct Hire business (formerly referred to as &#8220;Search&#8221;) is a significantly smaller, yet important, part of our business that involves locating qualified individuals (&#8220;candidates&#8221;) for permanent placement with our clients. We primarily perform these searches on a contingency basis; thus, fees are only earned if the candidates are ultimately hired by our clients. The typical fee structure is based upon a percentage of the placed individual's annual compensation in their first year of employment, which is known or can be estimated at the time of placement. We recruit permanent employees using methods that are consistent with Flex. Also, there are occasions where consultants are initially assigned to a client on a Flex basis and later are converted to a permanent placement, for which we may also receive a fee (referred to as &#8220;conversion revenue&#8221;). 

Direct Hire revenues are driven by placements made and the resulting fees billed and are recognized net of an allowance for &#8220;fallouts,&#8221; which occur when placements do not complete the applicable contingency period. Although the contingency period can vary by contract, it is typically 90 days or less. This allowance for fallouts is estimated based upon historical experience with Direct Hire placements that did not complete the contingency period. There are no consultant payroll costs associated with Direct Hire placements, thus, all Direct Hire revenues increase gross profit by the full amount of the fee. Direct Hire associate commissions, compensation and benefits are included in SG&#38;A. 

Business Strategy 

Our primary goal is to enhance shareholder value by achieving above-market revenue growth in the segments in which we are focused as well as generating operating leverage. We believe the following strategies will help us achieve our goal. 

Invest in Talent of Revenue Generators . Given the current and expected future demand in the marketplace for the services provided by Kforce and the expectation that enhanced productivity will result from an increasing mix of tenured associates, the Firm continues to focus on the hiring of associates that are responsible for generating revenue. The increase in revenue-generating talent from 2014 &#32;to 2015 &#32;was 9.5% and from 2013 to 2014 was 6.3%. New associates typically take six to twelve months to ramp to a minimum acceptable standard and this increase in productivity generally continues for up to four years. Our hiring focus over the last two years prior to the fourth quarter of 2015 has been disproportionately focused on delivery resources. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we accelerated growth in our Tech Flex sales talent and currently expect an appropriately balanced investment in talent to continue in 2016. We expect the investments in late 2015 &#32;and 2016 to result in re-accelerated revenue growth, particularly in Tech Flex, during 2016 . Going forward, the Firm expects to continue to hire additional revenue generators in those lines of business, geographies and industries that we believe present the greatest opportunity. 

Enhanced Customer Focus. &#32;During 2013, Kforce streamlined the Firm&#8217;s leadership and revenue enablers in an effort to align a higher percentage of roles closer to the customer, supporting our significant focus to provide more consistent and effective service to our clients and our consultants. The new alignment has resulted in a more significant focus on our revenue-generating activities and has resulted in more streamlined processes and tools that should enable us to simplify and improve how we do business with our clients and consultants. 

A continued focus of Kforce is cultivating relationships with premier partners and strategic clients, both in terms of annual revenues and geographic dispersion. In order to achieve greater penetration within each of our largest accounts, we work to foster an understanding of our clients&#8217; needs holistically while building a consultative partnership rather than a transactional client relationship. We are increasingly concentrated on bringing our core employees closer to the customer, and with that in mind we have integrated our largest accounts leadership team into our field leadership team, enhancing our alignment to serve these clients. We believe that this strategy will allow us to more effectively drive expansion in our share of our clients&#8217; staffing needs, as well as capturing additional overall market share. 

We believe we have developed long-term relationships with our clients by repeatedly providing solutions to their specialty staffing requirements. We strive to differentiate ourselves by working closely with our clients to understand their needs and maximize their return on human capital. Finding the right match for both our clients and consultants is our ultimate priority. The placement of our highly skilled consultants requires operational and technical skill to effectively recruit and evaluate personnel, match them to client needs, and manage the resulting relationships. We believe the proper placements of consultants with the right clients will serve to balance the desire for optimal volume, rate, effort and duration of assignment, while ultimately maximizing the benefit for our clients, consultants and the Firm. In addition, Kforce&#8217;s ability to offer flexible staffing solutions, coupled with our permanent placement capability, offers the client a broad spectrum of specialty staffing services. We believe this ability enables Kforce to emphasize consultative rather than transactional client relationships, and therefore facilitates further client penetration and the expansion of our share of our clients&#8217; staffing needs. 

We concentrate resources among our segments and staffing services to the areas of highest anticipated demand to adapt to the ever-changing landscape within the staffing industry. We believe our historical focus in these markets, combined with our associates&#8217; operating expertise, provides us with a competitive advantage. 

Optimize Operating Margins . The optimization of operating margins remains an important goal for Kforce as we strive to deliver profitable revenue growth. We believe our revenue-focused alignment and streamlined infrastructure will allow us to meet the needs of our clients and consultants in the most cost effective manner possible. 

Retain our Great People . A significant focus of Kforce is on the retention of our tenured and top performing associates. We ended fiscal 2015 &#32;with an even more highly tenured management team, field sales team and back office employees, which we believe will continue to enhance our ability to achieve future profitable growth. 

We believe our consultants are a significant component in delivering value to our clients. We are focused on efficient and effective consultant care processes, such as onboarding, frequent and ongoing communication and programs to redeploy our consultants in a timely fashion. We strive to increase the tenure and loyalty of our consultants and be their &#8220;Employer of Choice,&#8221; thus enabling us to deliver the highest quality talent to our clients. 

Continue to Develop and Optimize our National Recruiting Center (&#8220;NRC&#8221;). &#32;We believe our NRC, which is strategically located in both Tampa, Florida and Phoenix, Arizona, offers us a competitive advantage and supports delivery needs in each of our operating segments. The NRC is particularly effective at increasing the quality and speed of delivery services to our clients with demands for high volume staffing. The NRC identifies and interviews active candidates from nationally contracted job boards, Kforce.com, as well as other sources, then forwards qualified candidates to Kforce field offices to be matched to available positions. We continue to see a significant demand for our NRC resources and anticipate a continuation of that trend. 

During 2015, we continued to focus on job order prioritization, which places greater attention on orders that we believe present the greatest opportunity and further evolved the NRC&#8217;s focus to more specific industries, customer segments and skill sets to create leverage. A continued focus for 2016 &#32;will be to enhance the performance of the NRC in meeting demand, and enhance our efforts to support future growth by building a pipeline of qualified candidates, as well as evolving its international talent solution strategy. The Firm will continue to utilize the NRC as a training ground for field sales and expect that top performers in the NRC with a strong knowledge of the delivery system will move into field-based roles. 

Leverage Technology Infrastructure . In 2014, Kforce adopted and implemented an Agile software development methodology (whereby requirements and solutions evolve through cross-functional teams), and underwent an organizational transformation with a goal to maximize the responsiveness and timeliness by which value is delivered through our technology investments. We leveraged our Agile development methodology during 2015 to make incremental and valuable improvements to our front-end and back office systems. As we look into the future, we expect to continue improving our technology infrastructure and surrounding processes to generate additional operating leverage as we grow, enhance flexibility in meeting our clients' increasing needs and improve the effectiveness of our associates. 

Enhance Shareholder Value. &#32;Kforce is committed to enhancing shareholder value. In 2015, the Firm continued to repurchase a significant amount of stock under the Board authorized program, completed four quarterly dividends, and continued to focus on reducing expenses. We increased the quarterly dividend amount by 9% to $0.12 in December 2015 to keep the annual yield at approximately 2%. Kforce expects to continue these initiatives in 2016. 

Industry Overview 

We serve Fortune 1000 companies, the Federal Government, state and local governments, local and regional companies, and small to mid-sized companies. Our 10 largest clients represented approximately 26% of revenues and no single customer accounted for more than 6% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The specialty staffing industry is made up of thousands of companies, most of which are small local firms providing limited service offerings to a relatively small local client base. We believe Kforce is one of the 10 largest publicly-traded specialty staffing firms in the United States. According to a report published by the SIA in July 2015, 122 &#32;companies reported at least $100 million in U.S. staffing revenues in 2014 with these companies representing an estimated 55.9% of the total market. Competition in a particular market can come from many different companies, both large and small. We believe, however, that our geographic presence, diversified service offerings, NRC, focus on consistent service and delivery and effective job order prioritization all provide a competitive advantage, particularly with clients that have operations in multiple geographic markets. In addition, we believe that our service offerings are primarily concentrated in areas with significant growth opportunities in both the short and long term. 

Based upon previous economic cycles experienced by Kforce, we believe that times of sustained economic recovery generally stimulate demand for additional U.S. workers and, conversely, an economic slowdown results in a contraction in demand for additional U.S. workers. From an economic standpoint, temporary employment figures and trends are important indicators of staffing demand, which continued to be positive during 2015 , based on data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (&#8220;BLS&#8221;). Total temporary employment increased 3.3% &#32;year-over-year and the penetration rate remained near record levels at 2.06% &#32;in December 2015 . While the macro-employment picture remains uncertain, it has continuously improved, with the unemployment rate at 5.0% &#32;as of December 2015 , and non-farm payroll expanding an average of 221,000 &#32;jobs per month in 2015 . Also, the college-level unemployment rate, which we believe serves as a proxy for professional employment and is more closely aligned with the Firm&#8217;s business strategy, was at 2.5% &#32;in December 2015 . Further, we believe that the unemployment rate in the specialties we serve is lower than the published averages, which we believe speaks to the demand environment in which we are operating. Management believes that uncertainty in the overall U.S. economic outlook related to the political landscape, potential tax changes, geo-political risk and impact of health care reform, may continue to fuel growth in temporary staffing as employers may be reluctant to increase full-time hiring. Additionally, we believe the increasing costs and government regulation of employment may be driving a secular shift to an increased use of temporary staff as a percentage of total workforce. Given the near record levels of the penetration rate, we believe that our Flex revenues may grow even in a relatively modest growth macro-economic environment. Kforce remains optimistic about the growth prospects of the temporary staffing industry, the penetration rate, and in particular, our revenue portfolio; however, the economic environment includes considerable uncertainty and volatility and therefore no reliable predictions can be made about the general economy, the staffing industry as a whole, or specialty staffing in particular. 

According to an industry forecast published by SIA in September 2015, the U.S. temporary staffing industry generated estimated revenues of $99.4 billion in 2012, $103.7 billion in 2013 and $109.2 billion in 2014, and has projected revenues of $116.4 billion in 2015 and $123.0 billion in 2016. Based on projected revenues of $116.4 billion for the U.S. temporary staffing industry, this would put the Firm&#8217;s overall market share at approximately 1%. Therefore, our previously discussed business strategies are sharply focused around expanding our share of the U.S. temporary staffing market and further penetrating our existing clients&#8217; staffing needs. 

Over the last few years, we have undertaken and continue to progress on several significant initiatives including: (1) executing a realignment plan to streamline our leadership and revenue-enabling personnel in an effort to better align a higher percentage of roles closer to the customer; (2) increasing our focus on consultant care processes and communications to redeploy our consultants in a timely fashion; (3) increasing revenue-generating talent to capitalize on targeted growth opportunities; (4) further defining and monitoring our client portfolio to ensure appropriate focus and prioritization; (5) further optimizing our NRC team in support of our field operations; (6) upgrading our corporate systems; (7) focusing on process improvements; and (8) divesting of HIM, which we considered a non-core business. We believe our realigned field operations and revenue-enabling operations models are keys to our future growth and profitability. We also believe that our portfolio of service offerings, which are almost exclusively in the U.S. and are focused in key areas of expected growth in Tech and FA, are a key contributor to our long-term financial stability. We believe the divestiture of HIM provides us the opportunity to further dedicate our resources to exclusively providing technology and finance and accounting talent in the commercial and government markets through our staffing organization and Kforce Government Solutions, Inc., our government solutions provider. &#32; 

Regulatory Environment 

Staffing firms are generally subject to one or more of the following types of government regulations: (1) regulation of the employer/employee relationship between a firm and its staff, such as wage and hour regulations, tax withholding and reporting, social security and other retirement, anti-discrimination, employee benefits and workers&#8217; compensation regulations; (2) registration, licensing, recordkeeping and reporting requirements and (3) substantive limitations on their operations. 

In providing staffing and solution services to the Federal Government, we must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of Federal Government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. 

In the increasingly stringent regulatory environment, one of our top priorities is compliance. As we continue to evolve our infrastructure, compliance remains a primary focus. For more discussion of the potential impact that the regulatory environment could have on Kforce&#8217;s financial results, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors below. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented specialty staffing services industry within each of our operating segments. We face substantial competition from large national firms and local specialty staffing firms. The local firms are typically operator-owned, and each market generally has one or more significant competitors. We also face competition from national clerical and light industrial staffing firms, and national and regional accounting firms that also offer certain specialty staffing services. However, within temporary staffing, the working capital requirements can be a barrier to entry, because most consultants are paid weekly and customers may take 30 to 45 days or more to pay. 

In addition, many companies utilize Managed Service Providers (&#8220;MSP&#8221;) or Vendor Management Organizations ("VMO") for the management and purchase of staffing services. Generally, MSPs and VMOs are organizations that standardize processes through the use of Vendor Management Systems (&#8220;VMS&#8221;), which are tools used to aggregate spend and measure supplier performance. VMSs can also be provided through independent providers. Typically, MSPs, VMOs and/or VMS providers charge staffing firms administrative fees of 1% to 4% of total service revenues, and these fees are usually recorded by staffing firms as a cost of services, thereby compressing profit margins. While Kforce does not currently provide MSP or VMO services directly to its clients, our strategy is to work with specific MSPs, VMOs and VMS providers to enable us to extend our Flex staffing services to the widest customer base possible within the sectors we serve. 

Kforce believes that the availability and quality of associates and consultants, level of service, effective monitoring of job performance, scope of geographic service, and price are the principal elements of competition in our industry. We believe that availability of quality associates and consultants is especially important. In order to attract candidates and consultants, we place emphasis upon our ability to provide competitive compensation and benefits, quality and varied assignments, scheduling flexibility, and permanent placement opportunities, all of which are important to Kforce being the &#8220;Employer of Choice.&#8221; Because personnel pursue other employment opportunities on a regular basis, it is important that we respond to market conditions affecting these individuals, and focus on our consultant care objectives. Additionally, in certain markets and in response to economic softening, we have experienced significant pricing pressure from some of our competitors. Although we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, we expect competition and pricing pressure to continue, which may result in us not being able to effectively compete or choosing to not participate in certain business that does not meet our profitability standard. 

As stated previously, according to SIA there are 122 &#32;staffing firms with more than $100 million in U.S. staffing revenues in operation and thousands of smaller organizations compete to varying degrees at local levels. Several similar companies &#8211; global, national, and local &#8211; compete in foreign markets. Our peer group for 2015 , which is comprised of some of our largest competitors, included: CDI Corp., Computer Task Group Inc., Kelly Services, Inc., Manpower Inc., On Assignment, Inc., Resources Connection, Inc., Robert Half International Inc., and TrueBlue Inc. 

Seasonality of Operating Results 

Our quarterly operating results are affected by the number of billing days in a quarter and the seasonality of our customers&#8217; businesses. The majority of our reporting segments are significantly impacted by the increase in the number of holidays and vacation days taken during the fourth quarter of the calendar year. In addition, we experience an increase in direct costs of services and a corresponding decrease in gross profit in the first fiscal quarter of each year, as a result of certain annual U.S. state and federal employment tax resets that occur at the beginning of each year. 

Insurance 

Kforce maintains a number of insurance policies including general liability, automobile liability and employers&#8217; liability; each with excess liability coverage. We also maintain workers&#8217; compensation, fidelity, fiduciary, directors and officers, professional liability, and employment practices liability policies. These policies provide coverage subject to their terms, conditions, limits of liability, and deductibles, for certain liabilities that may arise from Kforce&#8217;s operations. There can be no assurance that any of the above policies will be adequate for our needs or that we will maintain all such policies in the future. 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations 

Substantially all of Kforce&#8217;s revenues are derived from domestic operations with customers located in the United States and substantially all long-lived assets were located in the United States for the three years ended December 31, 2015 . One of our subsidiaries, Global, provides outsourcing services internationally through an office in Manila, Philippines. Our international operations comprised less than 2% &#32;of net service revenues for each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

Financial Information about Business Segments 

We provide our clients staffing services and solutions through three reporting segments: Tech, FA and GS. For segment financial data see Note 16 &#8211; &#8220;Reportable Segments&#8221; in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Operating Employees and Personnel 

As of December 31, 2015 , Kforce employed more than 2,800 &#32;associates and had more than 11,600 &#32;consultants on assignment (&#8220;Flexible Consultants&#8221;) providing flexible staffing services and solutions to our clients. Approximately 85% of the Flexible Consultants are employed directly by Kforce (&#8220;Flexible Employees&#8221;); the balance consists of individuals who are employed by other entities (&#8220;Independent Contractors&#8221;) that provide their employees as subcontractors to Kforce for assignment to Kforce's clients. As the employer, Kforce is responsible for the operating employees&#8217; and Flexible Employees&#8217; payrolls and the employer&#8217;s share of applicable social security taxes (&#8220;FICA&#8221;), federal and state unemployment taxes, workers&#8217; compensation insurance, and other direct labor costs relating to our employees. We offer access to various health, life and disability insurance programs and other benefits for operating employees and Flexible Employees. We have no collective bargaining agreements covering any of our operating employees or Flexible Employees, have never experienced any material labor disruption, and are unaware of any current efforts or plans to organize any of our employees. 

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

We make available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations page on our website, and by responding to requests addressed to Michael Blackman, our Chief Corporate Development Officer, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such materials to the SEC. Our corporate website address is http://www.kforce.com. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this document. The SEC makes available on its website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC&#8217;s website is http://www.sec.gov. Information provided on the SEC&#8217;s website is not part of this report. 

