 Item 1. Business. 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

CarMax Background 

CarMax, Inc. seeks to deliver an unrivaled customer experience by offering a broad selection of high quality used vehicles and related products and services at low, no-haggle prices using a customer-friendly sales process in an attractive, modern sales facility. Our strategy is to revolutionize the used auto retailing market by addressing the major sources of customer dissatisfaction with traditional auto retailers. By focusing on customer service, associate development and efficient execution, we have become the nation&#8217;s largest retailer of used cars, selling 619,936 &#32;used vehicles at retail during the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016 . In addition, we are one of the nation&#8217;s largest operators of wholesale vehicle auctions and one of the nation&#8217;s largest providers of used vehicle financing. 

CarMax was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996. CarMax, Inc. is a holding company and our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Under the ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (&#8220;Circuit City&#8221;), we began operations in 1993 with the opening of our first CarMax store in Richmond, Virginia. On October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent, publicly traded company. As of February 29, 2016 , we operated 158 &#32;used car stores in 78 &#32;metropolitan markets. Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway, Richmond, Virginia. 

CarMax Business 

We operate in two reportable segments: CarMax Sales Operations and CarMax Auto Finance (&#8220;CAF&#8221;). Our CarMax Sales Operations segment consists of all aspects of our auto merchandising and service operations, excluding financing provided by CAF. Our CAF segment consists solely of our own finance operation that provides financing to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax. 

CarMax Sales Operations. &#32; &#160; Our CarMax Sales Operations segment sells used vehicles, purchases used vehicles from customers and other sources, sells related products and services, and arranges financing options for customers, all for fixed, no-haggle prices. We enable our customers to separately evaluate each component of the sales process based on comprehensive information about the terms and associated prices of each component. Customers can accept or decline any individual element of the offer without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the offer. 

Purchasing a Vehicle : 

The vehicle purchase process in a CarMax store differs fundamentally from the traditional auto retail experience. Our no-haggle pricing removes a frequent customer frustration with the purchase process and allows customers to shop for vehicles the same way they shop for items at other &#8220;big-box&#8221; retailers. In addition, our sales consultants are generally paid commissions on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same commission regardless of the vehicle being sold, the amount a customer finances or the related interest rate. This pay structure aligns our sales associates&#8217; interests with those of our customers, in contrast to other dealerships where sales and finance personnel may receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices and interest rates, or steering customers to vehicles with higher gross profits. 

We recondition every used vehicle we retail to meet our CarMax Quality Certified standards, and each vehicle must pass a comprehensive inspection before being offered for sale. We stand behind every used vehicle we sell with a 5-day, money-back guarantee and at least a 30-day limited warranty. 

We maximize customer choice by offering a large selection of inventory on our lots and by making our nationwide inventory of more than 55,000 &#32;vehicles as of February 29, 2016 , available for viewing on our website, carmax.com, as well as our mobile app. Upon request by a customer, we will transfer virtually any used vehicle in this inventory to a local store. This allows a single CarMax store to offer access to a much larger selection of vehicles than any traditional auto retailer. In fiscal 2016 , approximately 30% &#32;of our vehicles sold were transferred at customer request. 

In addition to retailing used vehicles, we sell new vehicles at two &#32;locations under franchise agreements. 

Selling us a Vehicle : 

We have separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent transactions. We will appraise a customer&#8217;s vehicle free of charge and make a written, guaranteed offer to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from us. This no-haggle offer is good for seven days. 

Based on their age, mileage or condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through our in-store appraisal process meet our retail standards. Those vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers through our on-site wholesale auctions. Unlike many other auto auctions, we own all the vehicles that we sell in our auctions, which allows us to maintain a high auction sales rate. This high sales rate, combined with dealer-friendly practices, makes our auctions an attractive source of vehicles for licensed dealers. As of February 29, 2016 , we conducted wholesale auctions at 67 &#32;of our 158 &#32;stores. During fiscal 2016 , we sold 394,437 &#32;wholesale vehicles through these on-site auctions with an average auction sales rate of 97% . 

Financing a Vehicle : 

The availability of on-the-spot financing is a critical component of the vehicle purchase process, and having an array of finance sources increases approvals, expands finance opportunities for our customers and mitigates risk to CarMax. Our finance program provides access to credit for customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through both CAF and third-party providers. We believe that our processes and systems, transparency of pricing, and vehicle quality, as well as the integrity of the information collected at the time the customer applies for credit, allow CAF and our third-party providers to make underwriting decisions in a unique and advantageous environment distinct from the traditional auto retail environment. All finance offers, whether from CAF or our third-party providers, are backed by a 3&#8209;day payoff option, which allows customers to refinance their loan with another finance provider within three business days at no charge. 

Related Products and Services : 

We provide customers with a range of other related products and services, including extended protection plan (&#8220;EPP&#8221;) products and vehicle repair service. EPP products include extended service plans (&#8220;ESPs&#8221;) and guaranteed asset protection (&#8220;GAP&#8221;), which is designed to cover the unpaid balance on an auto loan in the event of a total loss of the vehicle or unrecovered theft. Our ESP customers have access to vehicle repair service at each CarMax store and at thousands of independent and franchised service providers. We believe that the broad scope of our ESPs helps promote customer satisfaction and loyalty, and thus increases the likelihood of repeat and referral business. In fiscal 2016 , more than 60% &#32;of the customers who purchased a retail used vehicle also purchased an ESP and approximately 25% &#32;purchased GAP. 

CarMax Auto Finance. &#32; &#160; CAF provides financing solely to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax. CAF allows us to manage our reliance on third-party finance providers and to leverage knowledge of our business to provide customers with a competitive financing option. CAF utilizes proprietary scoring models based upon the credit history of the customer along with CAF&#8217;s historical experience to predict the likelihood of customer repayment. Because CAF offers financing solely through CarMax stores, our scoring models are optimized for the CarMax channel. We believe CAF enables us to capture additional profits, cash flows and sales. After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 42.8% &#32;of our retail used vehicle unit sales in fiscal 2016 . 

CAF also services all auto loans it originates and is responsible for providing billing statements, collecting payments, maintaining contact with delinquent customers, and arranging for the repossession of vehicles securing defaulted loans. As of February 29, 2016 , CAF serviced approximately 709,000 &#32;customer accounts in its $9.59 billion &#32;portfolio of managed receivables. 

Competition 

CarMax Sales Operations. &#160; The U.S. used car marketplace is highly fragmented, and we face competition from franchised dealers, who sell both new and used vehicles; independent used car dealers; online and mobile sales platforms; and private parties. According to industry sources, as of December 31, 2015 , there were approximately 18,000 &#32;franchised dealers in the U.S., and we believe there were approximately two times as many independent dealers. Our primary retail competitors are franchised auto dealers, who sell the majority of late-model used vehicles. Competition in our industry is increasingly affected by the use of internet-based marketing and other internet-based tools for both consumers and the dealers with whom we compete. 

Based on industry data, there were approximately 40 million &#32;used cars sold in the U.S. in calendar 2015 , of which approximately 22 million &#32;were estimated to be 0- to 10-year old vehicles. While we are the largest retailer of used vehicles in the U.S., in calendar 2015 &#32;we sold approximately 5% &#32;of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold in the markets in which we operate, and less than 3% &#32;of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold nationwide. 

We believe that our principal competitive advantages in used vehicle retailing include our ability to provide a high degree of customer satisfaction with the car-buying experience by virtue of our low, no-haggle prices and our customer-friendly sales process; our breadth of selection of the most popular makes and models available on site and via carmax.com and our mobile app; the quality of our vehicles; our proprietary information systems; the transparency and availability of CAF and third-party financing; and the locations of our retail stores. In addition, we believe our willingness to appraise and purchase a customer&#8217;s vehicle, whether or not the customer is buying a car from us, provides a competitive sourcing advantage for retail vehicles. Our high volume of appraisal purchases supplies not only a large portion of our retail inventory, but also provides the scale that enables us to conduct our own wholesale auctions to dispose of vehicles that do not meet our retail standards. 

Our wholesale auctions compete with other automotive auction houses. In contrast to the highly fragmented used vehicle retail market, the automotive auction market has two primary competitors: Manheim, a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, and KAR Auction Services, Inc., which together represent an estimated 70% &#32;of the North American wholesale car auction market. These competitors auction vehicles of all ages, while CarMax&#8217;s auctions predominantly sell older, higher mileage vehicles. 

CarMax Auto Finance. &#32;CAF operates in the auto finance sector of the consumer finance market. This sector is primarily comprised of banks, captive finance divisions of new car manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies. According to industry sources, this sector represented nearly $1 trillion &#32;in outstanding receivables as of December 31, 2015 . CAF&#8217;s primary competitors are banks and credit unions that offer direct financing to customers purchasing used cars. For loans originated during the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2015 , industry sources ranked CAF 8 th in market share for used vehicle loans and 14 th in market share for all vehicle loans. 

We believe that CAF&#8217;s principal competitive advantage is its strategic position as the primary finance source in CarMax stores and that CAF&#8217;s primary driver for growth is the growth in CarMax&#8217;s retail used unit sales. We periodically test different credit offers and closely monitor acceptance rates and the effect on sales to assess market competitiveness. We also monitor 3-day payoffs, as the percentage of customers exercising this option can be an indication of the competitiveness of our offer. 

Products and Services 

Retail Merchandising. &#32; We offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles, including both domestic and imported vehicles, at competitive prices. Our focus is vehicles that are 0 to 10 years old; these vehicles generally range in price from $12,000 to $35,000. The mix of our used vehicle inventory by make, model and age will vary from time to time, depending on consumer preferences, seasonality and market availability. 

Wholesale Auctions. &#32; The typical vehicle sold at our wholesale auctions is approximately 10 years old and has more than 100,000 miles. We provide condition disclosures on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage history and unknown true mileage. Professional, licensed auctioneers conduct our auctions. Dealers pay a fee to us based on the sales price of the vehicles they purchase. Our auctions are generally held on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. 

&#160; 

Extended Protection Plans. &#32; At the time of sale, we offer customers EPP products. We receive revenue for selling these plans on behalf of unrelated third parties, who are the primary obligors. We have no contractual liability to customers for claims under these agreements. The ESPs we currently offer on all used vehicles provide coverage up to 60 months (subject to mileage limitations). GAP covers the customer for the term of their finance contract. All EPPs that we sell (other than manufacturer programs on new car sales) have been designed to our specifications and are administered by the third parties through private-label arrangements. Periodically, we may receive additional revenue based upon the level of underwriting profits of the third parties who administer the products. 

Reconditioning and Service. &#32; An integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning process designed to make sure every car meets our standards before it can become a CarMax Quality Certified vehicle. This process includes a comprehensive CarMax Quality Inspection of the engine and all major systems. Based on this inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring the vehicle up to our quality standards. Many of our stores depend upon nearby, typically larger, CarMax stores for reconditioning, which increases efficiency and reduces overhead. We perform most routine mechanical and minor body repairs in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, including but not limited to services related to manufacturer&#8217;s warranties, we engage third parties specializing in those services. 

In addition, all CarMax used car stores provide vehicle repair service, including repairs of vehicles covered by the ESPs we sell. 

Customer Credit. &#32;We offer financing alternatives for retail customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through CAF and arrangements with several financial institutions. Vehicles are financed using retail installment contracts secured by the vehicle. As of February 29, 2016 , our third-party finance providers included Santander Consumer USA, Wells Fargo Dealer Services, Ally Financial Inc., Exeter Finance Corp, American Credit Acceptance, Capital One Auto Finance and Westlake Financial Services. We have no recourse liability for credit losses on retail installment contracts arranged with third-party providers and periodically test additional third-party providers. 

All credit applications submitted by customers at CarMax stores are initially reviewed by CAF. Applications that are declined or conditionally approved by CAF are generally evaluated by other third-party finance providers. These providers generally either pay us or are paid a fixed, pre-negotiated fee per contract. We refer to the providers who pay us a fee or to whom no fee is paid as Tier 2 providers and we refer to providers to whom we pay a fee as Tier 3 providers. We are willing to pay a fee to Tier 3 providers because we believe their participation provides us with incremental sales by enabling customers to secure financing that 

they may not otherwise be able to obtain. All fees either received or paid are pre-negotiated at a fixed amount and do not vary based on the amount financed, the interest rate, the term of the loan or the loan-to-value ratio. CAF also provides financing for a small percentage of customers who would typically be financed by a Tier 3 provider. 

We do not offer financing to dealers purchasing vehicles at our wholesale auctions. However, we have made arrangements to have third-party financing available to our auction customers. 

Suppliers for Used Vehicles 

We acquire a significant percentage of our retail used vehicle inventory directly from consumers through our appraisal process, as well as through local, regional and online auctions. We also, to a lesser extent, acquire used vehicle inventory from wholesalers, franchised and independent dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental companies. The used vehicle inventory we acquire directly from consumers through our appraisal process helps provide an inventory of makes and models that reflects consumer preferences in each market. 

The supply of late-model used vehicles is influenced by a variety of factors, including the total number of vehicles in operation; the rate of new vehicle sales, which in turn generate used car trade-ins; and the number of used vehicles sold or remarketed through retail channels, wholesale transactions and at automotive auctions. According to industry sources, there were approximately 260 million &#32;light vehicles in operation in the U.S. as of December 31, 2015 . During calendar year 2015 , over 17 million &#32;new cars and 40 million &#32;used cars were sold at retail, many of which were accompanied by trade-ins, and nearly 10 million &#32;vehicles were sold at wholesale auctions. 

Based on the large number of vehicles remarketed each year, consumer acceptance of our in-store appraisal process, our experience and success in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current and future needs. 

Seasonality 

Historically, our business has been seasonal. Our stores typically experience their strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer quarters. Sales are typically slowest in the fall quarter. We typically experience an increase in traffic and sales in February and March, coinciding with tax refund season. 

Systems 

Our stores are supported by proprietary information systems that improve the customer experience while providing tightly integrated automation of all operating functions, including our credit processing information system. Our proprietary store technology provides our management with real-time information about many aspects of store operations, such as inventory management, pricing, vehicle transfers, wholesale auctions and sales consultant productivity. 

Our proprietary centralized inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle throughout the sales process and allows us to buy the mix of makes, models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at each CarMax location. Leveraging our more than twenty years of experience buying and selling millions of used vehicles, our system generates recommended initial retail price points, as well as retail price markdowns for specific vehicles based on algorithms that take into account factors that include sales history, consumer interest and seasonal patterns. We believe this systematic approach to vehicle pricing allows us to optimize inventory turns, which reduces the depreciation risk inherent in used cars and helps us to achieve our targeted gross profit dollars per unit. Because of the pricing discipline afforded by our inventory management and pricing system, generally more than 99% of our entire used car inventory offered at retail is sold at retail. 

Marketing and Advertising 

Our marketing strategies are focused on developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on carmax.com and on attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a vehicle. We implement these strategies through both traditional and digital methods, including social media. Our carmax.com website and related mobile apps are marketing tools for communicating the CarMax consumer offer in detail, sophisticated search engines for finding the right vehicle and sales channels for customers who prefer to initiate part of the shopping and sales process online. The website and mobile apps also include a variety of other customer service features including initiation of vehicle transfers and scheduling appointments. Information on the thousands of cars available in our nationwide inventory is updated several times per day. Our survey data indicates that during fiscal 2016 , approximately 88% &#32;of customers who purchased a vehicle from us had first visited us online. 

Associates 

On February 29, 2016 , we had a total of 22,429 &#32;full- and part-time associates, including 16,557 &#32;hourly and salaried associates and 5,872 &#32;sales associates, who worked on a commission basis. We employ additional associates during peak selling seasons. We believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee relations. No associate is subject to a collective 

bargaining agreement. We focus on developing our associates and providing them with the information and resources they need to offer exceptional customer service and have been recognized for the success of our efforts by a number of external organizations. 

Intellectual Property 

Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including CarMax and the related family of marks, have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 

&#160; 

Laws and Regulations 

Vehicle Dealer and Other Laws and Regulations. &#32; We operate in a highly regulated industry. In every state in which we operate, we must obtain licenses and permits to conduct business, including dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and local regulatory authorities. A wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the manner in which we conduct business, including advertising, sales, financing and employment practices. These laws include consumer protection laws and privacy laws, as well as other laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers. These laws also include federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws. Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, equal credit opportunity and fair credit reporting laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance, collection, repossession and installment finance laws. Our activities are subject to enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission and other federal and state regulators, and our financing activities are also subject to enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 

Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals or governmental authorities and could expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of the licenses necessary to conduct business and fines. 

Environmental Laws and Regulations . &#32; We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the environment. Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents, lubricants, paints and other substances. We are subject to compliance with regulations concerning, among other things, the operation of underground and above-ground gasoline storage tanks, gasoline dispensing equipment, above-ground oil tanks and automotive paint booths. 

Financial Information 

For financial information on our segments, see Item 6. Selected Financial Data, Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 

The following items are available free of charge through the &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; link on our investor information home page at investors.carmax.com, shortly after we file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;): annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A, and any amendments to those reports. The following documents are also available free of charge on our website: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of the Audit, Nominating and Governance, and Compensation and Personnel Committees. We publish any changes to these documents on our website. We also promptly disclose reportable waivers of the Code of Business Conduct on our website. The contents of our website are not, however, part of this report. 

Printed copies of these documents are also available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our corporate secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this report. 

