 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OUR BUSINESS 

REPRO MED SYSTEMS, INC., (&#8220;REPRO MED,&#8221; &#8220;RMS Medical Products,&#8221; &#8220;RMS&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;), designs, manufactures and markets proprietary and innovative medical devices primarily for the ambulatory infusion market and emergency medical applications in compliance with the United States Food and Drug Administration (the &#8220;FDA&#8221;) quality and regulatory system and international standards for quality system management. The Company&#8217;s development and marketing focus is primarily concentrated on the FREEDOM60&#174; Syringe Infusion System and accessories, RMS HIgH-Flo&#8482; Subcutaneous Safety Needle Sets and the RES-Q-VAC&#174; Portable Medical Suction System. The Company was incorporated in the State of New York in March 1980.

OUR PRODUCTS 

RMS is a cutting edge medical device manufacturer, collaborating closely within the industry to develop products with a focus on improving the lives of its patients. RMS&#8217; unique infusion delivery system is improving the quality of life of more than 15,000 patients around the world. Many patients will need to be on their life saving therapy for the rest of their lives, with a number of patients having safely used RMS&#8217; home care FREEDOM infusion system for more than 10 years.

RMS&#8217; innovative pumps, flow controlled tubing and subcutaneous needle sets ensure these patients continue to experience their often weekly infusions as a non-event with no adverse reactions. The Company&#8217;s system gives patients the ability to continue with their daily activities with its easy to use, wearable and portable system. RMS relies on proven scientific principles to innovate and develop mechanical infusion systems by embracing a culture of continuous improvement. At RMS Medical Products, patients always come first, which is why health care professionals recommend the use of the FREEDOM system for most patients in the U.S. market.

There is a steady increase in patients being diagnosed with diseases that are remedied by the medicines that RMS&#8217; FREEDOM system delivers, and the Company is well-positioned to continue to gain market share and help impacted patients gain &#8220;freedom&#8221; in their lives. Moreover, RMS is poised to expand its product distribution internationally in the near future. Steady U.S. growth forecasts and significant international opportunities ensure that RMS will continue its profitable revenue growth.

FREEDOM60 SYRINGE INFUSION SYSTEM

The FREEDOM60 Syringe Infusion System (&#8220;FREEDOM60&#8221;), comprised of the FREEDOM60 Syringe Infusion Pump and RMS Precision Flow Rate Tubing&#8482;, is designed for ambulatory medication infusions. For the home care patient, FREEDOM60 is an easy-to-use, lightweight mechanical pump using a 60ml syringe, completely portable and maintenance free, with no batteries to replace. FREEDOM60 offers increased safety, greater reliability and an overall higher quality infusion. For the infusion professional, FREEDOM60 delivers accurate infusion rates and class-leading flow performance. For the home infusion provider, FREEDOM60 is a cost-effective alternative to replace electronic and disposable pumps. Given FREEDOM60&#8217;s lower acquisition and operating costs, it frees up significant working capital for growing the Company&#8217;s infusion businesses.

The FREEDOM60 operates in &#8220;dynamic equilibrium,&#8221; which means the pump operates at a safe, low pressure and maintains a balance between what a patient&#8217;s subcutaneous tissues are able to manage and what the pump infuses. This balance is created by a safe, limited and controlled pressure, which adjusts the flow rate automatically to the patient&#8217;s needs providing a reliable, faster and more comfortable administration with fewer side effects for those patients. Electronic devices will increase infusion pressure while attempting to continue an infusion at the programmed rate, while the FREEDOM60 design maintains a safe, constant pressure and thereby automatically reduces the flow rate as required, if problems of administration occur.

Ambulatory infusion pumps are most prevalent in the outpatient and home care market although RMS believes there is potential in the hospital setting as well. Applications for the FREEDOM60 have been expanded to a wide spectrum by the medical and nursing communities due to its unique constant flow design, fluid dynamics functionality and safety profile. The usage includes the infusion of specialized drugs such as Immunoglobulin G (&#8220;IgG&#8221;), pain control and chemotherapy. Applications are also being increased for intravenous antibiotics including the widely used yet challenging to administer Vancomycin, and beta lactams which require longer infusion times as a part of antimicrobial stewardship. In Europe, RMS has observed additional patient success with the use of the FREEDOM60 for pain control, specifically post-operative epidural pain administration.

- 3 -

The FREEDOM60 provides a high-quality delivery to the patient at costs comparable to gravity-driven infusions and is designed for the home health care industry, patient emergency transportation and for any time a low-cost infusion is required. RMS continues to meet milestones in building a product franchise with FREEDOM60 and the sale of RMS Precision Flow Rate Tubing. This positions the Company well to expand on the technology of dynamic equilibrium for other home infusion devices.

The use of the FREEDOM60 for treatment of primary immune deficiencies by administering IgG under the skin, a subcutaneous administration (&#8220;SCIg&#8221;), has continued to increase over the past several years and remains the leading pump in the U.S. for these infusions. For patients with Primary Immunodeficiency, Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy, this method has vastly improved quality of life with much fewer unpleasant side effects experienced in comparison to the traditional intravenous route. There is evidence that indications for SCIg therapy will continue to expand to other disease states. The FREEDOM60 is an ideal system for this administration because:

&#183;

the patient is able to self-medicate at home

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#183;

the pump is easily configured for this application

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#183;

it is the best value infusion system available in a heavily cost constrained market

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#183;

it has demonstrated ultimate effectiveness and an impeccable safety profile without any concerns

In March, 2015, at the National Home Infusion Association Show in Phoenix, Arizona, RMS introduced the FreedomEdge&#8482; Syringe Infusion Pump (&#8220;FreedomEdge&#8221;). The FreedomEdge uses all of the trusted technology of the FREEDOM60 in a new, smaller package ideal for use with 20ml or 30ml syringe sizes. Similar to the FREEDOM60, the FreedomEdge utilizes the existing RMS Precision Flow Rate Tubing and provides a great alternative and benefits to the patients who do not need the larger dose capacity.

RMS HIGH-FLO&#8482; SUBCUTANEOUS SAFETY NEEDLE SETS

RMS HIgH-Flo Subcutaneous Safety Needle Sets (&#8220;HIgH-Flo&#8221;) are designed for self-administration of medicine under the skin. RMS&#8217; needles feature unique design elements specific to subcutaneous self-administration, including a 5-bevel back-cut needle designed for more comfort and less tissue damage. Its needle set design permits drug flows which are the same or faster than those achieved with larger gauge needles currently on the market. This proprietary fluid dynamics engineering, compatible with the FREEDOM60 and FreedomEdge, guarantees the sensitivity of the system&#8217;s dynamic equilibrium.

Reflecting RMS&#8217; dedication to clinician safety, the sets&#8217; butterfly wing closures encase needles after use and help to protect against accidental needle stick injuries, an area of concern to the medical community. The sets are called safety needle sets to reflect this integral feature.

The Company expanded the range of HIgH-Flo sets available, including a 24 gauge set for very high flow rates, to meet the delivery demands of new drugs on the market. HIgH-Flo sets are also being used in clinical trials worldwide for a number of medications and therapies.

RES-Q-VAC&#174; PORTABLE MEDICAL SUCTION

The RES-Q-VAC Portable Medical Suction System (&#8220;RES-Q-VAC&#8221;) is a lightweight, portable, hand-operated suction device that removes fluids from a patient&#8217;s airway by attaching the RES-Q-VAC pump to various proprietary sterile and non-sterile single-use catheters sized for adult and pediatric suctioning. The bottom-hinged, one-hand operation makes it extremely effective and the product is generally found in emergency vehicles, hospitals, disaster kits, mass casualty trailers and wherever portable aspiration is a necessity, including backup support for powered suction systems. Additional markets include nursing homes, hospice, sub-acute, dental and military applications. The Full Stop Protection&#174; filter and disposable features of the RES-Q-VAC reduce the risk of exposing the health professional to human immunodeficiency virus (&#8220;HIV&#8221;) or Tuberculosis (&#8220;TB&#8221;) when suctioning a patient or during post treatment cleanup. All of the parts that connect to the pump are disposable.

A critical component and significant advantage of the RES-Q-VAC system is our Full Stop Protection&#174; filter, a patented filtering system that both prevents leakage and overflow of the aspirated fluids, even at full capacity, and traps many air- and fluid-borne pathogens and potentially infectious materials within the sealable container. This protects users from potential exposure to disease and contamination. Full Stop Protection meets the requirement of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;) &#8216;Occupational Exposure to Blood Borne Pathogens&#8221; Code of Federal Regulations 29 1910.1030. The Company has received a letter from OSHA confirming that the RES-Q-VAC with Full Stop Protection falls under the engineering controls of the blood borne pathogen regulation and that the product&#8217;s use would fulfill the regulatory requirements.

- 4 -

The Centers for Disease Control (&#8220;CDC&#8221;) and World Health Organization continue to emphasize the importance of minimizing aerosol production during suctioning, in order to reduce the spread of pandemic and epidemic diseases such as Ebola and Influenza. At the current time, we believe that the RES-Q-VAC with Full Stop Protection is the only portable, hand-operated device to comply with CDC directives from 2003.

Hospitals are required under the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (&#8220;EMTALA&#8221;) regulations to provide emergency treatment to patients anywhere in the primary facility and up to 250 yards away. The RES-Q-VAC ensures full compliance with these regulations and helps minimize unfavorable outcomes and potential lawsuits. We provide special hospital kits, which are fully stocked to meet all hospital applications, both adult and pediatric.

RMS is actively pursuing a direct sales effort into the hospital market, working with direct sales and several regional distributors in the respiratory market. It is also working internationally with distributors who are well represented in the hospital and emergency markets.

ON-LINE CALCULATOR

In March 2016, the Company introduced its new On-Line Calculator, a tool to help determine which of the Company&#8217;s Precision Flow Rate Tubing and RMS HIgH-Flo Subcutaneous Needle Sets to use based on the medication being administered and desired time of infusion. Customers responded well to the new calculator and expressed that the new format of the On-Line Calculator, which can be used on any computer, tablet or mobile device, was easy to use and very helpful. 

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION 

FREEDOM60 systems are sold domestically through both direct sales efforts concentrated on large national accounts and through a network of medical device distributors. Most of our sales are through distributors, one of which represents approximately 55.3% of our total revenue.

Internationally, we have FREEDOM60 distribution in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, the Benelux countries, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Germany, Sweden and the United Kingdom. We believe that a single distributor in each country will be more predisposed to advertising, promoting, and building the product franchise, and we work closely with our distributors to promote our products. Since February 2014, we have employed a sales representative based in Sweden to expand our efforts to add distributors in other countries. In October 2015, we hired an additional sales representative based in Germany.

RES-Q-VAC is sold domestically and internationally by emergency medical device distributors in approximately 25 countries and represents about 5% of our revenue. These distributors generally sell to the end user and advertise these products in relevant publications and in their catalogs. We also sell directly to some physician offices, hospitals and other institutional customers. We market the hospital RES-Q-VAC system through regional distributors specializing in the hospital respiratory care market. We are expanding support in international markets where we believe RES-Q-VAC has higher potential. 

During the fiscal year, we have expanded our efforts to market both of our main product lines at national and international trade shows. We support shows attended by our primary customers such as MEDICA, Arab Health, EMS Today, National Home Infusion Association Conference, Infusion Nurses Society, European Society for Immunodeficiencies and the Immune Deficiency Foundation&#8217;s regional meetings.

RAW MATERIALS 

Raw materials, consisting of components, molded parts and tubing, essential to our business are purchased from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of business. Although most of these materials are generally available, we may at times experience shortages of supply. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials supply, we work closely with suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. The company also seeks to develop new and alternative sources of supply where beneficial to its overall raw materials procurement strategy. 

The Company also utilizes long-term supply contracts with some suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the risk of price increases. RMS is not always able to recover cost increases for raw materials through customer pricing due to contractual limits and market forces.

- 5 -

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

We recognize the importance of innovation and renovation to our long-term success and are focused on and committed to research and new product development activities. Our product development team engages in consumer research, product development, current product improvement and testing activities, and also leverages our development capabilities by partnering with a network of outside resources.

We recently completed development of the FreedomEdge, a smaller version of the FREEDOM60, and introduced it at the National Home Infusion Association show in Phoenix, AZ, in March, 2015. There is no assurance that this product, or any others under development, will result in net revenue or profit increases for the Company. At the National Home Infusion Association show in New Orleans, LA, in March 2016, the Company introduced its new On-Line Calculator, a tool to help determine which of the Company&#8217;s Precision Flow Rate Tubing&#8482; and RMS HIgH-Flo Subcutaneous Needle Sets&#8482; to use based on the medication being administered and desired time of infusion. Customers responded well to the new calculator and expressed that the new format of the On-Line Calculator, which can be used on any computer, tablet, or mobile device, was easy to use and very helpful. 

QUALITY ASSURANCE 

RMS&#8217; success depends upon the quality of its products. Our quality management system plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, facilitating continuous improvement of the Company&#8217;s processes, products and services, and assuring the safety and efficacy of the Company&#8217;s products. 

Each product that we market is required to meet specific quality standards, both in packaging and in product integrity and quality. If either of those is determined to be compromised at any time, we take corrective and preventive actions designed to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and to meet customer expectations.

MARKETS 

The domestic home infusion therapy market is comprised of approximately 4,500 sites of service, including local and national organizations, hospital-affiliated organizations, and national home infusion organizations, and produces approximately $9 - $11 billion in revenue annually*. With insurance reimbursement for medical devices in decline, we believe that there is a need for a low-cost, effective alternative to electronic and expensive disposable intravenous (&#8220;IV&#8221;) administration devices for home care.

The ambulatory infusion market has been rapidly changing due to reimbursement issues. Insurance reimbursement has drastically reduced the market share of high-end electronic type delivery systems as well as high-cost disposable non-electric devices, providing an opportunity for the FREEDOM60. We believe market pressures have moved specialty pharmacies to consider alternatives to expensive electronic systems especially for new subcutaneous administrations, which usually cannot be done with gravity. For cost concerns, some patients have been trained to administer intravenous drugs through IV push where the drug is pushed into the vein directly from a syringe. This is a low-cost option but has been associated with complications and is considered by many to be a higher-risk procedure. Thus, the overall trend has been towards syringe pumps due to the low-cost of disposables.

There is evidence that indications for SCIg therapy will continue to expand to other disease states. Manufacturers of various IgG medications have conducted, and are in process of conducting, trials of their drugs for applications other than primary immune deficiency diseases. To the extent that these trials are successful and the FDA approves these new indications for use, we could see additional sales opportunities in the future.

On May 21, 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (&#8220;HHS&#8221;) announced the addition of Severe Combined Immune Deficiency (&#8220;SCID&#8221;), a primary immunodeficiency disease, to the recommended uniform screening of newborns. The Immune Deficiency Foundation (IDF) has strongly supported and worked tirelessly toward this goal for many years. As of April 1, 2016, 37 states have added SCID to their uniform newborn screening**. As more states add this screening, we could see additional sales opportunities in the future. 

*Ref: www.nhia.org/faqs.cfm and http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10426.pdf

** Ref: http://primaryimmune.org/idf-advocacy-center/idf-scid-newborn-screening-campaign/

- 6 -

INSURANCE REIMBURSEMENT 

There can be no assurance that Medicare will continue to provide reimbursement for the FREEDOM60. They may allow reimbursement for other infusion pumps that are currently in the market or new ones that may enter shortly, which could adversely affect our sales into this market.

In order to receive more favorable Medicare reimbursement for the FREEDOM60, we submitted a formal request for a Healthcare Common Procedures Coding System (&#8220;HCPCS&#8221;) coding verification with the Statistical Analysis Durable Medical Equipment Regional Carrier (&#8220;SADMERC&#8221;). It was the determination that the Medicare HCPCS code(s) to bill the four Durable Medical Regional Carriers (&#8220;DMERC&#8217;s&#8221;) should be: &#8220;E0779 Ambulatory infusion pump, mechanical, reusable, for infusion 8 hours or greater.&#8221; This code provides reimbursement for the FREEDOM60 for billable syringe pump application approved by Medicare. Current approved uses under Medicare include among others, subcutaneous immune globulin, antivirals, antifungals, and chemotherapeutics.

Effects, if any, of the federal government&#8217;s Public Law 111-148, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, on reimbursements for infusion pumps and related supplies and services cannot be stated with certainty at this time. 

We are also closely watching for the effects of the Medicare Home Infusion Site of Care Act of 2015, which intends to amend the Social Security Act to allow the home to be a covered infusion site of care for Medicare beneficiaries. If passed, it would take effect starting in 2016. Currently, it appears the bill would encourage greater utilization of home infusion, increasing the potential market for FREEDOM60.

COMPETITION 

The FREEDOM60

Competition for the FREEDOM60 for IgG includes electrically powered infusion devices, which are more costly and can create high pressures during delivery, which can cause complications for the administration of IgG. However, there can be no assurance that other companies, including those with greater resources, will not enter the market with competitive products which will have an adverse effect on our sales.

There is the potential for new drugs to enter the market which might change the market conditions for devices such as the FREEDOM60 and RMS HIgH-Flo Subcutaneous Safety Needle Sets (e.g. Hyaluronidase, which can facilitate absorption of IgG, making multiple site infusions unnecessary). We believe dynamic equilibrium (the principle behind the FREEDOM60) is ideal for new drug combinations, and that they might increase the size of the subcutaneous market, but there can be no assurance that newer drugs will have the same needs and requirements as the current drugs being used. 

We are currently involved in legal proceedings with a competitor who has been offering accessories that can be used with the FREEDOM60 (see Item 3 &#8211; Legal Proceedings).

The RES-Q-VAC

We believe that the RES-Q-VAC is currently the performance leader for manual, portable suction instruments. In the emergency market, the primary competition is the V-VAC&#8482; from Laerdal Medical. The V-VAC&#8482; is more difficult to use, cannot suction infants, and cannot be used while wearing heavy gloves such as in chemical warfare or in the extreme cold. Another competitor is the Ambu&#174; Res-Cue Pump&#8482;, a lower-cost product similar to our design, made in China. We believe that the product is not as well made, as ergonomic, nor as versatile, and may not be purchased by the military segment of the market due to lines of supply concerns. We believe that Full Stop Protection substantially separates the RES-Q-VAC from competitive units, which tend to leak fluid when becoming full or could pass airborne pathogens during use. There is a heightened concern from health care professionals concerning exposure to disease and we believe the RES-Q-VAC provides improved protection for these users.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Full Stop Protection meets the requirement of OSHA described below. The Company has received a letter from OSHA confirming that the RES-Q-VAC with Full Stop Protection falls under the engineering controls of the blood borne pathogen regulation and that the products use would fulfill the regulatory requirements.

- 7 -

OSHA 29 Code of Federal Regulations 1910.1030 - Occupational Exposure to Blood borne Pathogens requires that employers of &#8220;... emergency medical technicians, paramedics, and other emergency medical service providers; fire fighters, law enforcement personnel, and correctional officers ... must consider and implement devices that are appropriate [to contain blood borne pathogens], commercially available and effective.&#8221; These first responders risk exposure to serious disease, and the employers may risk OSHA violations and lawsuits if they fail to consider protective measures such as our Full Stop Protection for RES-Q-VAC. The Company has received a letter from OSHA indicating that RES-Q-VAC meets the intent of this regulation.

The FDA governs the development and manufacturing of all medical products. The FDA requires us to register our manufacturing facility, list our devices, file notice of intent to market new products, track the locations of certain products and to report any incidents of death or serious injury relating to the products with the FDA. We could become subject to civil and criminal penalties and/or recall seizure or injunctions if we fail to comply with regulations of the FDA.

We are required to comply with federal, state, and local environmental laws; however, there is no significant effect of compliance on capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We do not use significant amounts of hazardous materials in the assembly of these products.

Periodically we are subject to inspections and audits by FDA inspectors and could be impacted by adverse findings. The last quality review by the FDA was in June 2015, which included, among other items, a review of complaints, quality controls, and documentation. The FDA inspection was expanded as a consequence of an extensive &#8220;trade complaint&#8221; which resulted in the issuance of an FDA FORM 483 in June 2015. Eight months later, on February 29, 2016 we then received a Warning Letter. The Company responded and replied to the Warning Letter on March 18, 2016 and continues to have correspondence and dialog with the agency in order to satisfy all of FDA&#8217;s concerns cited in the Warning Letter. The timeframe to close out all of the items in the letter with the FDA could take at least six months. As explained by the FDA in its Regulatory Procedure Manual Chapter 4, an FDA Warning Letter &#8220;&#8230;is informal and advisory&#8221;; &#8220;does not commit FDA to taking enforcement action&#8221;; and &#8220;FDA does not consider Warning Letters to be final agency action.&#8221;

The Company is International Organization for Standardization (&#8220;ISO&#8221;) 13845:2003 certified. Our new registrar is BSI.

MANUFACTURING 

The Company&#8217;s employees perform the following operations at the Company&#8217;s Chester, NY facility: electromechanical assembly, calibration, pre- and post-assembly quality control inspection and testing, and final packaging for all products. Products are assembled using molded plastic parts acquired from several U.S. vendors and two suppliers located in Taiwan. We also have a contractor, operating in Nicaragua, which makes certain subassemblies that we subsequently incorporate into final products in our Chester, NY, facility. The availability of parts has not been a problem. The cost and time required to fabricate molds to manufacture parts can slow the development of new products and might temporarily limit supply if we determine it is advisable to seek alternate sources of supply for existing products. Our policy has been to have multiple sources of supply, where practicable, that also offer mold-building capabilities as a service.

EMPLOYEES 

As of February 29, 2016, we had 55 full time employees. 

The Company carries insurance on the life of Andrew Sealfon, Chief Executive Officer, providing a death benefit of $3.1 million. 

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS 

We have filed and received U.S. protection for many of our products and, in some cases where it was no longer deemed economically beneficial, we have allowed certain patent protections to lapse. The patent position of small companies is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Consequently, there can be no assurance that patent applications relating to products or technology will result in patents being granted or that, if issued, the patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, some patent licenses held may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events or become non-exclusive after a specified period. There can be no assurance that we will have the financial resources necessary to enforce any patent rights we may hold. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for details regarding our patent litigation.

- 8 -

