 Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

Background 

Key Tronic Corporation (dba: KeyTronicEMS Co.) was organized in 1969, as a Washington corporation that locally manufactured computer keyboards. The ability to design, build and deliver a quality product led us to become a leading independent manufacturer of keyboards for computers in the United States. Our fully integrated design, tooling, and automated manufacturing capabilities enabled us to rapidly respond to customers&#8217; needs for keyboards in production quantities worldwide. We supported our sales growth through the development and purchase of international manufacturing facilities. As the computer keyboard market matured with increasing competition from other international providers, we determined that our business could no longer solely rely on keyboard sales. 

After assessing market conditions and our strengths and capabilities, we shifted our focus from keyboard manufacturing to contract manufacturing for a wide range of products. Our unique strategic attributes are based on our core strengths of innovative design and engineering expertise in electronics, mechanical engineering, sheet metal fabrication and stamping, and precision plastics combined with high-quality, low cost production, and assembly on an international basis while providing exceptional customer service. These strengths have made our company a strong competitor in the electronic manufacturing services (EMS) market. 

Acquisitions 

On September 3, 2014, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of CDR Manufacturing, Inc. (dba Ayrshire Electronics), which added five locations (four in North America and one in Mexico). This acquisition expanded our printed circuit board assembly capacity, total revenue, and adds to and diversifies our customer base with the addition of many new multi-national companies. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Reynosa, Mexico operations were transferred to the Company&#8217;s existing Juarez, Mexico facilities. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we announced a plan to close the Harrodsburg, Kentucky facility which is expected to occur by the end of the first quarter of 2017. Most of our customer programs from the Harrodsburg, Kentucky facility are being transferred to other Key Tronic facilities. 

On July 1, 2013, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Sabre Assembly &#38; Manufacturing Co. of Texas (&#8220;Sabre&#8221;), a sheet metal fabrication company with facilities located in Juarez, Mexico. We have made substantial investments in our sheet metal fabrication capabilities and capacity and will continue to do so as customer demands increase and evolve. The significant investment in sheet metal capabilities enables the Company to offer metal fabrication directly to its customers, in combination with plastic molding, PCB assembly, complete product assembly, design engineering and testing engineering services. 

Our Industry and Strategy 

The expansion of the EMS industry and our acquisitions have allowed us to continue to expand our customer base and the industries that we serve. The increase in new programs represents a growing portion of our revenue and a promising foundation for our future. In keeping with our long-term strategic objectives, we have been successfully building a more diversified customer portfolio, spanning a wider range of industries. We currently offer our customers the following services: integrated electronic and mechanical engineering, precision plastic molding, sheet metal fabrication, printed circuit board (PCB) and complete product assembly, component selection, sourcing and procurement, worldwide logistics, and new product testing and production all at competitive pricing due to our global footprint. 

We believe that we are well positioned in the EMS industry to continue the expansion of our customer base and achieve long term growth. Our unique blend of multinational facilities, vertical integration, centralized management, and core strengths continue to support our growth and our customers&#8217; needs. We continue to focus on controlling operating expenses and leveraging the synergistic capabilities of our world-class facilities in the United States, Mexico, and China. This international production capability provides our customers with the benefits of improved supply-chain management, reduced inventory, lower labor costs, lower transportation costs, and reduced product fulfillment time. Given our competitive advantages and the growing pressure for new potential customers to move forward with their outsourcing strategies, we are strongly positioned to win new business in coming periods and grow our revenue and profits. 

The EMS industry is intensely competitive. Although our customer base is growing, we still have less than 1% of the potential global market and our revenue can fluctuate significantly due to reliance on a concentrated base of customers. We are planning for new customer growth in the coming quarters by securing new programs with new and existing customers, increasing our worldwide manufacturing capacity, and continuing to improve our manufacturing and procurement processes. Ongoing challenges that we face include but are not limited to the following: Continuing to win programs from new and existing customers, balancing capital employed, production capacity and key personnel in support of new customer programs, improving operating efficiencies, controlling costs while developing competitive pricing strategies, and successfully transitioning new program wins to full production. 

Customers and Marketing 

We provide a mix of manufacturing services for outsourced Original Equipment Manufacturing (OEM) products. We provide the following EMS services: Product design, surface mount technologies (SMT) and pin through hole capability for printed circuit board assembly, tool making, precision plastic molding, sheet metal fabrication, liquid injection molding, complex assembly, automated tape winding, prototype design and full product assembly. 

Sales of the majority of our products have not historically been seasonal in nature, but may be seasonal in the future if there are changes in the types of products manufactured. Sales can, however, fluctuate significantly between quarters from changes in customers and customer demand due to the concentration of sales generated by our largest customers. 

For the fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the five largest customers in each year accounted for 41%, 42% and 62% of combined total net sales, respectively. The decrease in concentration compared to 2014 was primarily the result of the acquisition of Ayrshire as well as the impact of the reduction in production levels for a certain longstanding customer. We continue to diversify our customer base by adding additional programs and customers. We expect net sales to our five largest customers as a percentage of total net sales to approximate current levels going forward. 

The following table represents all customers that represented 10% or more of total net sales during the last three fiscal years: 

&#160; 

Percentage of Net Sales by Fiscal Year 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Customer A 

18% 

&#160; 

17% 

&#160; 

20% 

Customer B 

* 

&#160; 

* 

&#160; 

15% 

Customer C 

* 

&#160; 

* 

&#160; 

15% 

* Current customer amount represents less than 10%. 

There can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s principal customers will continue to purchase products from the Company at current levels. Moreover, the Company typically does not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with its customers, and the Company&#8217;s customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. The loss of one or more of the Company&#8217;s major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from such customers, could materially and adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, operating results and financial condition. 

We market our products and services primarily through our direct sales department which is comprised of strategically located field sales people and distributors. We also maintain relationships with several independent sales organizations to assist in marketing our EMS product lines. 

Manufacturing 

We have continually made investments in developing and expanding a capital equipment base to achieve vertical integration and efficiencies in our manufacturing processes. We have invested significant capital into SMT for volume manufacturing of complex printed circuit board assemblies and in our metal shop providing precision metal stamping, fabricating, and finishing. We also design and develop tooling for injection molding and sheet metal fabrication and manufacture the majority of plastic and sheet metal parts used in the products we manufacture. Additionally, we have equipment to maintain a controlled clean environment for manufacturing processes that require a high level of precise control. 

We use a variety of manual and automated assembly processes in our facilities, depending upon product complexity and degree of customization. Some examples of automated processes include component insertion, SMT, selective soldering, flexible robotic assembly, automated storage tape winding, computerized vision system quality inspection, laser turrets, automated switch and key top installation, and automated functional testing. 

Our engineering expertise and automated manufacturing processes enable us to work closely with our customers during the design and prototype stages of production and to jointly increase productivity and reduce response time to the marketplace. We use computer-aided design techniques and software to assist in preparation of the tool design layout and component placement, to reduce tooling and production costs, improve component and product quality, and enhance turnaround time during product development. 

We purchase materials and components for our products from many different suppliers, including both domestic and international sources. We develop close working relationships with our suppliers, many of whom have been supplying products to us for several years. 

Research, Development, and Engineering 

As part of our long-term strategy, we are committed to supporting our customers by providing research, development, and engineering services. These services allow us to facilitate in optimizing new product designs, and the production processes of our customers' programs. 

Research, development, and engineering (RD&#38;E) expenses consist principally of employee related costs, third party development costs, program materials costs, depreciation, and allocated information technology and facilities costs. 

Competition 

The market for the products and services we provide is highly competitive. There are numerous competitors in the EMS industry, many of which have substantially more resources and are more geographically diverse than we are. Some of our competitors have similar international production capabilities, large financial resources and some have substantially greater manufacturing, research and development, and marketing resources. There is also competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing their products internally versus the advantages of outsourcing. We believe that we can currently compete favorably in these areas primarily on the basis of our international footprint, responsiveness, creativity, vertical production capability, quality, and cost. 

Trademarks 

Our name and logo are federally registered trademarks, and we believe they are valuable assets of our business. We operate under the trade name &#8220;KeyTronicEMS&#8221; to better identify our primary business concentration in contract manufacturing in the EMS industry. 

Employees 

We consider our employees to be our primary strength and we make considerable efforts to maintain a well-qualified workforce. Our employee benefits include bonus programs involving periodic payments to all employees based on meeting quarterly or fiscal year performance targets. We regularly provide transportation, medical services, and meals to all of our employees in foreign locations. The Company also has defined contribution plans available to U.S. employees who have attained age 21 and provide group health, life, and disability insurance plans. We also maintain share based compensation plans and other long term incentive plans for certain employees and outside directors. 

As of July 2, 2016 &#32;we had 4,947 &#32;employees compared to 4,866 &#32;on June 27, 2015 , and 3,343 &#32;on June 28, 2014 . Since we can have significant fluctuations in product demand, we seek to maintain flexibility in our workforce by utilizing skilled temporary and short-term contract labor in our manufacturing facilities in addition to full-time employees. 

Backlog 

On July 30, 2016 our order backlog was valued at approximately $122.2 million, compared to approximately $115.2 million on July 24, 2015. The amount of backlog is not necessarily indicative of future sales but can be indicative of trends in expected future sales revenue. Due to the relationships with our customers, we will occasionally allow orders to be canceled or rescheduled and as a result it is not a meaningful indicator of future financial results. If there are canceled or rescheduled orders, we typically negotiate fees to cover the costs we have incurred. Order backlog consists of purchase orders received for products expected to be shipped approximately within the next twelve months, although shipment dates are subject to change due to design modifications, customer forecast changes, or other customer requirements. 

Foreign Markets 

Information concerning net sales and long-lived assets (property, plant, and equipment) by geographic areas is set forth in Note 12, &#8220;Enterprise-Wide Disclosures&#8221; of the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and that information is incorporated herein. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The table below sets forth the name, current age and current position of our executive officers and other significant employees: 

Name 

Age 

Positions Held 

Executive Officers 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Craig D. Gates 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Brett R. Larsen 

Executive Vice President of Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 

Douglas G. Burkhardt 

Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations 

Philip S. Hochberg 

Executive Vice President of Business Development 

Lawrence J. Bostwick 

Vice President of Engineering and Quality 

Frank Crispigna III 

Vice President of Materials 

Duane D. Mackleit 

Vice President of Program Management 

Executive Officers 

CRAIG D. GATES &#32;&#8211; President and Chief Executive Officer 

Mr. Gates, age 57 , has been President and Chief Executive officer of the Company since April 2009. Previously, he was Executive Vice President and General Manager from August 2002 to April 2009. He served as Executive Vice President of Marketing, Engineering and Sales from July 1997 to August 2002 and served as Vice President and General Manager of New Business Development from October 1995 to July 1997. He joined the Company as Vice President of Engineering in October of 1994. From 1982 to 1991 he held various engineering and management positions within the Microswitch Division of Honeywell, Inc., in Freeport, Illinois, and from 1991 to October 1994 he served as Director of Operations, Electronics for Microswitch. Mr. Gates has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Illinois, Urbana. 

BRETT R. LARSEN &#32;&#8211; Executive Vice President of Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 

Mr. Larsen, age 43 , has served as Executive Vice President of Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since July 2015. Previously, he was Vice President of Finance and Controller from February 2010 to July 2015. He was Chief Financial Officer of FLSmidth Spokane, Inc. from December 2008 to February 2010. From October 2005 through November 2008, Mr. Larsen served as Controller of Key Tronic Corporation. From May 2004 to October 2005, Mr. Larsen served as Manager of Financial Reporting of Key Tronic Corporation. From 2002 to May 2004, Mr. Larsen was an audit manager for the public accounting firm BDO USA, LLP. He also held various auditing and supervisory positions with Grant Thornton LLP from 1997 to 2002. Mr. Larsen has a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting and a Masters degree in Accounting from Brigham Young University and is a Certified Public Accountant. 

DOUGLAS G. BURKHARDT &#32;&#8211; Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations 

Mr. Burkhardt, age 58 , has been Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations of the Company since July 2010. Previously Mr. Burkhardt was Vice President of Worldwide Operations from July 2008 to July 2010 and Director of China Operations and Program Management from January 2006 to July 2008. Mr. Burkhardt also served as Director of Northwest and China Operations from November of 1998 to January of 2006. Mr. Burkhardt also served as Director of Customer Satisfaction from March 1997 to November 1998 and Director of Molding from September of 1995 to March of 1997. Prior to this, Mr. Burkhardt served in other various senior management positions within the Company. Mr. Burkhardt has been with the Company since May of 1989. Prior to joining Key Tronic, Mr. Burkhardt worked for House of Aluminum and Glass for 12 years where he was the plant manager. 

PHILIP S. HOCHBERG &#32;&#8211; Executive Vice President of Business Development 

Mr. Hochberg, age 54 , has been Executive Vice President of Business Development since July 2012. Prior to this, Mr. Hochberg served as Vice President of Business Development from October 2009 through June 2012. He was Director of Business Development and Program Management from July 2008 to October 2009. Mr. Hochberg served as Director of Business Development from October 2004 to July 2008 and as Director of EMS Sales and Marketing from July 2000 to October 2004. Prior to joining Key Tronic, Mr. Hochberg worked for Quinton Instrument Company as their Director of Marketing and Product Management from 1992 to 2000. From 1988 to 1992, he was employed by SpaceLabs Medical as their Business Development Marketing Manager. Mr. Hochberg has an MBA from the University of British Columbia, a BA in Psychology, with a minor in Business from Washington University in St. Louis. 

LAWRENCE J. BOSTWICK &#32;&#8211; Vice President of Engineering and Quality 

Mr. Bostwick, age 64 , has been Vice President of Engineering and Quality since July 2008. Previously he was Director of Engineering and Quality from February 2007 to July 2008 and served as Corporate Director of Quality from February 2006 to February 2007. From 2003 to 2006 he was Director of Supply Chain Management and Quality for the Lancer Corporation and from 1998 to 2003 he was Vice President of Operations for Thermacore International. He is a graduate of the Westinghouse and General Electric &#8211; Engineering and Manufacturing Professional Development Programs. He is certified in both Quality and Industrial Engineering and is a Lean &#8211; Six Sigma Master Black Belt. Mr. Bostwick has a combined B.S. degree in Production and Operation and Industrial Engineering from Bowling Green State University and a Masters degree in Industrial Engineering and Business Administration from Syracuse University. 

FRANK CRISPIGNA III &#32;&#8211; Vice President of Materials 

Mr. Crispigna, age 55 , has been Vice President of Materials of the company since October 2011. Prior to this, Mr. Crispigna held a variety of Materials and Supply Chain positions at Plexus Corporation since 1997, most recently serving as the Director &#8211; Supply Chain Solutions from 2005 - 2011. He has a Masters degree in Business Administration, and a Bachelor of Business Administration Degree in Marketing from the University of Wisconsin &#8211; Oshkosh. Mr. Crispigna also is a C.P.M., and received his certification in Supply Chain Leadership from the University of Wisconsin. 

DUANE D. MACKLEIT &#32;&#8211; Vice President of Program Management 

Mr. Mackleit, age 48 , has been Vice President of Program Management of the company since July 2012. He served as Director of Program Management from July 2008 through June 2012. From May 2006 to July 2008 he served as Principal Program Manager. Prior to that, he served as Program Manager from March 2002 to May 2006 and Associate Program Manager from August 2000 to March 2002. Mr. Mackleit has also held several other positions with Key Tronic Corporation. Mr. Mackleit has an AA in Business from Spokane Falls Community College and a BA in Business/Marketing from Eastern Washington University. He also holds a MBA from Gonzaga University. 

Available Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 4424 North Sullivan Road, Spokane Valley, Washington 99216, and our telephone number is (509) 928-8000. Our website is located at http://www.keytronic.com where filings of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K are available after they have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information presented on our website currently and in the future is not considered to be part of this document or any document incorporated by reference in this document. 

