 ITEM 1. 

Business 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 

In addition to historical facts, this annual report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are merely our current predictions of future events. These statements are inherently uncertain, and actual events could differ materially from our predictions. Important factors that could cause actual events to vary from our predictions include those discussed in this annual report under the headings &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; and &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors.&#8221; We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect new information or developments. We urge readers to review carefully the risk factors described in this annual report and in the other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can read these documents at &#32;www.sec.gov . 

Additional Information Available 

Our principal Internet address is &#32;www.kvh.com . Our website provides a hyperlink to a third-party website through which our annual, quarterly, and current reports, as well as amendments to those reports, are available free of charge. We believe these reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We do not provide any information regarding our SEC filings directly to the third-party website, and we do not check its accuracy or completeness. 

Introduction 

We are a leading manufacturer of solutions that provide global high-speed Internet, television, and voice services via satellite to mobile users at sea and on land. We are also a leading provider of commercially licensed entertainment, including news, sports, music, and movies, to commercial and leisure customers in the maritime, hotel, and retail markets. In addition, as a result of our July 2014 acquisition of Videotel Marine Asia Limited and Super Dragon Limited (together referred to as Videotel), we develop and distribute training films and e-Learning computer-based training courses to commercial maritime customers. We are also a premier manufacturer of high-performance navigational sensors and integrated inertial systems for defense and commercial guidance and stabilization applications. We are headquartered in Middletown, Rhode Island, with active operations in Denmark, Hong Kong, the State of Illinois, Japan, Norway, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. 

Our Products and Services 

We design, develop, manufacture, and market mobile communications products and services for the marine and land mobile markets, and navigation, guidance, and stabilization products for both the commercial and defense markets. 

Mobile Broadband Products 

In the global maritime market, we believe that there is increasing demand for mobile access to television, entertainment, voice services, the Internet, and near real-time operational services such as safety training, navigation chart updates, weather services, and voyage optimization. For both maritime and terrestrial customers that want to access live television while on the move, we offer a comprehensive family of mobile satellite antenna products marketed under the TracVision brand. For access to the Internet and voice services while on the move, which we refer to collectively as our airtime services, we offer a family of mobile satellite antenna products and services marketed under the brands TracPhone and mini-VSAT Broadband. The network infrastructure that we have developed to support our airtime services also supports the delivery of other value-added services over our IP-MobileCast content delivery service for both entertainment and operational needs. 

Our mobile satellite antenna products are typically installed on mobile platforms and use sophisticated robotics, stabilization and control software, sensing technologies, transceiver integration, and advanced antenna designs to automatically search for, identify and point directly at the selected television and communications satellite while the vehicle or vessel is in motion. Our antennas use gyros and inclinometers to measure the pitch, roll and yaw of an antenna platform in relation to the earth. Microprocessors and our proprietary stabilization and control software use that data to compute the antenna movement necessary for the antenna&#8217;s motors to point the antenna properly and maintain contact with the satellite. If an obstruction temporarily blocks the satellite signal, our products continue to track the satellite&#8217;s location according to the movement of the antenna platform in order to carry out automatic, rapid reacquisition of the signal when a direct line of sight to the satellite is restored. 

Table of Contents 

Our Certified Support Network offers our TracVision and TracPhone customers an international network of skilled technical dealers and support centers in many locations where our customers are likely to travel. We have selected distributors based on their technical expertise, professionalism, and commitment to quality, and regularly provide them with extensive training in the sale, installation and support of our products. 

Maritime 

In the marine market, we offer a range of mobile satellite TV and communications products. 

Satellite TV . Our TracVision TV-series satellite TV antennas, launched in mid-2014, are designed with the full spectrum of vessel sizes in mind, ranging from recreational vessels as small as 20 to 25 feet to large commercial vessels. The TV-series replaced a number of our M-series antennas with new antennas that incorporate new features, including an IP-enabled control unit to allow access to system information from any Wi-Fi device. Our family of marine TracVision products includes the 32-cm diameter TracVision TV1, 37-cm diameter TracVision TV3, 45-cm diameter TracVision TV5, and the 60-cm diameter TracVision TV6, each of which employs a high-efficiency circular antenna. In April 2015, we also introduced the 81-cm TracVision TV8. These products are compatible with Ku-band HDTV programming as well as high-powered regional satellite TV services around the globe, based on available signal strength and antenna size requirements. 

Our TracVision HD-series satellite TV antennas are designed to offer a high definition TV experience comparable to that enjoyed by a home DIRECTV HDTV subscriber. Our TracVision HD7 uses a 61-cm diameter satellite TV antenna to receive signals from two DIRECTV Ka-band satellites and one DIRECTV Ku-band satellite simultaneously. It includes an Internet Protocol-enabled antenna control unit as well as optional antenna control via a free TracVision application for use on an Apple iPhone or iPad. We believe the TracVision HD7 was the first marine antenna to offer this combination of capabilities. Our TracVision HD11 offers a worldwide satellite TV capability through the use of a 1-meter diameter antenna and a global low noise block designed for use with the majority of direct-to-home satellite TV services. As a result, it is able to receive all Ku-band and DIRECTV Ka-band satellite television signals without changing out hardware elements. The Ku-band also works with modern satellite television services currently available in the world. The Ka-band will receive DIRECTV HDTV. Like the TracVision HD7, it features a customer application for the Apple iPhone or iPad to provide easy control of the system. 

Satellite Phone and Internet . &#32;Our mini-VSAT Broadband network offers an end-to-end solution for offshore connectivity. This unified C/Ku-band Broadband service enables us to offer commercial, leisure, and government customers an integrated hardware and service solution for mobile communications and seamless region-to-region roaming. We design and manufacture the onboard TracPhone V-IP terminals, own the hub equipment installed in leased earth stations, lease the satellite capacity, manage the network through third-party service providers, and provide 24/7/365 after-sale support. Because we manufacture the onboard hardware, we can integrate the full rack of discrete below decks equipment typically used on traditional VSAT systems into a single, streamlined unit that is significantly easier to deploy than competing VSAT solutions. Our mini-VSAT Broadband network utilizes ArcLight spread spectrum modem technology developed by ViaSat. This spread spectrum approach reduces the broadcast power requirements and the pointing accuracy necessary to track the C- and Ku-band satellites that carry the service. The resulting efficiencies allowed us to develop and bring to market our TracPhone V-IP terminals. Our 60-cm diameter TracPhone V7-IP Ku-band antenna is 85% smaller by volume and 75% lighter than alternative 1-meter diameter VSAT antennas. Our 37-cm diameter TracPhone V3-IP Ku-band antenna is practical for use on smaller vessels as well as land vehicles. We believe that the TracPhone V3 is the smallest maritime VSAT system currently available. Our dual-mode TracPhone V11-IP antenna seamlessly tracks both C- and Ku-band satellites, making it the only 1-meter diameter maritime VSAT antenna to deliver seamless global coverage outside the far polar regions. 

We are actively engaged in sales efforts for the TracPhone V-IP Series and mini-VSAT Broadband service to government agencies for maritime, military, and emergency responder use. In September 2010, the U.S. Coast Guard awarded us a 10-year contract valued at up to $42 million to supply TracPhone V7 systems and mini-VSAT Broadband airtime to as many as 216 U.S. Coast Guard cutters. As of December 31, 2015, we have supplied TracPhone V7 and V7-IP systems for 113 U.S. Coast Guard vessels. We also continue to expand our ability to support the commercial maritime market. In March 2011, we signed a contract to provide TracPhone V7 and mini-VSAT Broadband service to Vroon B.V. and its fleet of more than 125 commercial vessels and, as of December 31, 2015, approximately 125 systems have shipped. In March 2012, V.Ships, the world&#8217;s largest independent ship manager serving a fleet of over 1,000 vessels, selected our mini-VSAT Broadband service as its preferred satellite communications solution. In June 2012, Tokyo-based shipping and logistics company, Nippon Yusen Kaisha (NYK Line), selected our TracPhone V7 and mini-VSAT Broadband service and, as of December 31, 2015, approximately 140 systems have shipped. 

We also offer CommBox, a ship-to-shore network management product that comprises shipboard hardware, a KVH-hosted or privately owned shore-based hub, and a suite of software applications. CommBox offers a range of tools designed to 

Table of Contents 

increase communication efficiency, reduce costs, and manage network operations. Key functions include web and data compression and optimization to increase network capacity; remote PC management for customer IT departments; integrated e-mail, firewalls, and security; least-cost routing; and bandwidth management on multiple communication carriers. Since September 2013, we have offered the CommBox functionality as an option for all TracPhone V-IP Series products through software accompanying the integrated Commbox modem. We receive subscription fees related to the selected software applications and monthly system maintenance fees. Because we offer this integrated solution, we no longer generate meaningful revenue from sales of standalone CommBox hardware. 

We also offer Iridium OpenPort hardware and service to be used in conjunction with our mini-VSAT service. Iridium OpenPort service provides data rates up to 128Kbps and covers the entire world, including the polar regions. We offer the Iridium hardware and service along with our own mini-VSAT solution with the integrated CommBox functionality, which will switch over to the Iridium service if the mini-VSAT service is not available. Our customers might choose to add the Iridium service to expand the geographic coverage of the system or as a backup service. 

In addition to our TracPhone VSAT products and mini-VSAT Broadband service, we also offer a family of Inmarsat-compatible TracPhone products that provide in-motion access to global satellite communications. These products rely on services offered by Inmarsat, a satellite service provider that supports links for phone, fax, and data communications as fast as 432 Kbps. The TracPhone FB150, FB250, and FB500 antennas use the Inmarsat FleetBroadband service to offer voice as well as high-speed Internet service. The TracPhone FB150, FB250, FB500 and FleetOne products are manufactured by Thrane &#38; Thrane A/S of Denmark (acquired by Cobham) and distributed on an OEM basis by us in North America under our TracPhone brand and distributed in other markets on a non-exclusive basis. 

Unlike mini-VSAT Broadband, where we control and sell the airtime, we purchase Inmarsat and Iridium airtime from a distributor and resell it to our customers. 

Land Mobile 

We design, manufacture, and sell a range of TracVision satellite TV antenna systems for use on a broad array of vehicles, including recreational vehicles, buses, conversion vans, and automobiles. 

In the RV and bus markets, we offer TracVision satellite TV products, intended for both stationary and in-motion use. Our TracVision R1 delivers DIRECTV or DISH network service through a small 32-cm diameter dome. Our TracVision A9, introduced in January 2015 as a replacement for the DIRECTV-only TracVision A7, uses hybrid phased-array antenna technology to provide in-motion reception of satellite TV programming in the continental United States using either the DIRECTV or DISH Network services. The TracVision A9 stands approximately five inches high and mounts either to a vehicle&#8217;s roof rack or directly to the vehicle&#8217;s roof, making it practical for use aboard minivans, SUVs and other passenger vehicles. The TracVision A9 includes a mobile satellite television antenna and an IP-enabled TV hub for easy system configuration and control via Wi-Fi devices, such as an Apple iPhone or iPad. The TracVision A9 is also suitable for tall motor coaches and buses. Automotive customers subscribe to DIRECTV&#8217;s TOTAL CHOICE MOBILE satellite TV programming package, which is specifically promoted for automotive applications, or to DISH Network programming. Local channels and network programming are also available as an option for TracVision A9 users as a result of the system&#8217;s integrated GPS. At this time, we are the only company authorized by DIRECTV to sell, promote, and activate automotive users for the TOTAL CHOICE MOBILE programming package. 

Airtime Services 

In addition to our mobile satellite antenna hardware and software, we offer airtime plans that enable customers to obtain Internet and voice services. We offer a variety of rate plans that typically require an initial commitment of one or more years with a one-year auto-renewal feature. In October 2015, we introduced mini-VSAT Broadband 2.0, our second generation mini-VSAT service. The key features of the new service are new airtime plans, a new network management portal and a new comprehensive global customer support program. Our new airtime plans are a series of usage-based plans, designed around each ship's monthly data requirements for operational and crew needs, that deliver data at higher speeds. Our new network management portal, myKVH, is a secure portal that enables a ship operator to manage network usage by vessel or by individual crew members by allocating operational and crew data caps while receiving customized usage alerts. For customers that want the certainty of a fixed monthly price, we continue to provide fixed rate plans that vary depending on data speeds and include protocol restrictions, such as limiting those that stream video content. User speeds are also restricted but not stopped when users reach established data use thresholds. In addition, we offer multiple metered plans that are either billed monthly based on the data consumed without any application or protocol blocking or based on a monthly minimum data quota with the option to add more data for an incremental charge. The TracPhone V3-IP requires a metered plan while the TracPhone V7-IP and V11-IP 

Table of Contents 

can support any plan. 

The high bandwidth offered by the Ku-band satellites also permits faster data rates than those supported by Inmarsat&#8217;s L-band satellites. TracPhone V7-IP and V11-IP customers may select service packages with Internet data connections offering ship-to-shore satellite data rates as fast as 1 megabit per second, or Mbps, and shore-to-ship satellite data rates as fast as 4 Mbps. The TracPhone V3-IP, due to its smaller dish diameter, offers ship-to-shore data rates as fast as 128 kilobits per second, or Kbps, and shore-to-ship satellite data rates as fast as 2 Mbps. In addition, subscriptions include Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephone services optimized for use over satellite connections. The TracPhone V7-IP and V11-IP can support two or more simultaneous calls while the TracPhone V3-IP can support one call at a time. 

Our mini-VSAT Broadband network currently uses a combination of 22 Ku-band and three global C-band transponders on 18 satellites to provide coverage throughout the northern hemisphere and all of the major continents in the southern hemisphere. We currently offer our Ku-band mini-VSAT Broadband service in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, and Australian and New Zealand waters. It is our long-term plan to continue to invest in and enhance our mini-VSAT Broadband network. In March 2015, we expanded our capacity in the Asia-Pacific and Pacific Northwest regions and doubled our mini-VSAT broadband network capacity in eastern Canada and U.S. coastal regions. In December 2015, we more than doubled our broadband capacity in the North Atlantic Ocean region and added a new beam across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, effectively adding 30% more capacity. Under the terms of our revenue sharing arrangement with ViaSat, these types of expansions position us to earn revenue not only from the maritime and land-based use of the mini-VSAT Broadband service but also from aeronautical applications that roam throughout our network. 

In June 2015, we implemented a global private multiprotocol label switching (MPLS) network connecting all of our teleports and satellite beams. We believe that transitioning from the public Internet to a private MPLS network will provide increased security, enhanced quality of service and increased network reliability and uptime for our customers. 

Advanced Media &#38; Services 

We offer a variety of value-added services to our maritime customers as well as news content to our hotel customers and radio content to a small number of retail customers. The vast majority of these value-added services are subscription-based. We also off a variety of engineering and program management services to certain customers that purchase our guidance and stabilization products. 

In May 2013, we acquired Headland Media Limited (now known as KVH Media Group), a media and entertainment service company based in the United Kingdom that distributes commercially licensed entertainment, including news, sports, music, and movies, to commercial and leisure customers in the maritime, hotel, and retail markets. Sales from KVH Media Group are included in our mobile broadband services sales. Our &#8220;news from home&#8221; digital newspaper service includes more than 100 daily newspapers in more than 20 languages that at the end of 2015 was delivered to more than 8,500 commercial ships, hotels, and cruise ships. The digital content can be printed onboard or viewed on a tablet, smartphone, or laptop. For movie content, we are an approved distributor of licensed content for certain major Hollywood, Bollywood, and independent studios. For television content, we are an approved distributor for certain major TV studios worldwide. 

In July 2014, we acquired Videotel, a leading provider of high-quality training films and e-Learning services for the commercial maritime industry. Servicing over 12,000 vessels at the end of 2015, Videotel offers video, animation, e-Learning computer-based training (CBT) and interactive distance learning services. Certification and refresher courses are mandated by international regulations and, at the end of 2015, more than 10 million training hours of Videotel content had been delivered to over 300,000 registered crew members. Sales from Videotel are included in our mobile broadband service sales. 

In late 2014, we launched a new content delivery service called IP-MobileCast. Content and data files are transmitted using a sophisticated multicast technology across our global satellite network to every vessel or mobile vehicle that has an active, compatible TracPhone V series or V-IP series terminal. The content is either stored on the terminal itself or on a KVH-supplied media server, which is required for digital rights managed content such as movies and Videotel content. This delivery mechanism reduces the amount of bandwidth required to transmit large files to a large population of customers. Before multicasting, large data files were generally transmitted across satellite networks &#8220;on demand&#8221; or unicast, which consumes significant bandwidth. Moreover, copyright law requires permission from the rights holder for exhibitions of copyrighted film and television. Historically, studios have granted KVH Media Group permission to license non-theatrical exhibitions aboard ships. While traditionally we have licensed this content to commercial maritime customers through the distribution of DVDs, we have now automated the transmission of this type of entertainment via IP-MobileCast. 

Customers that subscribe to one of our entertainment packages generally receive a variety of movie and television 

Table of Contents 

content that is cached locally onboard with unlimited onboard viewing for a year. We transmit 124 thirty-minute local &#8220;news from home&#8221; segments in a variety of languages on a daily basis, up to 20 movies a month plus daily sports and news clips and special programming such as the highlights of sporting events. 

We also offer a variety of operational services through IP-MobileCast. Subscribers to the Videotel training and e-Learning content can also receive new content over the IP-MobileCast network through TRAININGlink, whereby customers receive new content more frequently than once a year. As part of our CHARTlink service, we transmit electronic chart updates for ECDIS solution providers Transas and Jeppesen. For our FORECASTlink service, we transmit global forecasts and high-resolution weather data provided by AWT. Our charting and weather forecasting services provide critical content for voyage optimization. 

In addition, we offer professional services for our VSAT products that include network design, installation of onboard TracPhone terminals and custom configuration of the CommBox based on customer requirements. These services are performed by our employees as well as a dealer network of certified engineers. 

Guidance and Stabilization Products 

We offer a portfolio of digital compass and fiber optic gyro (FOG)-based systems that address the rigorous requirements of military and commercial customers. Our systems provide reliable, easy-to-use and continuously available navigation and pointing data. Our guidance and stabilization products include our FOG-based inertial measurement units (IMUs) for precision guidance, FOGs for tactical navigation as well as pointing and stabilization systems, and digital compasses that provide accurate heading information for demanding applications. 

Guidance and Stabilization 

Our high-performance digital signal processing (DSP)-based FOG products use an all-fiber design that has no moving parts, resulting in an affordable combination of precision, accuracy, and durability. Our FOG products support a broad range of military applications, including stabilization of remote weapons stations, antennas, radar, optical devices, or turrets; image stabilization and synchronization for shoulder-or tripod-mounted weapon simulators; precision tactical navigation systems for military vehicles, and guidance for weapons and unmanned autonomous vehicles. Our FOG products are also used in numerous commercial products, such as navigation and positioning systems for various applications including precision mapping, dynamic surveying, autonomous vehicles, train location control and track geometry measurement systems, industrial robotics, and optical stabilization. 

Our TG-6000 IMU is a guidance system that provides precise measurement of motion and acceleration in three dimensions. It uses a three-axis configuration of our FOGs integrated with three accelerometers. We believe that this configuration provides outstanding performance, high reliability, low maintenance and easy system integration. The TG-6000 IMU is a component in the U.S. Navy&#8217;s MK54 lightweight torpedo and is suitable for use in other applications that involve flight control, orientation, instrumentation, and navigation, such as unmanned aerial vehicles. The CG-5100, our first commercial-grade IMU, is suitable for a wide range of applications such as 3D augmented reality, mobile mapping, platform navigation, and GPS augmentation for unmanned vehicle programs, precise mapping, and imagery. 

Our CNS-5000 continuous navigation system is a self-contained navigation system that combines our FOG-based inertial measurement technology with GPS technology from NovAtel. This navigation solution provides precise position and orientation of a host platform on a continuous basis, even during periods where GPS signals are blocked by natural or man-made obstructions or conditions. The CNS-5000 is designed for demanding commercial applications, such as dynamic surveying, mobile mapping, precision agriculture, container terminal management, and autonomous vehicle navigation, where the ability to determine the precise position and orientation of a piece of equipment or a mobile platform is critical. The CNS-5000 is a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) product consisting of a FOG-based inertial measurement unit tightly integrated with GPS within a single enclosure. This design reduces the operational complexities for customers whose products cross international boundaries. 

Our open-loop DSP-1750, DSP-3000, and DSP-4000 FOGs provide precision measurement of the rate and angle of a platform&#8217;s turning motion for significantly less cost than competing closed-loop gyros. These DSP-based products deliver performance superior to analog signal processing devices, which experience greater temperature-sensitive drift and rotation errors. Applications for these products include inertial measurement units, integrated navigation systems, attitude/heading/reference systems, and stabilization of antenna, radar, and optical equipment. 

The DSP-1750, which we believe to be the world&#8217;s smallest high-performance FOG, is the first to use our E &#183; Core 

Table of Contents 

ThinFiber&#174; technology. This thin fiber, which is created at our Tinley Park, Illinois manufacturing facility, is only 170 microns in diameter, enabling longer lengths of fiber to be wound into smaller housings. Since the length of the fiber used in a FOG directly relates to gyro accuracy and performance, this technology enables us to produce smaller and more accurate gyros. The small size and weight of the DSP-1750 make it well suited for applications with size and weight restrictions, such as night vision and thermal imaging systems, aircraft-mounted gimbaled cameras for law enforcement and homeland security, and shipboard optical systems. 

Our DSP-1760 single-axis and multi-axis FOGs offer improved performance and ease of integration relative to the DSP-1750. Many customers using our DSP-1750 single-axis and dual-axis FOGs also had requirements for packaged DSP-1750s. To address this demand, we introduced the DSP-1760 product line, consisting of packaged one, two, or three axes of FOGs, each with two different interface connector options. 

The DSP-3000 and DSP-3100 are each slightly larger than a deck of playing cards and offer s &#32;a variety of interface options to support a range of applications. High-performance 2-axis and 3-axis configurations can be realized by integrating multiple DSP-3000 and DSP-3100 units. Currently, the DSP-3000 and DSP-3100 are used in an array of pointing and stabilization applications, including the U.S. Army&#8217;s Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station (CROWS) to provide the image and gun stabilization necessary to ensure that the weapon remains aimed at its target. We estimate that more than 20 companies have developed or are developing stabilized remote weapons stations that we believe will require similar FOG stabilization capabilities. The larger, militarized dual axis DSP-4000 is designed for use in high-shock and highly dynamic environments, such as gun turret stabilization. 

Our 1750 IMU is an advanced 6-degrees-of-freedom sensor designed to integrate easily into the most demanding stabilization, pointing, and navigation applications. It offers enhanced performance at a lower cost than competing systems. The 1750 IMU marries the E&#183;Core ThinFiber technology of our DSP-1750 FOGs with very low noise, solid state MEMS accelerometers to create a commercial-off-the-shelf IMU. In September 2014, we introduced our new 1775 IMU and 1725 IMU products to complement the 1750 IMU and provide customers with a range of choices for advanced 6-degrees-of-freedom sensors. The family of IMUs offers exceptional precision in a very small form factor, making them suitable for applications where space is limited, such as manned and unmanned commercial and defense platforms, optical equipment stabilization systems, pipeline inspection equipment, and autonomous vehicle control and navigation systems. 

In January 2016, we introduced the GEO-FOG 3D and GEO-FOG 3D Dual inertial navigation systems that offers roll, pitch and heading accuracies of 0.05 degrees for demanding applications in unmanned, autonomous and manned aerial platforms. The product combines our 1750 IMU technology with centimeter-level precise GNSS receivers, a 3-axis magnetometer and a barometric pressure sensor. 

Tactical Navigation 

Our TACNAV&#174; tactical navigation product line employs digital compass sensors and KVH FOGs to offer vehicle-based navigation and pointing systems with a range of capabilities, including GPS backup and enhancement, vehicle position, hull azimuth and navigation displays. Because our digital compass products measure the earth&#8217;s magnetic field rather than detect satellite signals from the GPS, they are not susceptible to GPS jamming devices. 

TACNAV systems vary in size and complexity to suit a wide range of vehicles. Our TACNAV Light is a low-cost, digital compass-based battlefield navigation system specifically designed for non-turreted vehicles, such as high mobility multi-wheeled vehicles (HMMWVs) and trucks. Our TACNAV TLS, a digital compass-based tactical navigation and targeting system, offers a FOG upgrade for enhanced accuracy designed for turreted vehicles, including reconnaissance vehicles, armored personnel carriers, and light armored vehicles. Our TACNAV II Fiber Optic Gyro Navigation system offers a compact design, continuous output of heading and pointing data, and a flexible architecture that allows it to function as either a stand-alone navigation module or as the central component of an expanded, multifunctional navigation system. In June 2014, we introduced our new TACNAV 3D product, which is FOG-based and provides full three dimensional navigation. The TACNAV 3D is fitted with an Iridium transceiver to transmit and receive vehicle position, waypoint, and target location to or from a command center or other vehicle. The system also allows messages to be received from battlefield management systems. 

Our navigation systems function as standalone tools and also aggregate, integrate, and communicate critical information from a variety of on-board systems. TACNAV can receive data from systems such as the vehicle&#8217;s odometer, military and commercial GPS devices, laser rangefinders, turret angle indicators and laser warning systems. TACNAV can also output this data to an on-board computer for retransmission through the vehicle&#8217;s communications systems to a digital battlefield management application. 

Table of Contents 

Our TACNAV digital compass products have been sold for use aboard U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and Navy vehicles as well as to many foreign countries, including Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Malaysia, and Switzerland. We believe that we are among the leading manufacturers of such systems. Our standard TACNAV products can be customized to our customers&#8217; specifications. At customer request, we offer training and other services on a time-and-materials basis. 

Value-Added Services 

Our value-added services for the guidance and stabilization market include product repairs, engineering services provided under development contracts, and extended warranty sales. 

Sales, Marketing and Support 

Our sales, marketing and support efforts target markets that are substantial and require dedicated dealers and distributors to reach customers. These channels vary from time to time, but currently include targeted efforts to reach the commercial and leisure maritime markets; the RV, high-end automotive and bus markets; and the commercial, industrial, and government markets. We believe our brands are well known and well respected by customers within their respective niches. These brands include: 

&#8226; 

TracVision - satellite television systems for vessels and vehicles 

&#8226; 

TracPhone - two-way satellite communications systems 

&#8226; 

mini-VSAT Broadband - mobile satellite communications network 

&#8226; 

IP-MobileCast - content delivery service 

&#8226; 

NEWSLink - maritime newspapers 

&#8226; 

Videotel - maritime training content and services 

&#8226; 

CommBox - network management hardware and software for maritime communications 

&#8226; 

TACNAV - tactical navigation systems for military vehicles 

&#8226; 

OneCare - services and support for the mini-VSAT Broadband solution 

We sell our mobile satellite communications products directly and through an international network of independent retailers, chain stores and distributors, as well as to manufacturers of vessels and vehicles. 

We sell entertainment media content directly through our KVH Media Group, headquartered in Leeds, England, and our training and e-Learning content directly though our Videotel group, which is located in London, England, and Hong Kong. 

Our European headquarters, which is located in Denmark, coordinates our sales, marketing, and support efforts for our mobile satellite communications products in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Asian and Australia/New Zealand sales are managed through our offices located in Singapore. All international offices are managed under the oversight of our North American sales and marketing office. See Note 13 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding our geographic segments. 

We sell our guidance and stabilization products directly to U.S. and foreign governments and government contractors, as well as through an international network of authorized independent sales representatives. This network also sells our FOG products to commercial and industrial customers. 

In 2013, purchases of TACNAV products and services by the U.S. Army Program Office - Saudi Arabian National Guard (SANG) represented 12% of our total sales. 

Backlog 

Backlog is not a meaningful indicator for predicting revenue in future periods. Commercial resellers for our mobile satellite communications products and legacy products do not carry extensive inventories and rely on us to ship products quickly. Generally due to the rapid delivery of our commercial products, our backlog for those products is not significant. 

Our backlog for all products and services was $19.8 million, $27.3 million, and $20.5 million on December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, $18.0 million of our backlog was scheduled for fulfillment in 2016 and $1.8 million was scheduled for fulfillment in 2017 through 2020. The decrease in backlog of $7.5 million from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 was primarily a result of shipments made in the fourth quarter of 2015 related to a $19.0 million TACNAV product and services contract, announced in October 2014, with an international military customer for our new FOG- 

Table of Contents 

based tactical navigation system. The increase in backlog of $6.8 million from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 was primarily the result of the same $19.0 million TACNAV product and services contract. The contract includes program management and engineering services expected to be delivered through 2017 and hardware shipments expected to be fulfilled in 2015 and 2016, as well as out-year support services to be provided as part of this order. 

Backlog consists of orders evidenced by written agreements and specified delivery dates for customers who are acceptable credit risks. We do not include satellite connectivity or media content service sales in our backlog even though many of our satellite connectivity and media content customers have signed annual or multi-year service contracts providing for a fixed monthly fee. Military orders included in backlog are generally subject to cancellation for the convenience of the customer. When orders are canceled, we generally recover actual costs incurred through the date of cancellation and the costs resulting from termination. As of December 31, 2015, our backlog included approximately $14.0 million in orders that are subject to cancellation for convenience by the customer. Individual orders for guidance and stabilization products are often large and may require procurement of specialized long-lead components and allocation of manufacturing resources. The complexity of planning and executing larger orders generally requires customers to order well in advance of the required delivery date, resulting in backlog. 

Intellectual Property 

Our ability to compete effectively depends to a significant extent on our ability to protect our proprietary information. We rely primarily on patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We own 22 U.S. and foreign patents and have 5 additional patent applications that are currently pending. We also register our trademarks in the United States and other key markets where we do business. Our patents will expire at various dates between March 2016 and April 2033. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants, key employees, and sales representatives and maintain controls over access to and distribution of our technology, software, and other proprietary information. The steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. 

We do not generally conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. 

From time to time, we have faced claims by third parties that our products or technologies infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, and we may face similar claims in the future. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against or settling the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products is found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Manufacturing 

Manufacturing operations for our mobile satellite communications and navigation products consist of light manufacture, final assembly and testing. Manufacturing operations for our FOG products are more complex. We produce specialized optical fiber, FOG components and sensing coils and combine them with components purchased from outside vendors for assembly into finished goods. We own optical fiber drawing towers with which we produce the specialized optical fiber that we use in all of our FOG products. Excluding the CommBox product, which we manufacture in Norway, we manufacture, warehouse and distribute our mobile satellite communications products at our facilities in Middletown, Rhode Island. We manufacture our navigation and FOG products in our facility located in Tinley Park, Illinois. 

We contract with third parties for fabrication and assembly of printed circuit boards, injection-molded plastic parts, machined metal components, connectors and housings. We believe there are a number of acceptable vendors for the components we purchase. We regularly evaluate both domestic and foreign suppliers for quality, dependability and cost effectiveness. In some instances we utilize sole-source suppliers to develop strategic relationships to enhance the quality of materials and save costs. Our manufacturing processes are controlled by an ISO 9001:2008-certified quality standards program. 

Table of Contents 

For subscribers of the Videotel maritime safety video and computer-based training modules, we provide computer hardware preloaded with the content (&#8220;VOD kiosk&#8221;), which is updated annually by DVD. We use two contract manufacturers in the United Kingdom to supply the VOD kiosks, which eliminates the dependence on one vendor. 

Competition 

We encounter significant competition in all of our markets, and we expect this competition to intensify in the future. Many of our primary competitors are well-established companies and some have substantially greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing, operational, and other resources than we do. 

In the marine market for satellite TV equipment, we compete primarily with Intellian, Cobham SATCOM, Orbit Communication Systems, RayMarine (Intellian made), KNS, and Sea King (King Controls). 

In the marine market for voice, fax, data, and Internet communications equipment, we compete primarily with Intellian, Cobham SATCOM, Orbit Communication Systems, Jotron AS, KNS Inc., Inmarsat, AddValue, and Iridium Satellite LLC. 

In the marine market for voice, fax, data, and Internet services, we compete primarily with Inmarsat, Globalstar LP, and Iridium Satellite LLC. We also face competition from providers of marine satellite data services and maritime VSAT solutions, including Inmarsat (which has successfully launched three Ka-band satellites that will deliver its new Global Xpress service and has announced that it anticipates offering commercial service early in the second quarter of 2016), Marlink, MTN/SeaMobile, Speedcast, and Harris CapRock. 

In the market for land mobile satellite TV equipment, we compete primarily with King Controls and Winegard Company. 

In the markets for media content, we compete primarily with Swank Motion Pictures and PressReader. 

In the markets for safety and e-Learning content, we compete primarily with Seagull AS. 

In the markets for mobile satellite communications technology, the principal competitive factors are product size, features, design, performance, reliability, and price. In the markets for airtime services, the principal competitive factors are geographic coverage, data speed, value-added services, and price. In the markets for media content, the principal competitive factors are license rights, distribution, and price. 

In the guidance and stabilization markets, we compete primarily with Honeywell International Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, Goodrich Aerospace, IAI, Fizoptica, SAGEM, and Systron Donner Inertial. We believe the principal competitive factors in these markets are performance, size, reliability, durability, and price. 

Research and Development 

Focused investments in research and development are critical to our future growth and competitive position in the marketplace. Our research and development efforts are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products and services that are central to our core business strategy. The industries in which we compete are subject to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product and service introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products and services that improve performance and meet customers&#8217; operational and cost requirements. Our current research and development efforts include projects to achieve additional cost reductions in our products and the development of new products and services for our existing marine and land mobile communications markets, and navigation, guidance, and stabilization application markets. For example: 

&#8226; 

In April 2015, we launched our new TracVision TV8 products designed to provide the tracking, reception and extended coverage area needed for yachts and merchant vessels calling in ports all around the world. 

&#8226; 

In November 2015, we updated our IP-MobileCast content delivery service with subtitle languages for movies and more accessible menus and program guides on vessels' set-top boxes. 

&#8226; 

In January 2016, we launched our GEO-FOG 3D and GEO-FOG 3D Dual inertial navigation systems, which combine KVH's FOG-based 1750 IMU's with GPS for demanding applications 

Our research and development activities consist of projects funded by us and projects funded with the assistance of customer-funded contract research. Our customer-funded research efforts are made up of contracts with defense and OEM 

Table of Contents 

customers, whose performance specifications are unique to their product applications. Defense and OEM research often results in new product offerings. We strive to be the first company to bring a new product to market, and we use our own funds to accelerate new product development efforts. 

Government Regulation 

Our manufacturing operations are subject to various laws governing the protection of the environment and our employees. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change may require us to improve our technologies, incur expenditures, or both, in order to comply with such laws and regulations. 

We are subject to compliance with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations. Some of our products have military or strategic applications and are on the Munitions List of the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations. These products require an individual validated license to be exported to certain jurisdictions. The length of time involved in the licensing process varies and can result in delays of the shipping of the products. Sales of our products to either the U.S. government or its prime contractors are subject to the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations. 

We are also subject to the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we offer and sell our satellite communication products and services, including those of the European Union, Brazil, Norway, Singapore, and Japan. These laws and regulations, as well as the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations, are subject to change and any such change may affect our ability to offer and sell existing and planned satellite communications products and services. 

Employees 

On December 31, 2015, we employed 567 full-time employees. We also employ part-time employees as well as temporary or contract personnel, when necessary, to provide short-term and/or specialized support for production and other functional projects. 

We believe our future success will depend upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel and upon our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have never experienced a work stoppage and consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Table of Contents 

