 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS. 

General 

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on March 24, 2011. We have not generated any revenues and the only operations to date are organizational matters, planning our website and developing our business plan. 

We have plans to change our business activities and or to combine with another business, and we are not aware of any events or circumstances that might cause its plans to change. 

We have not begun operations and will not begin operations until we completed our public offering. Our plan of operation is forward looking and there is no assurance of the future operations..

If we do not have sufficient capital to independently, we intend to rely on outside sources of financing to help develop our mandate for expansion. 

Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon our ability to produce commercially successful products. In order to succeed, we must develop or acquire organic farms appropriate for production and distribution. We intend to rely on our president&#146;s access to and relationships in order to facilitate that progress. 

Organic refining business 

The latest market research indicates a strong continuing upsurge in China&#146;s organic consumables industry. The industry as grown rapidly from a fractional segment of China&#146;s food industry, to a more prominent one. This area of food and product consumption is rising consistently. According to Biofach China, China is the second largest consumer market in the world, where the growth and consumption of Chinese organic products is expected to exceed the global average rate of organic consumption. 

In 2008, the total value of organic production reached a height in the range of 16 billion RMB ($ 2.4 billion US), with exported organic products exceeding $500 million US dollars, along with the domestic organic market reaching $1.1 billion US dollars. According to Biofach, the world&#146;s largest organic trade fair, the consumption of organic food tripled between 2007 and 2012. 

As recent food safety issues have gained exposure, the organic product industry has correspondingly experience data transference in consumer buying habits in recent years. Particularly, consumers in the white collared demographic, as well as foreigners settling in the region, have become increasingly motivated to invest more in better quality food. Accordingly, research from Mintel on consumer lifestyles in China reveals that 80% of urban Chinese consumers claim that organic food and drink products are worth paying more for. 

We intend to step into this advantageous segment of the Chinese industry. The opportunities opening before us are a significant indicator of how robust the growth potential is in this sector. We firmly believe that the greatest potential for a high level of success is when timing and opportunity meet. At this stage in the game in the organic food market in China, it&#146;s evident that the growth and revenue potential here can be exponential.

Lotus Bio-Technology will attempt to establish long-term relationships and strategic partnerships with various biological companies and medical distribution companies in China, including Hunan Cangshi, a successful proprietor, developer and producer of consumer related organic products, Phyto Nutraceutical Inc., which is developer, manufacturer, exporter and primary supplier of plant extracts and Changsha Huakang Biotechnology Development Co., Ltd, a company which specializes in extracting active ingredient of natural herbs and plants. Lotus intends to collaborate closely with Shanghai Ninth People&#146;s Hospital and Shanghai Putuo People&#146;s Hospital and as their direct supplier, which provides patients with premium quality of organic consumer products. 

Hunan Cang Shi Biotech Ltd. is a biotech company that is located in Hunan Province, China with fixed asset of 6 million RMB. The Company mainly focuses on biological extraction from animals and related products. The Company intends to work closely with Dao County Wan QIan Mo agricultural development Ltd. (local company) and develop Dao County farmland. Organics, although only a small portion of China&#146;s food market, are on the rise in China, with the consumption of organic food out of total consumption tripling between 2007 and 2012 according to Biofach, the world&#146;s largest organic trade fair. The purpose of this project is to develop the leading organic farmland in China and provide local customers the real organic food products with affordable prices and guarantees that all of them will be produced in an environmentally responsible way and not be grown with pesticides, synthetic fertilizers, antibiotics, growth hormones, or other dangerous chemicals. Rather than the local organic food that is certified by private firms, NGOs, and individual inspectors, the Company intends to work closely with The Chinese Organic Certification Center (COFCC), the agency officially in charge of certifying all organics and make sure that all of products from our farmland are properly labeled and certified with premium qualities. Besides the organic food, the Company also intends to grow Camellia Oleifera and traditional Chinese medicine (herbs) .Camellia Oleifera is notable as an important source of edible oil and its seeds can be pressed to yield tea oil, which is commonly used for medical and cosmetic purposes. Camellia seed oil also has anti-obesity properties and it is considered to have the highest antioxidant contents, higher than that of olive oil, or that of other high quality oils. The demand for Camellia oil and related products is enormous and the price of tea oil has increased from $5,000 USD per tonne to $10,000 USD per tonne in recent years. 

Labor Laws 

We are not aware of any transgression of labour laws in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate.

