 Item 1. Business. 

The LGL Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company" or "LGL") is a globally-positioned producer of industrial and commercial products and services that is currently focused on the design and manufacture of highly-engineered, high reliability frequency and spectrum control products. These electronic components ensure reliability and security in aerospace and defense communications, low noise and base accuracy for laboratory instruments, and synchronous data transfers throughout the wireless and Internet infrastructure. The Company was incorporated in 1928 under the laws of the State of Indiana, and in 2007, the Company was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as The LGL Group, Inc. LGL maintains its executive offices at 2525 Shader Road, Orlando, Florida, 32804. The Company's telephone number is (407) 298-2000. The Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT under the symbol "LGL." The Company's warrants to purchase common stock, expiring August 6, 2018, are available for trading on the over-the-counter market under the symbol "LGLPW."

The Company operates through its principal subsidiary, M-tron Industries, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "MtronPTI"), which has design and manufacturing facilities in Orlando, Florida, Yankton, South Dakota and Noida, India, as well as local sales and customer support offices in Sacramento, California and Hong Kong.

Overview of MtronPTI

Originally founded in 1965, MtronPTI designs, manufactures and markets highly-engineered, high reliability frequency and spectrum control products. These component-level devices are used extensively in infrastructure equipment for the telecommunications and network equipment industries, as well as in electronic systems for applications in defense, aerospace, earth-orbiting satellites, down-hole drilling, medical devices, instrumentation, industrial devices and global positioning systems.

As an engineering-centric company, MtronPTI provides close support to the customer throughout their products' entire life cycle, including product design, prototyping, production, and subsequent product upgrades. This collaborative approach has resulted in the development of long-standing business relationships with its blue-chip customer base.

MtronPTI's Strategy

MtronPTI's primary objective is to create long-term growth with a market-based approach of designing and bringing new products to its customers through both organic research and development, and through strategic partnerships, joint ventures, acquisitions or mergers. Through direct collaboration with original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), our customers, MtronPTI seeks to leverage its core strength as an engineering leader to expand client access, add new capabilities and continue to diversify its product offerings. MtronPTI's focus is on investments that will differentiate and broaden its RF/microwave portfolio and lead toward higher levels of integration. We believe that successful execution of this strategy will lead to a transformation of MtronPTI's product portfolio towards longer product life cycles, better margins and improved competitive position.

Products

MtronPTI's portfolio is divided into two product groupings, Frequency Control and Spectrum Control, and has expanded from primarily crystal-based components to include higher levels of integration, advanced materials science, cavity-based products, and various types of compensation methods employing integrated circuits and other methods. These products are differentiated by their precise level of accuracy, their stability over time and within harsh environments, and their very low phase noise.

MtronPTI's Frequency Control product group includes a broad portfolio of XTAL, clock oscillators, VCXO, TCXO OCXO and DOCXO devices which meet some of the tightest specifications, including IEEE 1588 standards. These devices may be based on quartz, quartz MEMS, or advanced materials science designed to achieve higher performance levels than quartz. MtronPTI's products offer high reliability over a wide temperature range and are well-suited for harsh environments, including shock and vibration-resistant oscillators with low-g sensitivity. These products are designed for applications within aerospace and defense, telecommunications infrastructure and instrumentation markets.

MtronPTI's Spectrum Control product group includes a wide array of RF, microwave and millimeter wave filters and diplexers covering a frequency range from 1 MHz to 90 GHz, and solid state power amplifiers covering a frequency range from 300 MHz to 26 GHz, with power output from 10 Watts to 10 kWatts. Filter devices include crystal, ceramic, LC, tubular, combline, cavity, interdigital and metal insert waveguide, as well as digital, analog and mechanical tunable filters, switched filter arrays and RF subsystems. Power amplifiers add active devices to MtronPTI's portfolio and include GaN, GaAS FET, LDMOS and chip and wire technologies in narrow or broadband, module or rack-mounted packages. These products are employed in applications within the aerospace, defense and commercial markets.

As always, new product development is a key focus for MtronPTI as it continues to push its roadmap to meet the needs of its served markets. Within Frequency Control, design efforts are focused on smaller packages, lower power, and use of new materials to provide compensation and harsh environment performance that surpasses customer requirements. Spectrum Control seeks to develop higher power handling, higher levels of integration and a range of integrated products within the RF subsystem.

Manufacturing and Operations

MtronPTI has design and manufacturing facilities located in Orlando, Florida, Yankton, South Dakota and Noida, India, providing nearly 120,000 square feet of manufacturing space on approximately 14 acres of land. All of its production facilities are ISO 9001:2008 certified, ITAR registered and RoHS compliant. In addition, its U.S. production facilities in Orlando and Yankton are AS9100 Rev C and MIL-STD-790 certified.

MtronPTI's headquarters are located in Orlando, Florida, with sales and customer support offices also located in Sacramento, California and Hong Kong.

Research and Development

Utilizing its understanding of market requirements, MtronPTI employs a disciplined approach to capital allocation when selecting new product development projects. A cross-functional team comprised of engineering, marketing, operations, sales and finance reviews the merits of specific projects, seeking to invest in products that will exceed a specific return on investment level and a payback expectation within one to two years. In addition, the team considers the inherent value of intellectual property that each project presents with consideration for technical roadmap objectives.

Research and development expense was approximately $1,964,000 and $2,166,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and will remain a significant part of MtronPTI's efforts to revitalize its IP position.

Customers

MtronPTI primarily works directly with OEMs to define the right solutions for their unique applications, including the design of custom parts with unique part numbers. Actual sales of production parts may be directly to the OEM or through either their designated contract manufacturers ("CMs"), or through franchised distributors of MtronPTI's products. As a result, MtronPTI has highly-skilled sales engineers who work directly with the designers and program managers at its OEMs, providing a high-level of engineering support at all points within the process. Over MtronPTI's 50-year history, it has developed a long list of blue-chip customers that have come to rely on its products because of their performance characteristics and their reliability.

In 2015, MtronPTI's largest customer, an electronics contract manufacturing company in the aerospace and defense markets, accounted for $2,627,000, or 12.7%, of the Company's total revenues, compared to $2,522,000, or 11.0%, in 2014.

Marketing and Sales

MtronPTI has a highly skilled team of sales engineers who work in tandem with a worldwide network of more than 30 independent external manufacturer representatives and franchised electronics distributors to market and sell its products. An important part of the sales process is gaining qualification of specific products from the OEM, confirming suitability for use in a specific system design, which is commonly referred to as a "design-win." Through direct contact with its clients and through its representative network, MtronPTI is able to understand the needs of the marketplace and then guide its product development process to allocate resources to meeting those requirements.

Seasonality

MtronPTI's business is not seasonal, although shipment schedules may be affected by the production schedules of its customers or their CMs based on regional practices or customs.

Domestic Revenues

MtronPTI's domestic revenues were $15,260,000 in 2015, or 73.7% of total consolidated revenues, compared to $13,556,000, or 58.9% of total consolidated revenues, in 2014.

International Revenues

MtronPTI's international revenues were $5,453,000 in 2015, or 26.3% of total consolidated revenues, compared to $9,457,000, or 41.1% of total consolidated revenues, in 2014. In each of 2015 and 2014, these revenues were derived mainly from customers in Asia, with significant sales in Malaysia and China. MtronPTI avoids significant currency exchange risk by transacting and settling substantially all international sales in United States dollars.

Order Backlog

MtronPTI's order backlog was $8,799,000 and $8,792,000 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The backlog of unfilled orders includes amounts based on signed contracts as well as agreed letters of intent, which MtronPTI has determined are firm orders and likely to proceed. Although backlog represents only firm orders that are considered likely to be fulfilled within the 12 months following receipt of the order, cancellations or scope adjustments may and do occur.

Order backlog is adjusted quarterly to reflect project cancellations, deferrals, revised project scope and cost. The Company expects to fill its entire 2015 order backlog in 2016, but cannot provide assurances as to what portion of the order backlog will be fulfilled in a given year.

Raw Materials

Most raw materials used in the production of MtronPTI products are available in adequate supply from a number of sources and the prices of these raw materials are relatively stable. However, some raw materials, including printed circuit boards, quartz and certain metals including steel, aluminum, silver, gold, tantalum and palladium, are subject to greater supply fluctuations and price volatility, as experienced in recent years. MtronPTI generally has been able to include some cost increases in its pricing, but in some cases its margins were adversely impacted.

Competition

Production of frequency and spectrum control devices is a highly competitive industry, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. There are numerous domestic and international manufacturers who are capable of providing custom-designed timing and filter products comparable in quality and performance to MtronPTI's products. Competitors include, but are not limited to, Vectron International (a division of Knowles Corporation), K&#38;L Microwave (a division of Dover Corporation), CTS Corporation, and Rakon Limited. MtronPTI's competitive strategy begins with its focus on manufacturing lower volumes of more precise, custom designed frequency control devices, rather than producing higher volumes of standardized products like some of its competitors. MtronPTI also seeks to outperform the competition by producing market-based design solutions for customers utilizing MtronPTI's technical skill, and its high-performance, high-reliability product portfolio, and by providing high level quality engineering support throughout the customer's design process and the entire life cycle of the product.

Intellectual Property

MtronPTI has no patents, trademarks or licenses that are considered to be significant to its business or operations. Rather, MtronPTI believes that its technological position depends primarily on the technical competence and creative ability of its engineering and technical staff in areas of product design and manufacturing processes, including their ability to customize to meet difficult specifications, as well as proprietary know-how and information.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, the Company employed 141 people (full-time equivalents): two within corporate headquarters and 139 within its subsidiary, MtronPTI, which includes 33 in Yankton, South Dakota, 95 in Orlando, Florida, three in Hong Kong and eight in Noida, India. None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor union and the Company considers its relationships with employees to be good.

As an engineering-centric company, nearly 20% of MtronPTI's workforce consists of degreed-engineers bringing their expertise to product design and process development.

Environmental

The Company's manufacturing operations, products, and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and other chemicals. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, both within the United States and internationally, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in the Company's operations that any future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance that would be associated with these regulations.

To date, capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the Company have not been materially affected by compliance with current federal, state, and local laws and regulations (domestic and foreign) relating to the protection of the environment. However, the Company cannot predict the effect of future laws and regulations.

