 Item 1. Business. Overview Lumber Liquidators is the largest specialty retailer of hardwood flooring in North America, offering a complete purchasing solution across an extensive assortment of exotic and domestic hardwood species, engineered hardwood, laminate, resilient vinyl, bamboo and cork. We operate as a single operating segment, with our call center, website and customer service network supporting retail store operations. 

We believe we have achieved a reputation for offering great value, superior service and a broad selection of high-quality hardwood flooring products. With a balance of price, selection, quality, availability and service, we believe our value proposition is the most complete within a highly-fragmented hardwood flooring market. The foundation for our value proposition is strengthened by our unique store model, the industry expertise of our people, our singular focus on hard-surface flooring and our expansion of our advertising reach and frequency. 

Lumber Liquidators is a Delaware corporation with headquarters in Toano, Virginia. We were founded in 1994 and our initial public offering was in November 2007. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#147;LL.&#148; We operate in a holding company structure with Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. serving as our parent company and certain direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Lumber Liquidators, Inc., Lumber Liquidators Services, LLC, Lumber Liquidators Production, LLC, and Lumber Liquidators Canada Inc., conducting our operations. 

Our Business Market According to the July 2015 Issue of Floor Covering Weekly, U.S. installed floor covering product sales in 2014 were $35.6 billion, excluding installation. Within this market, U.S. hardwood and laminate flooring sales accounted for 19.1% of the total. Flooring sales are driven by a number of factors including discretionary income and the housing market. Including installation, the overall flooring industry has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 5.1% from 2009 through 2014. Over the same period, hardwood and laminate flooring sales, including the cost of installation grew at a compound annual growth rate of 5.5%. We believe improvements in the quality and construction of certain products, ease of installation, and a broad range of retail price points, will drive continued hard surface flooring share gain versus soft surface flooring in the future. 

Competition We compete for customers in a highly fragmented marketplace, where we believe no one retailer has captured more than a 15% share of the market for hardwood flooring. Although the market includes the national home improvement warehouse chains, warehouse clubs and online retailers, we believe the majority of the industry consists of local one-store flooring retailers, small chains of stores that may specialize in one or two flooring categories and a limited number of regional chains. Catalina Research, Inc., a company providing market research on various flooring types, estimates there are approximately 9,000 specialty floor coverings stores in the U.S. 

Customers We target several distinct customer groups who each have varied needs with respect to their flooring purchase, including do-it-yourself (&#147;DIY&#148;) customers, do-it-for-me (&#147;DIFM&#148;) customers, and commercial customers. Each of the customer groups we serve are passionate about their flooring purchase and value our wide assortment of flooring products, availability, and the quality of those products. Each of these customer groups require a unique customer service approach based on the ability of our associates to share detailed product knowledge and preferred installation methods. We offer DIFM customers installation services, while our DIY and commercial customers receive additional support throughout their purchase, including dedicated call center resources. All customer groups are offered delivery services. 

&#160;

&#160;

Products and Services Product Selection We offer an extensive assortment of wood flooring under 19 proprietary brand names, led by our flagship, Bellawood. We have invested significant resources developing these national brand names, as well as the Lumber Liquidators name. Our hardwood flooring products are available in various widths and lengths and are generally differentiated in terms of quality and price based on the species, wood grade, warranty and durability of finish. Prefinished floors are the dominant choice for residential customers over unfinished wood planks that have a finish applied after installation. We also offer an assortment of flooring enhancements, installation and accessories, including moldings, underlays and tools. Our revenue by major product category is included in Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. 

Direct Sourcing Sourcing directly from mills and other vendors enables us to offer a broad assortment of high-quality, proprietary products to our customers at a consistently low cost. We seek to establish strong, long-term relationships with our vendor partners around the world. In doing so, we look for vendors that have demonstrated an ability to meet our demanding specifications and the capability to provide sustainable and growing supplies of high-quality and innovative products. 

Supply Chain Our supply chain is focused on delivering a complete assortment of products to our customers in an efficient manner. In the first quarter of 2014, we began operating a 500,000 square foot leased distribution center in Pomona, California as the primary distribution center for our western stores. In 2014, we completed construction of a million square foot distribution center on 110 acres of land we own in Henrico County, Virginia to consolidate the distribution facilities located in Hampton Roads, Virginia, increase the efficiency of our East Coast operations and provide a foundation for future store base expansion. We began the transition of our operations from those facilities to the new facility in 2014, and the facility was fully operational in 2015. 

During 2015, we leased third party consolidation services to break bulk shipments from mills into quantities and assortments that can be sent directly to our store locations. We terminated these services at the end of the second quarter of 2015 as we enhanced our utilization of our distribution centers. Additionally, a number of our vendors maintain certain inventory levels for shipment directly to our stores or our customers. Our product is generally transported boxed and palletized, and the weight of our product generally is correlated with our supply chain costs. 

Compliance and Quality Control The Company&#146;s compliance programs are designed to ensure the products we sell are safe, responsibly sourced, and meet all regulatory and statutory requirements, including without limitation requirements associated with the Lacey Act and the California Air Resources Board (&#147;CARB&#148;). We utilize a variety of due diligence processes and controls, including supplier audits, periodic on site visits, and product testing. The Company utilizes a risk-based approach to implement and operate the various aspects of its compliance program. Our compliance program considers, among other things, product risk, the level of vertical integration at our mills, legality concerns noted by both private and government parties, and the results of on-site audits performed by, or on behalf of, the Company. Our evaluation of risk is a key component in our allocation of resources to ensure the Company meets its standards for product compliance and safety. We believe our Lacey Act Compliance program is one of the most stringent programs in the industry. Compliance and Quality Control teams located in the United States and in China are supplemented with external resources that provide independent analyses which are incorporated into our review processes and monitor our sourcing efforts across all areas from which we source product. Compliance programs are continually under review, updated and enhanced as appropriate to stay current with statutory and regulatory requirements. 

Additionally, we began operating a 1,500 square foot lab within our new East Coast distribution facility during the first quarter of 2015. The lab features two temperature and humidity controlled conditioning rooms and two emission chambers correlated to a CARB-approved Third Party Certifier standard. We believe this equipment mirrors the capabilities of CARB and other state-of-the-art emission testing facilities. We believe 

&#160;

&#160;

no other flooring retailer has comparable facilities. This new lab will complement and augment the capabilities of the facilities we operate in Toano, Virginia and in Shanghai, China, as well as those utilized by our suppliers to help ensure compliance with CARB requirements. 

Installation Historically, approximately one in 10 of our customers opt to utilize the fully-insured and licensed professional installation services which we make available to measure and install flooring at competitive prices at each of our stores. As of December 31, 2015, we utilized a network of associates to perform certain customer-facing, consultative services and coordinated the installation of our flooring products by third-party professional installers in 186 of our stores. Service revenue for installation transactions we control is included in net sales, with the corresponding costs in cost of sales. We believe our greater interaction with the customer and greater control over the third party services provided will ultimately result in a better customer experience and higher utilization by the customer. Installation services are offered in our remaining stores through a national arrangement with a third-party. Under this national arrangement, we receive certain reimbursements based on volume, which offset other expenses. 

Store Model As of December 31, 2015, we operated 374 retail stores, with 366 located throughout the United States and eight in Ontario, Canada, after closing one of our Canadian stores at the end of its lease term during the fourth quarter. 

We generally seek locations with lower rent than retailers requiring high traffic or impulse purchases and are able to adapt a range of existing buildings to our format, from free-standing buildings to strip centers to small shopping centers. Generally, our stores are approximately 6,500 to 7,500 square feet, which includes a showroom format designed to emphasize our products and a small warehouse. Our real estate strategy considers total long-term share within a market over unit-based analysis. We enter into short leases, generally for a base term of five to seven years with renewal options, to maximize our real estate flexibility. 

We routinely evaluate our store site selection criteria and are currently targeting retail corridors within a market over the more industrial locations we historically sought. We consistently monitor performance of current stores as well as the market opportunity for new locations, adjusting as needed to optimize the profitability and growth potential of our network. 

Sales Approach We have an integrated multi-channel sales model that enables our stores, call center, website and catalogs to work together in a coordinated manner. We believe that due to the average size of the sale and the general infrequency of a hardwood flooring purchase, many of our customers conduct extensive research using multiple channels before making a purchase decision. Though our customers utilize a range of these channels in the decision-making process, the final sale is most often completed in the store, working with our flooring experts. Our customers typically plan well in advance for the inconvenience of removing old flooring and installing new flooring. In larger, more complex projects, greater lead time and preparation is often required. Our research indicates that the length of a hardwood flooring purchase can vary significantly from initial interest to final sale, but averages approximately 100 days. 

Our objective is to help the consumer through the entire purchase cycle from aspiration to installation, whether in our store or in their home. Our goal is to provide our customers with everything needed to complete their flooring project &#151; to remove the existing floor, install the new floor with complementary moldings and accessories, and finally, maintain the floor for its lifetime. 

Our sales strategy emphasizes customer service by providing superior, convenient, educational tools for our customers to learn about our products and the installation process. Flooring samples of most of the products we offer are available in our stores, or can be ordered through our call center and website. Once an order is placed, customers may choose to either have their purchases delivered or pick them up at a nearby store location. 

We are committed to responding to our potential and existing customers in a timely manner. Our call center is staffed by flooring experts cross-trained in sales, customer service and product support. In addition to 

&#160;

&#160;

receiving telephone calls, our call center associates chat online with visitors to our website, respond to emails from our customers and engage in telemarketing activities. Customers can contact our call center to place an order, to make an inquiry or to order a catalog. 

Knowledgeable Salespeople A large segment of residential homeowners are in need of a trusted expert, whether as a guide through a range of flooring alternatives and services or as a resource to both DIY and DIFM customers. We train and position our store management and associates to establish these individual customer relationships, which often last beyond the current purchase to subsequent purchases for additional rooms in the existing house or even to the remodeling of a new home. 

We place an emphasis on identifying, hiring and empowering employees who share a passion for our business philosophy. Many of our store managers have previous experience with the home improvement, retail flooring or flooring installation industries. We provide continuous training for our store associates, ranging from topic-specific modules offered through our online learning management system to participation in our Lumber Liquidators University (&#147;LLU&#148;) program. LLU is a training event for all of our regional and store managers that focuses on selling techniques and in-depth product training. 

Digital Our website contains a broad range of information on our products and services, including a comprehensive knowledge base of tools on wood flooring, product reviews, before and after photos from previous customers, product information and how-to installation videos. A consumer also has the ability to chat live with a flooring expert regarding questions about a flooring purchase or installation, either online or over the phone. 

We continue to develop several new and responsive mobile, tablet and website functions to assist consumers with their flooring choice. We also have an active presence on Facebook, Pinterest, YouTube and Twitter. 

Advertising and Financing Advertising : We utilize a mix of traditional and online media, ecommerce, direct mail, social media, and financing offers to emphasize product credibility, value, brand awareness, customer education and direct selling. We increase brand awareness in a variety of ways, including through sports, celebrity endorsements and product placement opportunities. Overall, we actively manage the mix of our media to efficiently drive sales while building brand awareness of our value proposition. 

Financing: We offer our residential customers a financing alternative through a proprietary credit card, the Lumber Liquidators credit card, underwritten by a third party financial institution, generally with no recourse to us. This program serves the dual function of providing financial flexibility to our customers and offering us promotional opportunities featuring deferred interest, which we often combine with product promotions. Our customers may also use their Lumber Liquidators credit card for installation services. Additionally, we offer our commercial customers a financing alternative. This program is also underwritten by a third party financial institution, generally at no recourse to us. The commercial credit program provides our professional customers a range of additional services that we believe add efficiency to their businesses. 

Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had 1,842 employees, 96% of whom were full-time and none of whom were represented by a union. Of these employees, 71% work in our stores, 17% work in corporate store support infrastructure or similar functions (including our call center employees) and 12% work either on our finishing line or in one of our distribution centers. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. 

Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our quarterly results of operations can fluctuate depending on the timing of our advertising expenses and the timing of, and income contributed by, our new stores. Our net sales fluctuate slightly as a result of seasonal factors, and we adjust merchandise inventories in anticipation of those factors, causing variations in 

&#160;

&#160;

our build of merchandise inventories. Generally, we experience higher than average net sales in the spring and fall, when more home remodeling activities are taking place, and lower than average net sales in the colder winter months and during the hottest summer months. 

Intellectual Property and Trademarks We have a number of marks registered in the United States, including Lumber Liquidators&#174;, Hardwood Floors For Less!&#174;, Bellawood&#174;, 1-800-HARDWOOD&#174;, 1-800-FLOORING&#174;, Quickclic&#174;, Virginia Mill Works Co. Hand Scraped and Distressed Floors&#174;, Morning Star Bamboo Flooring&#174;, Dream Home Laminate Floors&#174;, Builder&#146;s Pride&#174;, Sch&#246;n Engineered Floors&#174;, Casa de Colour Collection&#174; and other product line names. We have also registered certain marks in jurisdictions outside the United States, including the European Union, Canada, China, Australia and Japan. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value and these names are an important factor in the marketing of our brands. Accordingly, we take steps intended to protect our intellectual property including, where warranted, the filing of lawsuits and administrative actions to enforce our rights. 

Government Regulation We are subject to extensive and varied federal, provincial, state and local government regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to our relationships with our employees and customers, public health and safety, zoning, accommodations for persons with disabilities, and fire codes. We operate each of our stores, offices, finishing facility and distribution centers in accordance with standards and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws, codes and regulations. Certain of our operations and properties are also subject to federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, substances and wastes and relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, including off-site disposal locations. We do not currently incur significant costs complying with the laws and regulations related to hazardous materials. However, we could be subject to material costs, liabilities or claims relating to compliance in the future, especially in the event of changes in existing laws and regulations or in their interpretation, as well as the passage of new laws and regulations. 

Our suppliers are subject to the laws and regulations of their home countries, as well as those relative to the import of their products into the United States, including, in particular, laws regulating labor, forestry and the environment. Our suppliers are subject to periodic compliance audits, onsite visits and other reviews, as appropriate, in efforts to ensure that they are in compliance with all laws and regulations. We also support social and environmental responsibility among our supplier community and our suppliers agree to comply with our expectations concerning environmental, labor and health and safety matters. Those expectations include representations and warranties that our suppliers comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which they operate. 

Products that we import into the United States and Canada are subject to laws and regulations imposed in conjunction with such importation, including those issued and/or enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Canadian Border Services Agency. In addition, certain of our products are subject to laws and regulations relating to the importation, acquisition or sale of illegally harvested plants and plant products and the emissions of hazardous materials. We work closely with our suppliers to address the applicable laws and regulations in these areas. 

Available Information We maintain a website at www.lumberliquidators.com. The information on or available through our website is not, and should not be considered, a part of this report. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov , which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. 

&#160;

&#160;

