 Item 1. Business Overview 

LeMaitre Vascular is a global provider of medical devices for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. We develop, manufacture, and market vascular devices to address the needs of vascular surgeons. Our diversified portfolio of peripheral vascular devices consists of brand name products that are used in arteries and veins outside of the heart and are well known to vascular surgeons, and includes the Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome, the XenoSure biologic patch, the Pruitt F3 Carotid Shunt and VascuTape Radiopaque Tape. Our principal product offerings are sold throughout the world, primarily in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, Asia and the Pacific Rim. We estimate that the annual worldwide market which our core product lines address is approximately $750 million. 

&#160; 

We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force. As of December 31, 2015 our sales force was comprised of 86 sales representatives in North America, Europe, Japan, China and Australia. We also sell our products in other geographies through distributors. Our worldwide headquarters is located in Burlington, Massachusetts. Our international operations are headquartered in Sulzbach, Germany. We also have sales offices located in Tokyo, Japan; Mississauga, Canada; Madrid, Spain; Milan, Italy; Shanghai, China; and North Melbourne, Australia. In 2015, approximately 92% of our net sales were generated in territories in which we employ direct sales representatives. 

The Peripheral Vascular Device Market 

Based on industry statistics, we estimate that peripheral vascular disease affects more than 20 million people worldwide and that the annual worldwide market for all peripheral vascular devices is approximately $4 billion. The disease encompasses a number of conditions in which the arteries or veins that carry blood to or from the legs, arms, or organs other than the heart become narrowed, obstructed, weakened, or otherwise compromised. In many cases peripheral vascular disease goes undetected, sometimes leading to life-threatening events including stroke, ruptured aneurysm, pulmonary embolism or death. We believe that the peripheral vascular disease market will grow due to the increase in the incidence and diagnosis rates of peripheral vascular disease, a shift by doctors to prescribing higher-priced endovascular devices, and the adoption of western healthcare standards by the developing world. We believe that our strong brands, established sales force, evolving suite of peripheral vascular device offerings, and broad network of vascular surgeon customers position us to capture an increasing share of this large and growing market. 

Clinical studies have identified several factors that increase the risk of peripheral vascular disease, including smoking, diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, lack of exercise, coronary artery disease, high cholesterol, and being over the age of 65. Demographic trends suggest an increase in the prevalence of peripheral vascular disease over time, driven primarily by rising levels of obesity and diabetes and an aging population. 

Vascular surgeons treat peripheral vascular disease and also perform vascular procedures associated with other diseases, such as end-stage renal disease. We estimate that there are more than 2,500 board-certified vascular surgeons and several thousand general surgeons who perform vascular procedures in the United States, and that there are more than 3,000 vascular surgeons in Europe, Asia and the Pacific Rim. In contrast to other medical specialists, such as interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists, vascular surgeons perform both conventional open vascular surgeries and endovascular procedures. Conventional open vascular surgery involves opening the body, cutting vessels, and suturing. Endovascular procedures typically are minimally invasive, catheter-based procedures involving repairing vessels from within using real-time imaging technologies. We estimate that in 2015, 80% to 90% of our net sales were from devices used in open vascular procedures. 

Our Business Strategies 

We have grown our business by using a multi-pronged strategy: focusing on the vascular surgeon call point, competing for sales in low rivalry niche markets, and expanding our growth platform through our worldwide direct sales force as well as acquiring and developing complementary vascular devices. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Focused call point. We have historically directed our product offering and selling efforts towards the vascular surgeon, and estimate that in 2015 approximately 80% of our sales were to this type of customer. In contrast to other medical specialists, such as interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists, vascular surgeons are uniquely positioned to be able to perform both conventional open vascular surgeries as well as minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We believe that this presents our core customer with an opportunity to gain procedural market share against competing specialists, while offering us the ability to sell devices in both the open and endovascular markets to the same end user. 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Low rivalry niche segments. We seek to build and maintain leading positions in niche product segments. We believe that the relative lack of competitive focus on these segments by our larger competitors who may have greater resources than we do, as well as the differentiated features and consistent quality of our products, allow for us to establish both higher selling prices and market share gains in these markets. In recent years, however, we have sought to sell complementary products such as the Omniflow biosynthetic graft in larger, more competitive market segments, particularly when we believe that our product offering in that segment is highly differentiated. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Direct sales force expansion. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force in North America, Europe, Asia and the Pacific Rim. Since 1998, we have built our sales force from zero to 86 direct sales representatives. We intend to continue to expand our sales force in 2016 and over time. We believe that direct-to-hospital sales build closer customer relationships, allow for higher selling prices and gross margins, and are not subject to the risk of customer loss related to distributor turnover. 

In countries where we do not have a direct sales force, we also sell our products through distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2015, however, approximately 92% of our net sales were generated through our direct-to-hospital sales force, and no single hospital customer accounted for more than 2% of our net sales. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Addition of complementary products through acquisitions and research and development. We intend to further expand and diversify our product offerings and add new technology platforms. We believe our significant experience in acquiring and integrating product lines and businesses is one of our competitive advantages. We evaluate the acquisition of additional product lines and businesses that may be complementary to our product offerings, refine our current product lines, develop new applications for our existing technologies, and obtain regulatory approvals for our devices in new segments and geographies in order to further access the broader peripheral vascular device market. 

Acquisition History 

We were founded in 1983 by George D. LeMaitre, M.D., a vascular surgeon who designed and developed the predecessor to our 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotome. Through a combination of strategic acquisitions and research and development efforts, we have expanded to 14 product lines. 

We have completed 17 acquisitions of complementary products since 1998: 

&#160;

Year 

&#160; Acquisition 

&#160; Key Product(s) 

1998 &#160; Whittaker Screen Printing &#160; Radiopaque tape manufacturing operations 1999 &#160; Vermed &#160; Balloon catheters 2001 &#160; Ideas for Medicine &#160; Carotid shunts, balloon catheters, and laparoscopic cholecystectomy devices 2003 &#160; Credent &#160; Polycarbonate grafts 2004 &#160; VCS Clip &#160; Vessel closure system 2005 &#160; Endomed &#160; Stent grafts 2007 &#160; Vascular Innovations &#160; Contrast injector 2007 &#160; Vascular Architects &#160; Remote endarterectomy devices 2007 &#160; UnBalloon Technology &#160; Stent graft modeling catheters 2007 &#160; Biomateriali &#160; Polyester grafts and patches 2010 &#160; LifeSpan &#160; ePTFE grafts 2012 &#160; XenoSure &#160; Biologic patches 2013 &#160; Clinical Instruments &#160; Carotid Shunts and Embolectomy Catheters 2013 &#160; TRIVEX &#160; Powered phlebectomy system 2014 &#160; Xenotis Pty Ltd &#160; Biosynthetic grafts 2014 &#160; Angioscope &#160; Fiberoptic catheters 2015 &#160; Tru-Incise (for sale outside of the US) &#160; Valvulotomes &#160; 

With the exception of the remote endarterectomy devices, powered phlebectomy systems, biosynthetic vascular grafts, and the Tru-Incise valvulotome, we have relocated the manufacturing operations associated with these acquisitions to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters and we continue to look at ways to make our operations more efficient. 

&#160; 

Our Products 

We have a portfolio of 14 product lines, most of which are designed for use in open vascular surgery, and which address various anatomical areas including the carotid, lower extremities, upper extremities (for vascular access), aorta and other areas. In 2015, the carotid and lower extremities product lines comprised more than 10% of our revenues. In 2015, the lower extremities product lines were 53% of revenues, while the carotid product lines were 29%. In 2014, the lower extremities product lines were 51% of revenues while the carotid product lines were 28% of our revenues. In 2013 lower extremities product lines were 51% of revenues while the carotid product lines were 27%. The average selling price of valvulotomes, which are included in our lower extremities product lines, increased significantly in 2015 with the introduction of our 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotome. No single product line accounted for more than 25% of our revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013. 

Angioscopes 

The LeMaitre Disposable Angioscope is a fiberoptic catheter used for viewing the lumen of a blood vessel. It also provides direct visualization of valves during in-situ bypass procedures. 

Balloon Catheters for Embolectomy, Occlusion and Perfusion 

Our LeMaitre line of embolectomy catheters are used to remove blood clots from arteries or veins. We manufacture single-lumen latex and latex-free embolectomy catheters as well as dual-lumen latex embolectomy catheters. The dual-lumen embolectomy catheter allows clot removal and simultaneous irrigation or guide-wire trackability. Occlusion catheters temporarily occlude blood flow to allow the vascular surgeon time and space to complete a given procedure. Perfusion catheters temporarily perfuse blood and other fluids into the vasculature. Our Pruitt line of occlusion and perfusion catheters reduces vessel trauma by using internal balloon fixation rather than traditional external clamp fixation. 

Carotid Shunts 

Our Pruitt F3, Inahara-Pruitt, Flexcel and polyurethane carotid shunts are used to temporarily shunt blood to the brain while the surgeon removes plaque from the carotid artery in a carotid endarterectomy surgery. Our Pruitt F3, Pruitt-Inahara, and polyurethane shunts feature internal balloon fixation that eliminates the need for clamps, thereby reducing vessel trauma. Our Flexcel shunt is a non-balloon shunt offered for surgeons who prefer to secure their shunt with externally placed clamps. 

Powered Phlebectomy Devices 

Our TRIVEX powered phlebectomy system is comprised of capital equipment and disposables that enable less invasive removal of varicose veins. In this procedure, an illuminator is inserted through a small incision in the leg, enabling visualization of varicose veins. A second instrument removes the veins. Compared to conventional hook phlebectomy, this surgical procedure is faster and results in more complete vein removal through fewer incisions. 

Radiopaque Tape 

Our VascuTape Radiopaque Tape is a flexible, medical-grade tape with centimeter or millimeter markings printed with our proprietary radiopaque ink that is visible both to the eye and to an x-ray machine or fluoroscope. VascuTape Radiopaque Tape is applied externally to the skin and provides interventionalists with a simple way to cross-reference between the inside and the outside of a patient&#146;s body, allowing them to locate tributaries or lesions beneath the skin. 

&#160; 

Remote Endarterectomy Devices 

Our EndoRE line of remote endarterectomy devices are used to remove plaque from arteries in the leg in a minimally invasive procedure requiring a single incision in the groin. Our EndoRE devices are used to separate the plaque from the vessel, cut the far end of the plaque to free it for removal, and then withdraw it from the vessel. 

Valvulotomes 

Our 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotomes, Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotomes, Tru-Incise valvulotomes, and LeMills Valvulotomes cut valves in the saphenous vein, a vein that runs from the foot to the groin, so the vein can function as an artery to carry blood past diseased arteries to the lower leg or the foot. We believe our valvulotomes reduce costs for hospitals by enabling less invasive bypass surgery to be performed with several small incisions rather than one continuous ankle-to-groin incision, thereby reducing the length of hospital stays and the likelihood of wound complications. 

Vascular Grafts 

Our AlboGraft woven and knitted vascular grafts are collagen-impregnated polyester grafts used to bypass or replace diseased arteries. They are available in both straight tube and bifurcated versions. 

Our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft is an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft used to bypass or replace diseased arteries and to create dialysis access sites. They are available in both regular and thin wall options and with an optional full or partial external spiral support. Our stepped and tapered LifeSpan models are designed to reduce the risk of steal syndrome and high cardiac output, complications that may arise in dialysis access grafts. 

Our Omniflow II Biosynthetic Vascular Graft is a composite of cross-linked ovine collagen with a polyester mesh endoskeleton. It is used to bypass or replace diseased leg arteries, and to create dialysis access sites. 

Vascular Patches 

Our XenoSure Biologic Vascular Patch is made from bovine pericardium. In 2008, we obtained exclusive rights to distribute this product under our &#147;XenoSure&#148; brand in the United States, and in 2012, we exercised our option to acquire this product for worldwide distribution. 

Our AlboSure Vascular Patch is a polyester patch. Vascular surgeons use patches in conjunction with carotid endarterectomy, remote endarterectomy, and other vascular reconstructions. 

Vessel Closure Systems 

Our AnastoClip AC and AnastoClip GC vessel closure systems allow surgeons to attach vessels to one another by deploying titanium clips instead of sutures. These vessel closure systems create an interrupted anastomosis which expands and contracts as the vessel pulses, which we believe improves the durability of the anastomosis. 

Other Products 

In some hospitals, vascular surgery procedures are performed by general surgeons. We also sell general surgery devices, primarily laparoscopic cholecystectomy devices. Our leading general surgery product is the Reddick Cholangiogram Catheter, which is used to inject dye into the cystic duct during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In this procedure, the gall bladder is dissected and removed through small punctures in the abdomen. We also offer a laparoscopic accessory used in laparoscopic gall bladder removal. 

&#160; 

Sales and Marketing 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 86 field sales representatives. We believe that the expansion of our direct sales force since 1998 has been a key factor in our success, and it remains one of our primary long-term strategies. 

Outside our direct markets, we generally sell our products through country-specific distributors. We typically sign exclusive distribution agreements with distributors for terms of up to three years, frequently specifying minimum annual sales volumes and pricing. These agreements are renewable by mutual agreement between us and the distributor. From time to time, when we determine that it would be financially advantageous for us to sell directly in a country, we terminate our distributor(s) in that country. In October 2013, we agreed to terminate agreements with our distributors in Australia and Norway, and we began selling direct-to-hospital in those territories in January 2014. In August 2015, we agreed to terminate our agreement with a distributor in Finland in order to begin selling direct-to-hospital in Finland as of January 1, 2016. In December 2015, we signed a master distribution agreement with Meheco Yonstron Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., a Chinese distribution and logistics company, and plan to begin selling our Chinese market products to Meheco in 2016. Meheco will then sell to a layer of sub-distributors who will then sell our products directly to China hospitals. 

In addition, we engage in direct marketing efforts, including direct mail and exhibitions at medical congresses, which we believe are important to our brand development and continued success. We believe that direct marketing allows us to market to vascular surgeons beyond the reach of our direct sales force. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development has historically focused on developing enhancements and extensions to our existing product lines. Our current product development efforts are primarily focused on the open vascular space and are largely improvements to our existing devices. In 2015, our efforts were focused on launching the elongated AnastoClip AC and the 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotome, as well as developing a shunt flow monitor. 

Our products are subject to our design control procedures throughout the various stages of product development. These procedures may include bench testing, animal testing, human procedures conducted by independent physicians, and post-market surveillance of product performance, as appropriate. We may use feedback received from independent physicians to demonstrate product functionality before commencing full-scale marketing of any product. 

For 2015, 2014 and 2013, our research and development expenditures were $5.5 million, $4.7 million, and $5.2 million, respectively, representing 7%, 7% and 8% of net sales, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, our research and development staff consisted of 14 full-time engineers and technicians. 

Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing facilities are located in Burlington, Massachusetts, where most of our product lines are produced, and in North Melbourne, Australia, where our Omniflow II product line is produced. 

Following the acquisition of new product lines, we typically integrate manufacturing of the newly acquired lines into our Burlington operations. In 2013, we completed the build-out of our third clean room in Burlington for the production of the XenoSure biologic vascular patch, and in 2014 fully transitioned XenoSure production to our Burlington facility. In 2014, we transferred the manufacturing of the Clinical Instruments devices, which we acquired in 2013, to our Burlington facility. Our TRIVEX, EndoRE, and Tru-Incise valvulotome products are currently manufactured by third parties; however, we expect to transition manufacturing of the Tru-Incise valvulotome to our Burlington facility during 2016. 

&#160; 

We manufacture certain proprietary components, assemble most of our devices ourselves, and inspect, test, and package all of our finished products. By designing and manufacturing many of our products from raw materials, and assembling and testing as many of our subassemblies and products as practical, we believe we can maintain better quality control, ensure compliance with applicable regulatory standards and internal specifications, limit outside access to our proprietary technology, ensure adequate product supply, and make design modifications in a timely manner. We have custom-designed proprietary manufacturing and processing equipment and have developed proprietary enhancements for existing production machinery. Our products are built to stock. 

Our management information systems provide us with the ability to evaluate our performance, collect business intelligence, and make better strategic decisions. These systems include order entry, invoicing, on-line inventory management, lot traceability, purchasing, shop floor control, and shipping and distribution analysis, as well as various accounting-oriented functions. During day-to-day operations, these systems enable us to track our products from the inception of an order through the manufacturing process and then ultimately through delivery of the product to the customer. 

We purchase components from, and have certain product lines manufactured by, third parties. Most of our components are readily available from several supply sources, but we do rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for several of our key product components and our third-party-manufactured products. We do not have contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers and manufacturers, and we order our supplies and product on an as-needed basis. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption in the adequate supply from existing sources of product and components, but there is no guarantee that we will not experience such disruptions in the future. 

Our Burlington and North Melbourne manufacturing facilities have been certified to ISO 13485:2003 quality management system standards, which enables us to satisfy certain regulatory requirements of the European Union, Canada, and other foreign jurisdictions. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by various regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies (described below) to ensure compliance with domestic and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. See &#147;Government Regulation&#148; For further information. In February 2013 we underwent an audit by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and in November 2014, and July and November 2015, we underwent audits by our European Notified Body. The results of these inspections were satisfactory. 

Competition 

The segments in which our product lines compete are characterized by change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. No one company competes against all of our product lines; rather, we compete with a range of companies. Notable larger competitors include Applied Medical Resources Corporation, Baxter International, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., Covidien Medical Supplies (now a part of Medtronics), C.R. Bard, Inc., Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, Getinge AB, Terumo Medical Corporation, and W. L. Gore &#38; Associates. 

The success of our products relies on effective service support as well as superior product technology, quality, product availability, reliability, ease of use, cost-effectiveness, physician familiarity, and brand recognition. While we also compete on the basis of price, our products that are more technologically advanced than those of our competitors are sometimes sold at higher prices than those of our competitors. We believe that our continued success will depend on our ability to broaden and optimize our direct sales channel, acquire or develop additional complementary vascular device products, obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals, maintain sufficient inventory, obtain patent or other product protections and attract and retain skilled personnel. 

We also compete on the basis of procedure type. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease has experienced a shift from open vascular surgery towards minimally invasive endovascular procedures, and many 

&#160; 

of our products are used primarily or exclusively in open vascular surgery procedures. Our ability to compete effectively with our competitors relies on keeping pace with existing or new product and technology offerings in the vascular device market, and the minimally invasive endovascular procedure segment in particular. 

Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices, especially commodity products such as dacron and ePTFE grafts. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of which could materially adversely affect us. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that our success is dependent, to a certain extent, on the development and maintenance of proprietary aspects of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. 

We actively maintain and pursue patents in the United States, Europe and other strategic locations relating to various aspects of our products and/or manufacturing processes. The majority of our issued U.S. patents are set to expire at various times from 2016 to 2032. 

Generally, for products that we believe are appropriate for patent protection, we will attempt to obtain patents in the United States and key markets of the European Union. However, depending on circumstances, we may not apply for patents in all or any of those jurisdictions, or we may pursue patent protection elsewhere. 

Certain aspects of our products are covered by patents held by third parties. We manufacture, market, and sell these products pursuant to license agreements with these third parties. These arrangements require us to pay royalties, typically determined as a percentage of our net sales for the underlying product. If we fail to make these payments or otherwise fail to observe the terms of these agreements, we may lose our ability to sell these products. For example, we manufacture, market, and sell our LifeSpan Vascular Grafts, Periscope Dissectors and TRIVEX products pursuant to licenses with third-parties. 

We believe that our strong brands have been an important factor in our success. We rely on common law and registered trademarks to protect our product brands. Some of our registered trademarks are LeMaitre, XenoSure, Pruitt, VascuTape, Glow &#145;N Tell, and Reddick, each of which is registered in the United States and the European Union, and in certain cases in other foreign countries. 

We rely on trade secret protection for certain unpatented aspects of other proprietary technology. Some of our products are not protected by patents. In the past, other companies have independently developed or otherwise acquired comparable or substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, and there can be no assurance that others will not do so in the future or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We have a policy of requiring employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. 

The laws of foreign countries generally do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and we may experience more difficulty enforcing our proprietary rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. 

&#160; 

See &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#148; for a description of certain risks associated with our intellectual property. 

Government Regulation 

The products we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by the FDA, and, in some instances, other federal and state authorities and foreign governments. 

United States Regulation 

Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FDCA). FDA regulations govern, among other things, product development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, and import and export. 

Premarket Pathways 

Most medical devices must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket application approval (PMA approval) from the FDA prior to commercial distribution. Devices deemed to pose relatively less risk are placed in either class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting permission for commercial distribution; this is known as 510(k) clearance. Some low-risk devices are exempted from this requirement. Class II devices may be subject to special controls, such as performance standards and FDA guidelines that are not applied to class I devices. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k)-cleared device or to a pre-amendment class III device ( i.e. , one in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976) for which PMA applications have not been called, are placed in class III, which generally requires PMA approval. In all cases, a user fee is required for 510(k) submissions and PMA applications, which in the case of PMA applications can be very costly. 

510(k) Clearance. To obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent in intended use and performance to a &#147;predicate device&#148; ( i.e. , a previously 510(k)-cleared class I or class II device or a pre-amendment class III device for which the FDA has not yet called for PMA applications). The FDA&#146;s 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can take longer. In reviewing a premarket notification, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data. All of our devices currently sold in the United States are marketed pursuant to the 510(k) clearance. 

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change as specified by FDA guidelines, requires a new 510(k) clearance. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer&#146;s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. Also, the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. 

PMA Approval. The PMA approval pathway requires proof of the safety and effectiveness of the proposed device to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, making this pathway much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain. A PMA application must provide extensive preclinical and clinical trial data, as well as detailed information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing, and labeling. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer&#146;s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR) which imposes elaborate testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures on the manufacturing process. 

&#160; 

If the FDA approves a PMA, the approved indications or claims may be more limited than those originally sought. The PMA can include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes to be necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale, and distribution. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required if the device or its labeling or manufacturing process are modified. Supplements to a PMA often require the submission of the same type of information required for an original PMA, except that the supplement is generally limited to that information needed to support the proposed change from the product covered by the original PMA. 

Clinical Trials. A clinical trial is typically required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required to support 510(k) clearance. In some cases, one or more smaller feasibility Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) studies may precede a pivotal IDE clinical trial intended to comprehensively demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the investigational device. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with the FDA&#146;s extensive requirements. If an investigational device could pose a significant risk to patients (as defined in the regulations), the FDA, prior to initiation of clinical use, must approve an IDE application showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. A non-significant risk device does not require submission to the FDA of an IDE application. Both significant risk and non-significant risk investigational devices require approval from institutional review boards (IRBs) at the study centers where the device will be used. The FDA and the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

During a study, the sponsor must comply with the FDA&#146;s IDE requirements for investigator selection, trial monitoring, reporting, record keeping, and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices. The investigators must obtain patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices, and comply with all reporting and record-keeping requirements. Required records and reports are subject to inspection by the FDA. Prior to granting PMA approval, the FDA typically inspects the records relating to the conduct of the study and the clinical data supporting the PMA application for compliance with IDE requirements. 

Although the QSR does not fully apply to investigational devices, the requirement for controls on design and development does apply. The sponsor also must manufacture the investigational device in conformity with the quality controls described in the IDE application and any conditions of IDE approval that FDA may impose with respect to manufacturing. 

Historically, our products have been introduced into the market using the 510(k) clearance procedure, and we have not used the more burdensome PMA process for any of the products that we currently market or sell in the United States. However, if we were to seek approval for our Omniflow II biosynthetic vascular graft, we would be required to follow the PMA process. 

Postmarket Regulation 

After a device is placed on the market, regardless of the classification or premarket pathway, significant regulatory requirements apply. These include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; manufacturing establishment registration and device listing with the FDA; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the QSR, which requires finished device manufacturers, including third-party or contract manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures in all aspects of manufacturing; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved, or off-label uses and other requirements related to promotional activities; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA any field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health. 

We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. Our most recent FDA inspection was in February 2013 and was satisfactory. Non-compliance with applicable FDA requirements can result in, among other things, public warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the FDA to grant marketing approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals, a recommendation by the FDA to disallow us to enter into government contracts, and criminal prosecutions. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by us. In the event that one of our suppliers fails to maintain compliance with our quality requirements, we may have to qualify a new supplier and could experience manufacturing delays as a result. 

Non-U.S. sales of medical devices manufactured in the United States that are not approved or cleared by the FDA for use in the United States, or are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Before exporting such products to a foreign country, we must first comply with the FDA&#146;s regulatory procedures for exporting unapproved devices. 

Other U.S. Regulations 

We, and our products, are also subject to a variety of state and local laws in those jurisdictions where our products are or will be marketed, and federal, state, and local laws relating to matters such as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We are subject to various federal and state laws governing our relationships with the physicians and others who purchase or make referrals for our products. For instance, federal law prohibits payments of any form that are intended to induce a referral for any item payable under Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federal healthcare program. Many states have similar laws. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our ability to do business. 

We are subject to federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous and potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our operations. Although we believe that we have complied with these laws and regulations in all material respects and to date have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations in the future. 

Non-U.S. Regulation 

Sales of medical devices are subject to regulatory requirements in many countries. The regulatory review process may vary greatly from country to country. For example, the European Union has adopted numerous directives and standards relating to medical devices regulating their design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, and adverse event reporting, including the Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EEC) (the Directive), which is applicable to our products. Devices that comply with the requirements of the Directive are entitled to bear a CE mark, indicating that the device conforms with the essential requirements of the applicable directive and can be commercially distributed in countries that are members of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. Each member state of the European Union has implemented the directives into its respective national law and has each established a &#147;Competent Authority&#148; to apply the directive in its territory. 

&#160; 

The Directive defines a classification system placing devices into Class I, IIa, IIb, or III, depending on the risks and characteristics of the medical device. The Directive also defines the essential requirements that devices must meet before being placed on the market, establishes assessment procedures for approving a device for marketing, and creates mechanisms for national authorities to manage implementation or to intervene when public health requires. Essential requirements include manufacturing, design, performance, labeling, and safety requirements, and may include providing certain clinical data. These requirements vary based on the type of the device and other related factors. 

A manufacturer of low-risk devices typically may demonstrate conformity to the essential requirements based on a self-declaration. The European Standardization Committees have adopted numerous harmonized standards for specific types of medical devices. Compliance with relevant standards establishes a presumption of conformity with the essential requirements. Manufacturers of higher-risk devices generally must use a &#147;Notified Body&#148;&#151;an appointed independent third party to assess conformity. This third-party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer&#146;s quality system and specific testing of the manufacturer&#146;s devices. An assessment by a Notified Body in one country within the European Union is generally required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union. Most of our devices are considered higher-risk devices that require Notified Body assessment. 

The European medical device laws also address the advertising and promotion of medical devices, clinical investigations, and requirements for handling adverse events. Post-market surveillance of medical devices in the European Union is generally conducted on a country-by-country basis; however, the Directive sets forth certain specific requirements for reporting adverse events. The Medical Device Vigilance system is the mechanism by which adverse event reporting is managed and monitored in the European Union. 

In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA or foreign equivalent could require us to implement a recall of, any of our products and, if someone is harmed by a malfunction or a product defect, we may experience product liability claims for such defects. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital and may harm our reputation and financial results. Future recalls or claims could also result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. 

In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors or third party agents to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors and agents in this manner where appropriate. 

In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, which was reformed effective April 1, 2005. The revisions to Japan&#146;s regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product registration. 

Canada regulates the import and sale of medical devices through Health Canada (HC). HC classifies medical devices into four classifications, with Class I being the lowest risk and Class IV being the highest. Class I and II devices are often cleared for sale after they are CE marked or listed on the company&#146;s ISO certification and filed via fax-back applications, which are typically processed relatively quickly. Higher classification risk devices (Class III and IV) require filing of dossiers that resemble US 510(k) applications. These applications can range in cost and typically take longer for approval. 

Australia regulates the import and sale of medical devices through the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). The TGA has built its regulatory framework around similar requirements to those issued in Europe. As such, many medical devices (those with a lower risk profile) may gain relatively fast marketing clearance using 

&#160; 

their existing EU-issued CE marking. Higher risk devices (those in EU/Aus Class III) must go through a full design review which can be costly and take longer to complete. Issued licenses for medical devices do not require renewal, but do require an annual fee to remain active in the TGA registry of devices. Australia requires all foreign manufacturers to have an in country &#145;sponsor&#146; who must have a licensed business inside of Australia. 

In China, the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) Medical Device Division regulates and must approve all medical devices to be marketed and sold in China. China has a three-class risk classification system, with Class I being the lowest risk and Class III being the highest risk. Home country approval (510(k) or PMA clearance) is required as a prerequisite to any application. Additionally, the CFDA often tests finished devices at its own testing laboratory to confirm each device&#146;s specifications. The approval process is typically lengthy. As of December 31, 2015, CFDA licenses are valid for five years from date of issuance and require renewal prior to expiration. The CFDA requires all companies located outside of China to appoint a legal entity who maintains a registered business inside of China as the license holder. After the recent formation of our Chinese subsidiary in 2015, we transferred our licenses from our third-party license holders to our subsidiary. 

There can be no assurance that new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws and regulations regarding the release or sale of medical devices will not delay or prevent sale of our current or future products. 

Third-Party Reimbursement 

United States 

Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors (such as indemnity insurers, employer group health insurance programs, and managed care plans) to reimburse all or part of the cost of those products. As a result, demand for our products is and will continue to be dependent in part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors. The manner in which reimbursement is sought and obtained varies based upon the type of payor involved and the setting in which the product is furnished and utilized. For example, Medicare reimbursement policies favor outpatient treatment. Furthermore, payments from Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors are subject to legislative and regulatory changes and are susceptible to budgetary pressures. 

In the United States, third-party payors generally pay healthcare providers directly for the procedures they perform and in certain instances for the products they use. Our sales volumes depend on the extent to which third-party payors cover our products and the procedures in which they are used. In general, a third-party payor only covers a medical product or procedure when the plan administrator is satisfied that the product or procedure is medically necessary because it improves health outcomes, including quality of life or functional ability, in a safe and cost-effective manner. Even if a device has received clearance or approval for marketing by the FDA, there is no assurance that third-party payors will cover the cost of the device and related procedures in which the device is used. 

In many instances, third-party payors cover the procedures performed using our products using price fee schedules that do not vary reimbursement to reflect the cost of the products and equipment used in performing those procedures. In other instances, payment or reimbursement is separately available for the products and equipment used, in addition to payment or reimbursement for the procedure itself. Even if coverage is available, third-party payors may place restrictions on the circumstances in which they provide coverage or may offer reimbursement that is not sufficient to cover the cost of our products. Many of the products that compete with ours are less expensive. Therefore, although coverage may be available for our products and the related procedures, the levels of approved coverage may not be sufficient to justify using our products instead of those of competitors. 

In addition, particularly in concert with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, many third-party payors are moving to managed care systems in which providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person rather than the traditional fee for service model. Managed care providers often attempt to 

&#160; 

control the cost of healthcare by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures. Under current prospective payment systems, such as the diagnosis-related group system and the hospital out-patient prospective payment system, both of which are used by Medicare and in many managed care systems used by private third party payors, the reimbursement for our products will be incorporated into the overall reimbursement of a procedure, and there will be no separate reimbursement for our products. As a result, we cannot be certain that hospital administrators and physicians will purchase our products. 

If hospitals and physicians cannot obtain adequate reimbursement for our products or the procedures in which they are used, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer a material adverse impact . 

Non-U.S. 

Our success in non-U.S. markets will depend largely upon the availability of reimbursement from the third-party payors through which healthcare providers are paid in those markets. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in non-U.S. markets vary significantly by country. The main types of healthcare payment systems are government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. As in the United States, reimbursement is subject to legislative and regulatory changes and is susceptible to budgetary pressures. Reimbursement approval must be obtained individually in each country in which our products are marketed. Outside the United States, we may pursue reimbursement approval in those countries in which we sell directly to the hospital. In other markets, we generally rely on the distributors who sell our products to obtain reimbursement approval in those countries in which they will sell our products. There can be no assurance that reimbursement approval will be received. 

Fraud and Abuse Laws 

We may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for, or recommending a good or service for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. In implementing the statute, the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, has issued a series of regulations, known as the &#147;safe harbors.&#148; These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable element of a safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 

In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the PPACA). The Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which was enacted as part of the PPACA, requires detailed public disclosure of certain payments and &#147;transfers of value&#148; from us to healthcare professionals, such as the payment of royalties, compensation for services provided such as training, consulting, and reimbursement for travel and meal expenses. Certain states also require us to disclose similar information or even prohibit some forms of these payments. 

Employees 

We had 356 employees, including 339 full-time employees, at December 31, 2015. 

&#160; 

Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data 

We operate in one reportable industry segment: the design, marketing, sales and technical support of medical devices and implants for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer. Our chief executive officer reviews financial information, accompanied by information about revenue by geographic region for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Information about segment revenue is included in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Customers 

Our sales are not dependent on any single customer or distributor, and we continue to expand our distribution channel worldwide through direct and indirect sales forces. No single customer accounted for more than 2% of our net sales in 2015. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Massachusetts on November 28, 1983, as Vascutech, Inc. On June 16, 1998, we were reincorporated in Delaware, and on April 6, 2001, we changed our name to LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. On October 19, 2006, we executed our initial public offering, and our common stock trades under the symbol &#147;LMAT.&#148; Our principal executive offices are located at 63 Second Avenue, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803, and our telephone number is (781) 221-2266. 

Where You Can Find More Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through the investor relations portion of our website (www.lemaitre.com) free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, (SEC). Information on our investor relations page and on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of our other securities filings unless specifically incorporated herein or therein by reference. In addition, our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission&#146;s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any materials filed with the Commission at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is included, and we do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Charters of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees are available on our website and are available in print to any stockholder who requests such information. 

&#160;

