 Item 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Live Oak Bancshares, Inc. (&#8220;LOB&#8221; and, collectively with its subsidiaries including Live Oak Banking Company, the &#8220;Company,&#8221; also referred to as "Our" and "We"), headquartered in Wilmington, North Carolina, is the bank holding company for Live Oak Banking Company (the &#8220;Bank&#8221; or "Live Oak Bank"). The Bank is a commercial bank incorporated under the laws of North Carolina in December 2008 and is an established national online platform for small business lending. The Company provides select small businesses across the United States an efficient means to access capital. LOB completed its initial public offering (&#8220;IPO&#8221;) in July 2015. 

The Company 

The Company predominately originates loans partially guaranteed by the U.S. Small Business Administration (the "SBA"), to small businesses and professionals with what the Company believes are lower risk characteristics. Industries, or &#8220;verticals,&#8221; on which the Company focuses its lending efforts are carefully selected. Within each vertical the Company retains individuals who possess extensive industry-specific experience. Additionally, the Company&#8217;s domain experts are engaged and active in each of the industries served. 

In addition to focusing on industry verticals, the Company emphasizes developing detailed knowledge of the customers&#8217; businesses. This knowledge is developed, in part, through regular visits to customers&#8217; operations, wherever they are located. These regular visits are designed to foster both for the Company and for the customer a deep and personalized experience throughout the loan relationship. The Company services customers efficiently throughout the loan process and monitors their performance by means of the technology-based platform, which eliminates the need to maintain traditional branch locations and therefore eliminates a significant component of traditional overhead expense associated with banking franchises. The Company has developed and continues to refine a technology-based platform to facilitate providing financial services to the small business community on a national scale and has leveraged this technology to optimize the Company's loan origination process, customer experience, reporting metrics, and servicing activity. 

For additional information on the Company's business, financial performance and results of operations, see &#8220;Overview&#8221; and &#8220;Executive Summary&#8221; in Part II Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Report. For information on the Company&#8217;s financial information about geographic areas, see Part II Item 8 of this Report. 

LOB's voting common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (&#8220;Nasdaq&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;LOB.&#8221; As of January 31, 2016, there were 277 holders of record of LOB's voting common stock. The Company's principal executive office is located at 1741 Tiburon Drive, Wilmington, North Carolina 28403, telephone number (910) 790-5867. The Company maintains a website at www.liveoakbank.com. Documents available on the website include: (i) the Company's Code of Conduct; and (ii) charters for the Audit &#38; Risk, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy. 

In addition, available free of charge through the Company's website is the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filings are also accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any material LOB files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

The Company also will provide without charge a copy of this Report to any shareholder by mail. Requests should be sent to Live Oak Bancshares, Inc., Attention: Corporate Secretary, 1741 Tiburon Drive, Wilmington, NC 28403. 

Competition 

Commercial banking in the United States is extremely competitive. The Company competes with national banking organizations including the largest commercial banks headquartered in the country, all of which have small business lending divisions. The Company also competes with other federally and state chartered financial institutions such as community banks and credit unions, finance and business development companies, peer-to-peer and marketplace lenders and other non-bank lenders. Most of the Company's competitors have higher legal lending limits and are also able to provide more services and make greater use of media advertising. 

Despite the intense level of competition among small business lenders, the Company believes that it occupies a category of lender distinct from competitors, having both the benefit of deposit funding and the ability to grow quality assets. One of the Company's principal advantages is the technology-based platform it uses, which management believes has accelerated the Company's ability to issue proposals, complete credit due diligence and finalize commitments. The Company believes that its personnel also provides a competitive advantage, not only because they are industry participants with relevant experience in the Company's identified verticals but also because many have made meaningful equity investments in LOB, fostering a sense of ownership. 

The Bank licenses the nCino bank operating system on a nonexclusive basis. As a result, this technology is available to other lenders. However, management believes that the Bank's ability to actively develop and improve upon the existing platform with in-house developers gives the Bank a competitive advantage over competitors who also may use this platform. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 327 full-time employees and 39 part-time employees. None of these employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers relations with employees to be good. 

Subsidiaries 

In addition to the Bank, the Company holds the following wholly owned subsidiaries: Live Oak Grove, LLC, opened in September 2015 for the purpose of providing Company employees and business visitors an on-site restaurant location; Government Loan Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;GLS&#8221;), a management and technology consulting firm that specializes in the settlement, accounting, and securitization processes for government guaranteed loans, including loans originated under the SBA 7(a) loan program and USDA-guaranteed loans; and 504 Fund Advisors, LLC (&#8220;504FA&#8221;), formed to serve as the investment advisor to the 504 Fund, a closed-end mutual fund organized to invest in SBA section 504 loans. Until it was dissolved at the end of December 2015, the Company also owned Independence Aviation, LLC, which was formed for the purpose of purchasing and operating aircraft used for business purposes of the Company. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Federal Bank Holding Company Regulation and Structure 

As a registered bank holding company, LOB is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act, or BHCA, and to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;). The Bank is a North Carolina-chartered commercial bank and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks, or NCCOB. 

The BHCA requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: 

&#8226; 

it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after the acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of the bank; 

&#8226; 

it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank; or 

&#8226; 

it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. 

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or that would substantially lessen competition in the banking business, unless the public interest in meeting the needs of the communities to be served outweighs the anti-competitive effects. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks involved and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues focuses, in part, on the performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, both of which are discussed elsewhere in more detail. 

Subject to various exceptions, the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with related regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company. Control is also presumed to exist, although rebuttable, if a person or company acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities and either: 

&#8226; 

the bank holding company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act; or 

&#8226; 

no other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. 

LOB's common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. The regulations provide a procedure for challenging rebuttable presumptions of control. 

The BHCA generally prohibits a bank holding company from retaining direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company or engaging in activities other than banking, managing or controlling banks or other permissible subsidiaries and acquiring or retaining direct or indirect control of any company engaged in any activities other than activities closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve considers whether performing the activity can be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. The Federal Reserve has the power to order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or control of any subsidiary when the continuation of the activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company. 

Under the BHCA, a bank holding company may file an election with the Federal Reserve to be treated as a financial holding company and engage in an expanded list of financial activities. The election must be accompanied by a certification that all of the company&#8217;s insured depository institution subsidiaries are &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed.&#8221; Additionally, the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 rating of each subsidiary bank must be satisfactory or better. If, after becoming a financial holding company and undertaking activities not permissible for a bank holding company, the company fails to continue to meet any of the prerequisites for financial holding company status, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. LOB has not filed an election to become a financial holding company. 

Under Federal Reserve policy and as has been recently codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for Live Oak Bank and to commit resources to support Live Oak Bank. This support may be required at times when LOB might not be inclined to provide it or it might not be in LOB's best interests or the best interests of its shareholders. In addition, any capital loans made by the Company to Live Oak Bank will be repaid only after Live Oak Bank&#8217;s deposits and various other obligations are repaid in full. 

Live Oak Bank is also subject to numerous state and federal statutes and regulations that affect its business, activities and operations and is supervised and examined by state and federal bank regulatory agencies. The FDIC and the NCCOB regularly examine the operations of Live Oak Bank and are given the authority to approve or disapprove mergers, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. These agencies also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. 

Bank Merger Act 

Section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, popularly known as the &#8220;Bank Merger Act,&#8221; requires the prior written approval of appropriate federal bank regulatory agencies before any bank may (i) merge or consolidate with, (ii) purchase or otherwise acquire the assets of, or (iii) assume the deposit liabilities of, another bank if the resulting institution is to be a state nonmember bank. 

The Bank Merger Act prohibits the applicable federal bank regulatory agency from approving any proposed merger transaction that would result in a monopoly, or would further a combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. Similarly, the Bank Merger Act prohibits the applicable federal bank regulatory agency from approving a proposed merger transaction whose effect in any section of the country may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade. An exception may be made in the case of a merger transaction whose effect would be to substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or otherwise restrain trade, if the applicable federal bank regulatory agency finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

In every proposed merger transaction, the applicable federal bank regulatory agency must also consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the existing and proposed institutions, the convenience and needs of the community to be served, and the effectiveness of each insured depository institution involved in the proposed merger transaction in combating money-laundering activities, including in overseas branches. 

State Law 

Live Oak Bank is subject to extensive supervision and regulation by the NCCOB. The NCCOB oversees state laws that set specific requirements for bank capital and that regulate deposits in, and loans and investments by, banks, including the amounts, types, and in some cases, rates. The NCCOB supervises and performs periodic examinations of North Carolina-chartered banks to assure compliance with state banking statutes and regulations, and banks are required to make regular reports to the NCCOB describing in detail their resources, assets, liabilities, and financial condition. Among other things, the NCCOB regulates mergers and consolidations of state-chartered banks, capital requirements for banks, loans to officers and directors, record keeping, types and amounts of loans and investments, and the establishment of branches. 

The NCCOB has extensive enforcement authority over North Carolina banks. Such authority includes the ability to issue cease and desist orders and to seek civil money penalties. The NCCOB may also take possession of a North Carolina bank in various circumstances, including for a violation of its charter or of applicable laws, operating in an unsafe and unsound manner, or as a result of an impairment of its capital, and may appoint a receiver. 

On October 1, 2012, the North Carolina Banking Law Modernization Act became effective and many of the state banking laws to which Live Oak Bank is subject were amended. Under the revised banking laws, the NCCOB continues to enforce specific requirements for bank capital, the payment of dividends, loans to officers and directors, record keeping, and types and amounts of loans and investments made by commercial banks. 

The Company is also required to maintain registration as a bank holding company with the NCCOB. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company may not acquire control over another bank or bank holding company or consummate a merger or other combination transaction with another company without the prior approval of the NCCOB. The NCCOB also has authority to assert civil money penalties against a holding company if the NCCOB determines such holding company to be in violation of any banking laws and the holding company fails to comply with an NCCOB order to cease and desist from such violations of law. 

Payment of Dividends and Other Restrictions 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. While there are various legal and regulatory limitations under federal and state law on the extent to which banks can pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to holding companies, the principal source of cash revenues for the Company is dividends from the Bank. The relevant federal and state regulatory agencies have authority to prohibit a state bank or bank holding company, which would include the Bank and the Company, from engaging in what, in the opinion of such regulatory body, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business. The payment of dividends could, depending upon the financial condition of a bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business. 

North Carolina commercial banks, such as Live Oak Bank, are subject to legal limitations on the amounts of dividends they are permitted to pay. Specifically, an insured depository institution, such as Live Oak Bank, is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; (as such term is defined in the applicable law and regulations). 

The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the Federal Reserve&#8217;s view that a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the holding company&#8217;s net income for the past four quarters is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earning retention that is consistent with the holding company&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve also indicated that it would be inappropriate for a holding company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Furthermore, under the prompt corrective action regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve, the Federal Reserve may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if any of the holding company&#8217;s bank subsidiaries are classified as undercapitalized. 

A bank holding company is required to give the Federal Reserve prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of its outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10% or more of its consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve order or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve. 

Capital Adequacy 

The Company must comply with the Federal Reserve&#8217;s established capital adequacy standards, and Live Oak Bank is required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by the FDIC. The Federal Reserve has promulgated two basic measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. A bank holding company must satisfy all applicable capital standards to be considered in compliance. 

The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profile among banks and bank holding companies, account for off-balance-sheet exposure and minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. 

Assets and off-balance-sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. Under revised capital standards that apply to us and the Bank as of January 1, 2015, the minimum risk-based capital ratios are a common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 6%, and a total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 8%. In addition, to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, the Company and the Bank are required to meet a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in addition to the minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio. The capital conservation buffer will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 until January 1, 2019, at which point it will be set at 2.5% common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, which sits &#8220;on top&#8221; of the 4.5% minimum common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets ratio. Common equity Tier 1 capital is predominantly comprised of retained earnings and common stock instruments (that meet strict delineated criteria), net of treasury stock, and after making necessary capital deductions and adjustments. Tier 1 capital is comprised of common equity Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital, which consists of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and similar instruments meeting specified eligibility criteria and &#8220;TARP&#8221; preferred stock and other instruments issued under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Total capital is comprised of Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital, which consists of subordinated debt with a minimum original maturity of at least five years and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. 

At December 31, 2015, the Company's risk-based capital ratios, as calculated under the revised capital standards applicable as of January 1, 2015, were 23.22% common equity Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets, 23.22% Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets, and 24.12% total capital to risk weighted assets. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total on-balance sheet assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, of 4% for bank holding companies. The Company&#8217;s ratio at December 31, 2015 was 18.36% compared to 13.38% at December 31, 2014. The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a &#8220;tangible Tier 1 Capital leverage ratio&#8221; and other indications of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. 

Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on taking brokered deposits and certain other restrictions on its business. As described below, the FDIC can impose substantial additional restrictions upon FDIC-insured depository institutions that fail to meet applicable capital requirements. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or FDI Act, requires the federal regulatory agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; if a depository institution does not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDI Act establishes five capital tiers: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A depository institution&#8217;s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. 

The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted regulations establishing relevant capital measures and relevant capital levels applicable to FDIC-insured banks. The relevant capital measures are the Total Risk-Based Capital ratio, Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio, Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio and the leverage ratio. As of January 1, 2015, an FDIC-insured bank was: 

&#8226; 

&#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6.5% or greater and a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to any order or written directive by the appropriate regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 6% or greater, a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 4.5% or greater and a leverage ratio of 4% or greater and is not &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 8%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 6%, a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of less than 4% or a leverage ratio of less than 4%; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 4%, a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio of less than 3%; and 

&#8226; 

&#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2% of average quarterly tangible assets. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. As of December 31, 2015, Live Oak Bank had capital levels that qualify as &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the regulations applicable as of January 1, 2015. 

The FDI Act generally prohibits an FDIC-insured bank from making a capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the bank is or would thereafter be &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; banks are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The federal regulators may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the bank&#8217;s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the bank&#8217;s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan until the institution has been adequately capitalized on average during each of four consecutive calendar quarters. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under such guaranty is limited to the lesser of: (i) an amount equal to 5% of the bank&#8217;s total assets at the time it became &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221;; and (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a bank fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; 

&#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; insured banks may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; requirements to reduce total assets and the cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. A bank that is not &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; is also subject to certain limitations relating to brokered deposits. 

The regulatory capital framework under which the Company and Live Oak Bank operate has recently changed in significant respects as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010, and other regulations, including the separate regulatory capital requirements put forth by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly known &#8220;Basel III.&#8221; 

In July 2013, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency approved final rules that establish an integrated regulatory capital framework that addresses shortcomings in certain capital requirements. The rules implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These rule began to apply to the Company effective January 1, 2015. 

The major provisions of the rule applicable to the Company are: 

&#8226; 

The rule implements higher minimum capital requirements, includes a new common equity Tier1 capital requirement, and establishes criteria that instruments must meet in order to be considered Common Equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital, or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements are intended to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required to be held by banking organizations. The minimum capital to risk-weighted assets (&#8220;RWA&#8221;) requirements under the rule are a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, which is an increase from 4.0%, and a total capital ratio that remains at 8.0%. The minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to total assets) is 4.0%. The rule maintains the general structure of the current prompt corrective action, or PCA, framework while incorporating these increased minimum requirements. 

&#8226; 

The rule implements changes to the definition of capital. Among the most important changes are stricter eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments that would disallow the inclusion of instruments such as trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital going forward, and new constraints on the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage-servicing assets (&#8220;MSAs&#8221;), deferred tax assets (&#8220;DTAs&#8221;), and certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions. In addition, the rule requires that certain regulatory capital deductions be made from common equity Tier 1 capital. 

&#8226; 

Under the rule, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, a banking organization must hold a capital conservation buffer composed of common equity Tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The buffer is measured relative to RWA. Phase-in of the capital conservation buffer requirements began on January 1, 2016. A banking organization with a buffer greater than 2.5% would not be subject to limits on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments; however, a banking organization with a buffer of less than 2.5% would be subject to increasingly stringent limitations as the buffer approaches zero. The rule also prohibits a banking organization from making distributions or discretionary bonus payments during any quarter if its eligible retained income is negative in that quarter and its capital conservation buffer ratio was less than 2.5% at the beginning of the quarter. When the rule is fully phased in, the minimum capital requirements plus the capital conservation buffer will exceed the PCA well-capitalized thresholds. 

&#8226; 

The rule also increases the risk weights for past-due loans, certain commercial real estate loans, and some equity exposures, and makes selected other changes in risk weights and credit conversion factors. 

On July 9, 2013, the FDIC confirmed that it would join in the Basel III standards and, on September 10, 2013, issued an &#8220;interim final rule&#8221; applicable to the Bank that is identical in substance to the final rules issued by the Federal Reserve described above. The Bank was required to comply with the interim final rule beginning on January 1, 2015. Compliance by LOB and the Bank with these capital requirements affects their respective operations by increasing the amount of capital required to conduct operations. 

Acquisitions 

The Company must comply with numerous laws related to any potential acquisition activity. Under the BHCA, a bank holding company may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any bank or merge or consolidate with another bank holding company without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. The acquisition of non-banking companies is also regulated by the Federal Reserve. Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and bank holding companies without geographic limitation. Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, as long as neither of the states has opted out of such interstate merger authority prior to such date, and subject to any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and to certain deposit market-share limitations. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. Additionally, since passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank is now permitted to open a de novo branch in any state if that state would permit a bank organized in that state to open a branch. 

Restrictions on Affiliate Transactions 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act establish parameters for a bank to conduct &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with its affiliates, with the objective of limiting risk to the insured bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B (i) limit the extent to which the bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and limit the aggregate of all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the bank or subsidiary as those that would be provided to a non-affiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans to the affiliate, purchase of assets from the affiliate, issuance of a guaranty on behalf of the affiliate and several other types of transactions. 

The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new restrictions on transactions between affiliates by amending these two sections of the Federal Reserve Act. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, restrictions on transactions with affiliates are enhanced by (i) including among &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; transactions between bank and affiliate-advised investment funds; (ii) including among &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; transactions between a bank and an affiliate with respect to securities repurchase agreements and derivatives transactions; (iii) adopting stricter collateral rules; and (iv) imposing tighter restrictions on transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments 

The assessment rate paid by each DIF member institution is based on its relative risks of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other factors. Specifically, the assessment rate is based on the institution&#8217;s capitalization risk category and supervisory subgroup category. An institution&#8217;s capitalization risk category is based on the FDIC&#8217;s determination of whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately capitalized or less than adequately capitalized. Live Oak Bank&#8217;s insurance assessments during 2015 and 2014 were $514 thousand and $251 thousand, respectively. An institution&#8217;s supervisory subgroup category is based on the FDIC&#8217;s assessment of the financial condition of the institution and the probability that FDIC intervention or other corrective action will be required. The FDIC may terminate insurance of deposits upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. 

The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the base for FDIC insurance assessments, requiring that assessments be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule to implement the foregoing provision of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the final rule revised the assessment rate schedule to provide initial base assessment rates ranging from 5 to 35 basis points, subject to adjustments which could increase or decrease the total base assessment rates. The FDIC has three possible adjustments to an institution&#8217;s initial base assessment rate: (1) a decrease of up to five basis points (or 50% of the initial base assessment rate) for long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt (other than debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program) and subordinated debt; (2) an increase for holding long-term unsecured or subordinated debt issued by other insured depository institutions known as the Depository Institution Debt Adjustment; and (3) for institutions not well rated and well capitalized, an increase not to exceed 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10 percent of domestic deposits. 

The law also gives the FDIC enhanced discretion to set assessment rate levels. 

The FDIC also collects a deposit-based assessment from insured financial institutions on behalf of the Financing Corporation, or the FICO. The funds from these assessments are used to service debt issued by FICO in its capacity as a financial vehicle for the Federal Savings &#38; Loan Insurance Corporation. The FICO assessment rate is set quarterly and in 2015 ranged from .150 basis points in the first quarter to .145 basis points in the fourth quarter per $100 of assessable deposits. These assessments will continue until the debt matures in 2017 through 2019. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to encourage financial institutions to meet the credit needs of low and moderate-income borrowers in their local communities. An institution&#8217;s size and business strategy determines the type of examination that it will receive. Large, retail-oriented institutions are examined using a performance-based lending, investment and service test. Small institutions are examined using a streamlined approach. All institutions may opt to be evaluated under a strategic plan formulated with community input and pre-approved by the bank regulatory agency. 

The Community Reinvestment Act regulations provide for certain disclosure obligations. Each institution must post a notice advising the public of its right to comment to the institution and its regulator on the institution&#8217;s Community Reinvestment Act performance and to review the institution&#8217;s Community Reinvestment Act public file. Each lending institution must maintain for public inspection a file that includes a listing of branch locations and services, a summary of lending activity, a map of its communities and any written comments from the public on its performance in meeting community credit needs. The Community Reinvestment Act requires public disclosure of the regulators&#8217; written Community Reinvestment Act evaluations of financial institutions. This promotes enforcement of Community Reinvestment Act requirements by providing the public with the status of a particular institution&#8217;s community reinvestment record. 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act made various changes to the Community Reinvestment Act. Among other changes, Community Reinvestment Act agreements with private parties must be disclosed and annual Community Reinvestment Act reports relating to such agreements must be made available to a bank&#8217;s primary federal regulator. A bank holding company will not be permitted to become a financial holding company and no new activities authorized under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act may be commenced by a holding company or by a bank financial subsidiary if any of its bank subsidiaries received less than a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act rating in its latest Community Reinvestment Act examination. Live Oak Bank operates under an approved CRA strategic plan and received an &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; rating in its last CRA examination, which was conducted as of April 15, 2013. 

The Volcker Rule 

Under provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule,&#8221; certain limitations are placed on the ability of insured depository institutions and their affiliates to engage in sponsoring, investing in and transacting with certain investment funds, including hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also places restrictions on proprietary trading, which could impact certain hedging activities. The Volcker Rule became fully effective in July 2015, and banking entities currently have until July 2016 to divest certain legacy investments in covered funds. The Volcker Rule is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's operations. 

Additional Legislative and Regulatory Matters 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA PATRIOT Act, requires each financial institution: (i) to establish an anti-money laundering program; (ii) to establish due diligence policies, procedures and controls with respect to its private banking accounts involving foreign individuals and certain foreign banks; and (iii) to avoid establishing, maintaining, administering or managing correspondent accounts in the United States for, or on behalf of, foreign banks that do not have a physical presence in any country. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe by regulation minimum standards that financial institutions must follow to verify the identity of customers, both foreign and domestic, when a customer opens an account. In addition, the USA PATRIOT Act contains a provision encouraging cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory authorities and law enforcement authorities with respect to individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. 

Sarbanes-Oxley mandates for public companies, such as the Company, a variety of reforms intended to address corporate and accounting fraud and provides for the establishment of the PCAOB, which enforces auditing, quality control and independence standards for firms that audit SEC-reporting companies. Sarbanes-Oxley imposes higher standards for auditor independence and restricts the provision of consulting services by auditing firms to companies they audit and requires that certain audit partners be rotated periodically. It also requires chief executive officers and chief financial officers, or their equivalents, to certify the accuracy of periodic reports filed with the SEC, subject to civil and criminal penalties if they knowingly or willfully violate this certification requirement, and increases the oversight and authority of audit committees of publicly traded companies. 

Fiscal and Monetary Policy 

Banking is a business which depends on interest rate differentials for success. In general, the difference between the interest paid by a bank on its deposits and its other borrowings, and the interest received by a bank on its loans and securities holdings, constitutes a significant portion of a bank&#8217;s earnings. Thus, the Company's earnings and growth will be subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money through various means, including open market dealings in United States government securities, the discount rate at which banks may borrow from the Federal Reserve and the reserve requirements on deposits. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies and their effect on the Company's business and results of operations cannot be predicted. 

Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect the Company's future operations. Banking legislation and regulations may limit the Company's growth and the return to its investors by restricting certain of its activities. 

In addition, capital requirements could be changed and have the effect of restricting the activities of the Company or requiring additional capital to be maintained. The Company cannot predict with certainty what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on the Company's business and results of operations. 

Real Estate Lending Evaluations 

The federal regulators have adopted uniform standards for evaluations of loans secured by real estate or made to finance improvements to real estate. Banks are required to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending policies consistent with safe and sound banking practices and appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its operations. The regulations establish loan to value ratio limitations on real estate loans. Live Oak Bank&#8217;s respective loan policies establish limits on loan to value ratios that are equal to or less than those established in such regulations. 

Commercial Real Estate Concentrations 

Lending operations of commercial banks may be subject to enhanced scrutiny by federal banking regulators based on a bank&#8217;s concentration of commercial real estate, or CRE, loans. On December 6, 2006, the federal banking regulators issued final guidance to remind financial institutions of the risk posed by commercial real estate, or CRE, lending concentrations. CRE loans generally include land development, construction loans, and loans secured by multifamily property, and nonfarm, nonresidential real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property. The guidance prescribes the following guidelines for bank examiners to help identify institutions that are potentially exposed to significant CRE risk and may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny: 

&#8226; 

total reported loans for construction, land development and other land, or C&#38;D, represent 100% or more of the institution&#8217;s total capital; or 

&#8226; 

total CRE loans represent 300% or more of the institution&#8217;s total capital, and the outstanding balance of the institution&#8217;s CRE loan portfolio has increased over 50% or more during the prior 36 months. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Bank's C&#38;D concentration as a percentage of bank capital totaled 228.3% and the Bank's CRE concentration, net of owner-occupied loans, as a percentage of capital totaled 46.9%. 

Limitations on Incentive Compensation 

In October 2009, the Federal Reserve issued proposed guidance designed to help ensure that incentive compensation policies at banking organizations do not encourage excessive risk-taking or undermine the safety and soundness of the organization. In connection with the proposed guidance, the Federal Reserve announced that it would review incentive compensation arrangements of bank holding companies such as the Company as part of the regular, risk-focused supervisory process. 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued the incentive compensation guidance in final form and was joined by the FDIC, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The final guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward and, thus, do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization&#8217;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#8217;s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

Economic Environment 

The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, have a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the means available to the Federal Reserve to affect the money supply are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s monetary policies have materially affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The nature of future monetary policies and the effect of these policies on the Company's business and earnings cannot be predicted. 

Evolving Legislation and Regulatory Action 

In 2009, many emergency government programs enacted in 2008 in response to the financial crisis and the recession slowed or wound down, and global regulatory and legislative focus has generally moved to a second phase of broader regulatory reform and a restructuring of the entire financial regulatory system. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in 2010 and implements many new changes in the way financial and banking operations are regulated in the United States, including through the creation of a new resolution authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions intended to strengthen the financial services sector. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or the FSOC, was created and is charged with overseeing and coordinating the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the SEC) in establishing regulations to address systemic financial stability concerns. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, was also created as a new consumer financial services regulator. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices and ensure that consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services and that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. 

New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations, including changes in interpretation or enforcement, could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years. As a result, the overall financial impact on the Company and Live Oak Bank cannot be anticipated at this time. 

Small Business Lending Fund 

The Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 created the Small Business Lending Fund to invest capital into community banking organizations. Through the fund, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the &#8220;U.S. Treasury&#8221;) invested in financial institutions through the purchase of senior preferred stock or indebtedness. The U.S. Treasury could invest up to 5% of risk-weighted assets for financial institutions with $1 billion of total assets or less as of December 31, 2009, or up to 3% of risk-weighted assets for financial institutions with more than $1 billion, but less than $10 billion, in total assets on that date. In April 2011, the Company elected to participate in the program and issued $6.8 million in senior securities to the U.S. Treasury (&#8220;SBLF Securities&#8221;). In December 2015, the Company redeemed the SBLF Securities by repaying $6.8 million to the U.S. Treasury, which amount was equal to the funding along with accrued but unpaid interest. 

Federal and State Taxation 

The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return and separate state income tax returns in North Carolina. All the returns are filed on a calendar year basis. Consolidated income tax returns have the effect of eliminating intercompany income and expense, including dividends, from the computation of consolidated taxable income for the taxable year in which the items occur. In accordance with an income tax sharing agreement, income tax charges or credits are allocated among Live Oak and its subsidiaries on the basis of their respective taxable income or taxable loss that is included in the consolidated income tax return. 

Banks and bank holding companies are subject to federal and state income taxes in essentially the same manner as other corporations. Taxable income is generally calculated under applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;), with some modifications required by state law. Although Live Oak&#8217;s federal income tax liability is determined under provisions of the Code, which is applicable to all taxpayers, Sections 581 through 597 of the Code apply specifically to financial institutions. 

