 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Our Company

El Pollo Loco is a differentiated and growing restaurant concept that specializes in fire-grilling citrus-marinated chicken and operates in the limited service restaurant (&#8220;LSR&#8221;) segment. We believe that we offer the quality of food and dining experience typical of fast casual restaurants while providing the speed, convenience, and value typical of traditional quick-service restaurants (&#8220;QSRs&#8221;), a combination that we call &#8220;QSR+&#8221; and that provides a value-oriented fast casual dining experience. Our distinctive menu features our signature product&#8212;citrus-marinated fire-grilled chicken&#8212;and a variety of Mexican-inspired entrees that we create from our chicken. Every day in every restaurant, we marinate and fire-grill our chicken over open flames, and hand-slice whole tomatoes, avocados, serrano peppers, and cilantro to make our salsas, guacamole, and cilantro dressings from scratch. The design of our kitchens reveals our Mexican-inspired cooking process and allows our customers to watch our grill masters and team members fire-grill and hand-cut our signature chicken, as well as make burritos, salads, tostadas, bowls, stuffed quesadillas, and chicken entrees.

We offer our customers healthier alternatives to traditional food on the go, served by our team members in a colorful, bright, and contemporary restaurant environment. We serve individual and family-sized chicken meals, a variety of Mexican-inspired entrees, and sides, and, throughout the year, on a limited-time basis, additional proteins like shrimp, carnitas, and beef. Our entrees include favorites such as our Chicken Avocado Burrito, Under 500 Calorie entrees, Ultimate Pollo Bowl, Baja Shrimp Tacos, and Stuffed Chicken Avocado Quesadilla. Our salsas and dressings are prepared fresh daily, allowing our customers to create their favorite flavor profiles to enhance their culinary experience. Our distinctive menu with healthier alternatives appeals to consumers across a wide variety of socio-economic backgrounds and drives our balanced composition of sales throughout the day (our &#8220;day-part mix&#8221;), including at lunch and dinner.

El Pollo Loco is Spanish for &#8220;The Crazy Chicken.&#8221; We opened our first location on Alvarado Street in Los Angeles, California, in 1980, and have grown our restaurant system to 433 restaurants, comprised of 186 company-operated and 247 franchised restaurants as of December 30, 2015. Our restaurants are located in California, Arizona, Nevada, Texas, and Utah. Our typical restaurant is a free-standing building with drive-thru service that ranges in size from 2,200 to 3,000 square feet with seating for approximately 70 people.

Our Industry

The restaurant industry is divided into two segments: full service and limited service. Full service is comprised of the casual dining, mid-scale, and fine dining sub-segments. Limited service is comprised of the QSR and fast casual sub-segments. QSRs are traditional fast food restaurants with average check sizes of $3.00 to $8.00. Fast casual is a limited or self-service format with average check sizes of $8.00 to $12.00 that offers food prepared to order within a generally more upscale and developed establishment.

We operate within the broader LSR segment, and we believe that we offer the food and dining experience of a fast casual restaurant and the speed, value, and convenience of a QSR. We believe that our value-oriented fast casual positioning best aligns with fast casual restaurants because we believe that we offer the method of preparation, quality of food, and dining experience typical of fast casual restaurants. We believe that our differentiated menu, colorful, bright, and contemporary restaurant environments, and convenient locations position us to compete successfully against other fast casual and QSR concepts, providing us with a large addressable market.

We believe that we are also well-positioned to benefit from a number of culinary and demographic trends in the United States. We expect that the trend towards healthier eating will attract and increase consumer demand for fresh and hand-prepared dishes, leading to a positive impact on our sales. Furthermore, as indicated by recent high growth in the Mexican restaurant segment, we expect to benefit from increased acceptance of Mexican food in the United States in the general market. Finally, we also anticipate benefits from the continued growth of the Hispanic population in the United States, which, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, has grown from 50.5 million people in 2009 to an estimated 56.8 million people in 2015, and is projected to reach 77.5 million in 2030. The growth of the Hispanic population is expected to outpace overall population growth, and the Hispanic population as a percentage of the total U.S. population is expected to increase from 17.7% in 2015 to 21.6% by 2030.

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that the following strengths differentiate us from our competitors and serve as the foundation for our continued growth:

&#8220;Loco-ly&#8221; Differentiated Restaurant Concept with Broad Appeal . We believe that our food, served in colorful, bright, and contemporary restaurant environments at reasonable prices, positions us well to satisfy the needs of a large segment of time-pressured mainstream food enthusiasts who seek real food, real fast, and at reasonable prices. We provide our customers with the opportunity to enjoy citrus-marinated fire-grilled chicken and Mexican-inspired entrees containing distinctive ingredients such as avocados, mangos, and serrano peppers at price points that appeal to a broad consumer base. We believe that our entree prices are typically lower than the fast casual segment, and a slight premium to the QSR segment. We prepare our entrees to order in approximately four minutes and allow our customers the option to create their favorite flavor profiles using our freshly-prepared salsas before they enjoy their meals in our dining rooms or take their meals to go from the counter or the drive-thru. We also believe that our concept, which integrates the complexity of creating real food in real kitchens with the speed of our service model and the skill of our trained and certified Grill Masters, provides a layer of competitive insulation around our restaurant model. Based on an external research report and a customer satisfaction survey, we believe that our positioning appeals to a broad customer base, and that our brand crosses over traditional age, ethnic, and income demographics, giving consumers the best of both the fast casual and QSR segments. Our differentiated QSR+ positioning sources traffic from both dining segments and as a result we expect it to drive transaction growth in the future. 

Mexican-Inspired, Fresh-Made &#8220;Crazy You Can Taste&#8221; Fire-Grilled Chicken and Entrees . Our signature product is our chicken, marinated with a proprietary recipe of citrus juice, garlic, and spices, which serves as the foundation of our distinctive menu of flavorful bone-in chicken meals and Mexican-inspired entrees. With menu items such as our Chicken Avocado Burrito, Chicken Tostada Salad, Pollo Bowl &#174; , and Chicken Avocado Stuffed Quesadilla, we believe that we offer our customers a healthier alternative to traditional food on-the-go. Our entrees are prepared using fresh ingredients with recipes inspired by Mexican cuisine. The majority of our menu items are made from scratch, including our bone-in chicken and chicken breasts, rice, salsas, guacamole, and cilantro dressing, meaning that we make them without pre-prepared ingredients. These items start with our chicken, which is marinated in our restaurants daily. From there, our Grill Masters fire-grill and hand-chop our chicken, forming the foundation for our entrees. To complement our entrees, our team members slice and chop whole tomatoes, avocados, serrano peppers, and cilantro to create our salsas, guacamole, and cilantro dressings. In addition, our rice is seasoned, and simmered in our restaurants daily. Our salsas and dressings complement our recipes and allow our customers to enhance their culinary experience with customized flavor profiles. 

Our strategic approach to menu design has resulted in a balanced menu with broad appeal, as demonstrated by our balanced day-part mix. Our bone-in chicken meals and Mexican-inspired entrees accounted for 47% and 53% of our company-operated restaurant sales, respectively, in fiscal 2015. Our individual and family-sized chicken meals appeal to customers looking to dine at the restaurant or take out during dinner time, while our more-portable Mexican-inspired entrees draw traffic from customers at lunch time or for an afternoon snack, enabling us to generate sales almost equally between lunch and dinner. We believe that our family-sized chicken meals provide a healthier and convenient alternative for mothers and families looking to solve the &#8220;dinnertime dilemma&#8221; of providing their families with high-quality meals without investing significant time or money. In fiscal 2015 and 2014, approximately 28% of our company-operated sales were generated from family-sized meals.

Inviting Experience That Welcomes Our Customers . We believe that our Hacienda restaurant design creates an inviting restaurant environment. The exteriors of our restaurants feature a signature grill architectural element that reinforces our core brand, and our interiors feature large, open kitchens that allow customers to watch our grill masters prepare our fire-grilled chicken. Our restaurants also feature complimentary self-serve salsa bars that are located at the fronts of our restaurants for added convenience. The salsa bars invite customers to customize their meals with several salsas prepared fresh every day. Our colorful and contemporary dining rooms include comfortable booths and chairs, while large windows and soft lighting fill our restaurants with light and warmth. Our customers are responding positively to our Hacienda design, as comparable restaurant sales have increased on average an additional 3% to 4% at remodeled locations. As of the end of fiscal 2015, over 70% of our restaurant system is new or remodeled and we expect to have completed the remodeling program by 2018. 

We believe that the atmosphere and quality of service that we provide to our customers encourages repeat visits and brand advocacy and drives increased sales. Our team members are trained to engage with our customers in a genuine way to provide a personalized experience, and strive to make each experience in our restaurant better than the last.

Well-Developed Operations Infrastructure that Allows for Real-time Control, Fast Feedback, and Innovation . We believe that satisfying our customers&#8217; dining needs is the foundation for our business, and we have a well-developed operations platform that allows us to measure our performance in meeting and exceeding those needs. We utilize a state-of-the-art operations dashboard that aggregates real-time, restaurant-level information for nearly every aspect of our business. The dashboard provides corporate and field management, as well as restaurant-level operators, with insight into how we are performing both from the customer&#8217;s perspective and also through the eyes of experienced third-party auditors. To put the metrics into perspective, we are able to measure current performance against 

benchmarks derived from a broad selection of fast casual and QSR brands. At the restaurant level, we use sophisticated technology to constantly monitor key o perational data regarding sales performance, speed-of-service metrics, and food and labor cost controls. The intelligence provided by our operations infrastructure allows both our company-operated and our franchised restaurant managers to make rapid and ob jective decisions to maintain our standards for food and service. 

Developing High Average Unit Volumes (&#8220;AUVs&#8221;) and Strong Unit Economics One Chicken at a Time. We believe that our differentiated QSR+ positioning drives restaurant operating results that are competitive with other leading restaurant concepts in both the fast casual and QSR industry segments. We believe that our restaurant model is designed to generate strong cash flow, consistent restaurant-level financial results, and high returns on invested capital. In fiscal 2015, our company-operated restaurants generated average annual sales per restaurant of approximately $1.9 million and restaurant-level contribution margins of 21.7%. 

Experienced Leadership . Our senior management team has extensive operating experience, with an average of over 20 years of experience each in the restaurant industry. We are led by our Chief Executive Officer, Steve Sather, who joined us in 2006 and was named CEO in January 2011. Other members of the senior leadership team include Larry Roberts as our Chief Financial Officer, Ed Valle as our Chief Marketing Officer, and Kay Bogeajis as our Chief Operating Officer. 

Our Growth Strategy

We believe that we are well-positioned to take advantage of significant growth opportunities because of our differentiated QSR+ positioning, signature fire-grilled chicken, disciplined business model, and strong unit economics. We plan to continue to expand our business, drive restaurant sales growth, improve margins, and enhance our competitive positioning by executing on the following strategies:

Expand Our Restaurant Base . As of December 30, 2015, we had 433 locations in five states. In fiscal 2015, we opened 14 new company-operated and five new franchised restaurants, and in 2016 we intend to open 18-22 new company-operated and 10-15 new franchised restaurants. Over the long term, we plan to grow the number of El Pollo Loco restaurants by 8% to 10% annually. There is no guarantee that we will be able to increase the number of our restaurants. We may be unsuccessful in expanding within our existing or into new markets for a variety of reasons, as detailed in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; including competition for customers, sites, franchisees, employees, licenses, and financing. 

We believe that our restaurant model is designed to generate strong cash flow, attractive restaurant-level financial results, and high returns on invested capital. Our current investment model targets an average new unit cash investment of $1.4-$1.5 million, net of tenant allowances, an AUV of approximately $1.9 million, and a cash-on-cash return in excess of 25% in a restaurant&#8217;s third full year of operations, although there is no guarantee that these targets will be met. 

While most of our growth in 2015 was derived from the expansion of our company-operated restaurant base, we will continue to strategically develop our franchisee relationships and grow our franchised portfolio within existing and new markets. For example, in May of 2015, we entered into exclusive franchise development agreements with Chicken Time Holdings, LP, an affiliate of Henry Investment Group, a Dallas based Family Office (together, &#8220;HIG&#8221;), for seven restaurants in the greater Dallas area. We view our franchise program as an important tool for expanding our brand, allowing us to increase our restaurant penetration. HIG should open their first El Pollo Loco restaurant in 2016.

Increase Our Comparable Restaurant Sales . Our system has experienced 18 straight quarters of comparable restaurant sales growth through our fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2015. We aim to build on this momentum by increasing customer frequency, attracting new customers, and improving per-person spend. Furthermore, we are well positioned to benefit from shifting culinary and demographic trends in the United States. 

Menu Strategy and Evolution . We will continue to adapt our menu to create entrees that complement our signature fire-grilled chicken and that reinforce our differentiated QSR+ positioning. We believe that we have opportunities for menu innovation as we look to provide customers more choices through customization and limited time alternative proteins, such as Baja Shrimp. In addition, we will continue to tap in to the need for healthier offerings by building on the success of our popular &#8220;Under 500 Calorie&#8221; menu and other &#8220;better for you&#8221; products. Our marketing and operations teams collaborate to ensure that the items developed in our test kitchen can be executed to our high standards in our restaurants with the speed and value that our customers have come to expect. 

Increase Brand Awareness and Consumer Engagement . We engage consumers through our 9-module product calendar which features seasonal favorites from our &#8220;Under 500 Calorie&#8221; low calorie menu for New Year&#8217;s resolutions to Double Chicken Salads in Spring, and Stuffed Quesadillas for the winter holiday season. Our key points of differentiation are communicated through our advertising campaign which highlights the lengths we go through to deliver real food cooked on real grills, with real fire. We tailor our message from television and direct mail, which garners broad exposure, to our cost effective e-mail marketing program My Loco Rewards and social media 

platform where we engage in one-on-one conversations to solicit new ideas and deepen the relationship between our customers and our brand. Within our restaurants we continue to engage our custo mers at various points along their path to purchase to further drive our differentiation. 

Hacienda Remodel Program . In 2011, we launched our new Hacienda remodeling program, which on average has resulted in an additional 3% to 4% of comparable restaurant sales for remodeled restaurants. The redesigned Hacienda restaurants highlight our roots, while offering a more modern feel and upscale dining experience. Over 70% of our restaurant system is new or remodeled as of the end of fiscal 2015 and we expect to have completed the remodeling program by 2018. 

Enhance Restaurant Operations and Leverage Our Infrastructure. Since 2011, we have increased our restaurant contribution margin by 300 basis points, to 21.7% in fiscal 2015. We believe that we can further improve our margins by maintaining fiscal discipline, increasing fixed-cost leverage, and enhancing our purchasing efforts. We currently have an infrastructure that allows us and our franchisee partners to grow and manage the productivity of each restaurant on a real-time basis. Additionally, we believe that as our restaurant base matures and AUVs increase we will be able to leverage corporate costs and improve margins. 

In fiscal 2015, we implemented several initiatives intended to improve speed of service and the overall customer experience in our restaurants. These included system-wide implementations of a more efficient center-line layout, simplified product builds, streamlined point-of-sale entry, and introduction of guest pagers in all company-owned restaurants.

Site Selection and Expansion

New Restaurant Development

We believe that we are in the early stages of our growth story and that our restaurant model is designed to generate strong cash flow, attractive restaurant-level financial results, and high returns on invested capital, which we believe provide us with a strong foundation for expansion. In fiscal 2015, we opened 14 new company-operated restaurants, including seven in Houston, Texas, and five new franchised restaurants. In fiscal 2016, we intend to open 18 to 22 new company-operated and 10 to 15 new franchised restaurants. There is no guarantee that we will be able to open new company-operated or franchised restaurants, or to increase the overall number of our restaurants. We may be unsuccessful in expanding within existing or into new markets for a variety of reasons described in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; including competition for customers, sites, franchisees, employees, licenses, and financing. Over the long term, we plan to grow the number of El Pollo Loco restaurants by 8% to 10% annually.

Our strategy for entering new markets is to lead with company development while recruiting and developing franchisees to open new restaurants along with us. This strategy will enable us to establish a development, operations, and marketing infrastructure to help ensure that we maximize our consumer proposition and support franchisees as they enter the market. We anticipate that entering new markets with both company-operated and franchised development is the best way to establish our brand, by enabling rapid scaling, thereby driving operational and marketing efficiencies.

Our expansion strategy is initially focused on the southwestern region of the United States. We believe that this market provides an attractive opportunity to leverage our brand awareness and infrastructure. After thoroughly researching this region, we selected Houston, Texas, as our next new market and since 2014 have opened nine restaurants there. In furtherance of our strategy, in August 2014, we entered into an exclusive franchise development agreement with AA Pollo for 12 restaurants in the Houston area. Driven by the growth in Houston, we announced our continued Texas expansion into the Dallas Market with company and franchise restaurants planned for 2016. In Dallas, we entered into a seven unit, exclusive franchise development agreement with Chicken Time Holdings, LP.

Site Selection Process

We consider the location of a restaurant to be a critical variable in its long-term success and as such, we devote significant effort to the investigation and evaluation of potential restaurant locations. Our in-house development team has over 100 years of combined experience building such brands as Taco Bell, McDonald&#8217;s, Starbucks, Jack-in-the-Box, and Wendy&#8217;s. We use a combination of our in-house development team and outside real estate consultants to locate, evaluate, and negotiate new sites using various criteria, including demographic characteristics, daytime population thresholds, and traffic patterns, along with the potential visibility of, and accessibility to, the restaurant. The process for selecting locations incorporates management&#8217;s experience and expertise and includes extensive data collection and analysis. Additionally, we use information and intelligence gathered from managers and other restaurant personnel that live in or near the neighborhoods that we are considering.

Based on our experience and results, we are currently focused on developing freestanding sites with drive-thrus. Our restaurants perform well in a variety of neighborhoods, which gives us greater flexibility and lowers operating risk when selecting new restaurant locations.

We approve new restaurants only after formal review by our real estate site approval committee, which includes most of our senior management, and we monito r restaurants&#8217; on-going performances to inform future site selection decisions. 

Restaurant Design

After identifying a lease site, we commence our restaurant build-out. Our typical restaurant is a free-standing building with drive-thru service that ranges in size from 2,200 to 3,000 square feet. Our Hacienda restaurant design creates a colorful, bright, and contemporary restaurant environment. The exteriors of our remodeled restaurants feature a signature grill architectural element that reinforces the core brand, and our interiors feature large exhibition kitchens that allow customers to watch our grill masters prepare our fire-grilled chicken. Our colorful and contemporary dining rooms, with seating for approximately 70 people, include comfortable booths and chairs, while large windows and soft lighting fill our restaurants with light and warmth.

Our new restaurants are either ground-up prototypes or conversions. We estimate that each ground-up build-out of a restaurant requires an average total cash investment of approximately $1.4 to $1.5 million, net of tenant allowances. We estimate that each conversion requires a total cash investment of approximately $0.8 to $1.1 million. On average, it takes approximately 12 to 18 months from specific site identification to restaurant opening. In order to maintain consistency of food and customer service, as well as our colorful, bright, and contemporary restaurant environment, we have set processes and timelines to follow for all restaurant openings.

Our restaurants are constructed in approximately 12 weeks, and the development and construction of our new sites is the responsibility of our Development Department. A conversion typically takes approximately two months to complete. Several real estate managers are responsible for locating and leasing potential restaurant sites. Construction managers are then responsible for building our restaurants, and several staff members manage purchasing, budgeting, scheduling, and other related administrative functions.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Service

We are extremely focused on customer service. We aim to provide fast, friendly service on a solid foundation of dedicated, driven team members and managers. Our cashiers are trained on the menu items that we offer, and offer customers thoughtful suggestions to enhance the ordering process. Our team members and managers are responsible for our dining room environment, personally visiting tables to ensure every customer&#8217;s satisfaction and monitoring the fresh salsa bar and beverage station for cleanliness and an ample supply of products.

Operations

We utilize systems that are aimed at measuring our ability to deliver a &#8220;best in class&#8221; experience for our customers. These systems include customer surveys, mystery shopper scores, and speed-of-service performance trends. The operational results from all of these sources are then presented on an operations dashboard that displays the measures in an easy-to-read online format that corporate and restaurant-level management and franchisees can utilize in order to identify strengths and opportunities and to develop specific plans for continuous performance improvement.

In fiscal 2015 we implemented several initiatives intended to improve speed of service and the overall customer experience in our restaurants. These included system-wide implementations of a more efficient center-line layout, simplified product builds, streamlined point-of-sale entry, and the introduction of guest pagers in all company-owned restaurants.

We measure the execution of our system standards within each restaurant through our commitment to our Restaurant Assessment Program (&#8220;RAP&#8221;). RAP audits are conducted in each restaurant twice annually, or may be more frequent based upon restaurant performance. Additionally, we have food safety and quality assurance programs designed to maintain the highest standards for the food and the food preparation procedures that are used by both company-operated and franchised restaurants. We employ third-party auditors that perform our RAP and food safety restaurant audits.

Managers and Team Members

Each of our restaurants typically has a general manager, an assistant manager, two to three shift leaders, and two team leaders. There are between 15 and 35 team members who prepare our food fresh daily and provide customer service. To lead our restaurant management teams, we have area leaders, each of whom is responsible for eight to 12 restaurants. Overseeing the area leaders are three directors of operations. The vice president of operations leads our company-operated restaurants, managing sales, profitability, and customer service targets.

We are selective in our hiring processes, aiming to staff our restaurants with team members who are friendly, customer-focused, and driven to provid e high-quality products. Our team members are cross-trained in several disciplines to maximize depth of competency and efficiency in critical restaurant functions. Our focus on hiring the best possible employees has enabled us to develop a culture that br eeds loyalty throughout our employee base. Many team members and managers have been employed by us for longer than 15 years, and it is not rare to identify team members with more than 20 years of seniority. 

Training

We believe that we have created a culture of constant learning. On the first day of employment, team members are introduced to our brand with a comprehensive training program developed to lead team members through the training process in easy to use, function-based, educational card modules. In 2016, we plan to introduce video training and e-learning with a new Learning Management System.

The vast majority of our restaurant management staff is comprised of former team members who have advanced along the El Pollo Loco five-tier career path. Skilled team members who display leadership qualities are encouraged to enter the team leader training program. Successive steps along the management path add increasing levels of duty and responsibility. Each stage in the management path requires increased training periods, culminating in the general manager training process, which is comprised of seven weeks of intensive classroom and hands-on training in a certified training restaurant.

Grill Masters

Our reputation is built on our signature product&#8212;fired-grilled chicken marinated in citrus and garlic&#8212;which is grilled and hand-cut to order by our Grill Masters. Accordingly, we staff each of our restaurants with three to four highly-trained Grill Masters who share our commitment to high-quality food. We provide each Grill Master with intensive grilling training, and place them in our open kitchens, where our customers can watch them create our signature products.

Franchise Program

Overview

We use a franchising strategy to increase new restaurant growth in certain markets, leveraging the ownership of entrepreneurs with specific local market expertise, and requiring a relatively minimal capital commitment by us. As of December 30, 2015, there were a total of 247 franchised restaurants. Franchisees range in size from single-restaurant operators to the largest franchisee, which owned 63 restaurants as of December 30, 2015. Our existing franchise base consists of many successful, longstanding, multi-unit restaurant operators. As of December 30, 2015, approximately 72% of franchised restaurants were owned and operated by franchisees that had been with us for over 20 years. .

We believe that the franchise revenue generated from our franchise base has historically served as an important source of stable and recurring cash flows to us, and we accordingly plan to expand our base of franchised restaurants. In existing markets, we encourage growth from current franchisees. In our expansion markets, we seek highly-qualified and experienced new franchisees for multi-unit development opportunities. We seek franchisees of successful, non-competitive brands operating in our expansion markets. Through strategic networking and participation in select franchise conferences, we aim to identify highly-qualified prospects. Additionally, we market our franchise opportunities with printed brochures and a website franchising section.

Franchise Owner Support

We believe that creating a foundation of initial and on-going support is important for future success, both for our franchisees and for our brand. Therefore, we have structured our corporate staff, programs, and communication systems to ensure that we are delivering high-quality support to our franchisees.

We have a mandatory training program that was designed to ensure that our franchise owners and their managers are equipped with the knowledge and skills necessary for success. The program consists of hands-on training in the operation and management of an El Pollo Loco restaurant. Training is conducted by a general training manager who has been certified by us for training. Instructional materials for the initial training program include our operations manual, the SPECS crew-training system, wall charts, job aids, recipe books, product build cards, management training materials, a ServSafe food safety book, videos, and other materials that we may create from time to time. Training must be successfully completed before a trainee can be assigned to a restaurant as a manager.

We also provide numerous opportunities for communication and shared feedback between us and franchise owners. Currently, we hold a franchise business update for all franchisees each month, which includes multi-functional Company representat ion and executive attendance. Quarterly, we meet with our Franchise Leadership Team and Marketing Advisory Committee to share ideas and resolve issues. Annually, we hold a conference for our franchisees, vendors, and company leaders, to celebrate our share d successes, discuss best practices, and set the course for the following year. 

Marketing and Advertising

We promote our restaurants and products emphasizing our points of differentiation, from our fresh ingredients and scratch preparation, to the cooking of our citrus-marinated chicken on open fire grills in full view in our kitchens.

We use multiple marketing channels, including television, digital, and print, to broadly drive brand awareness and purchases of our featured products. We advertise on local broadcast and cable television. We complement these methods with direct mail and with our My Loco Rewards e-mail marketing program, which allows us to reach more than 300,000 members. My Loco Rewards is our e-club program. The program offers every member who joins a complimentary order of our handmade guacamole and chips. We engage members via e-mails featuring news of promotional offers, member rewards, and product previews. Members are offered complimentary two-piece meals or tostada salads during their birthday months. My Loco Rewards also allows members to voice their opinions through surveys that provide us with information that helps us define future product concepts. In addition, we use our database to survey and solicit new product ideas.

Through our public relations efforts, we engage notable food editors and bloggers on a range of topics to help promote our products. In addition, we engage in one-on-one conversations using a portfolio of social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. We also use social media as a research and customer service tool, and apply insights gained to future marketing efforts.

We created El Pollo Loco Charities, a non-profit charity, to support the communities surrounding our restaurants. El Pollo Loco Charities has provided over 10,000 meals per year to underprivileged families, through organizations like South County Food Outreach, Habitat for Humanity, Children&#8217;s Institute, and Court Appointed Special Advocates (&#8220;CASA&#8221;).

Purchasing and Distribution

Maintaining a high degree of quality in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire fresh ingredients, and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications, from reliable suppliers. We regularly inspect our vendors to ensure that products purchased conform to our standards and that prices offered are competitive. We have a quality assurance team that performs comprehensive supplier audits on a frequency schedule based on the potential food safety risk for each product. We contract with MBM Corporation (our &#8220;primary distributor&#8221;), a major foodservice distributor, for substantially all of our food and supplies, including the poultry that our restaurants receive from suppliers. Our primary distributor delivers supplies to most of our restaurants three times per week. Our distributor relationship with our primary distributor has been in place since 1997. Our restaurants in Texas and Utah utilize regional distributors. Our franchisees are required to use our primary distributor or an approved regional distributor, and franchisees must purchase food and supplies from approved suppliers. In our normal course of business, we evaluate bids from multiple suppliers for various products. Poultry is our largest product cost item and represented approximately 40% of our total food and paper costs for fiscal 2015. Fluctuations in supply and in price can significantly impact our restaurant service and profit performance. We actively manage cost volatility for poultry by negotiating with multiple suppliers and entering into what we believe are the most favorable contract terms given existing market conditions. In the past, we have entered into contracts ranging from two months to three years, depending on current and expected market conditions. We currently source poultry from six suppliers, with two accounting for approximately 75% of our planned purchases for fiscal 2016. We have fixed prices for 100% of our poultry supply through the end of 2016. 

Intellectual Property

We have registered El Pollo Loco &#174; , Pollo Bowl &#174; , The Crazy Chicken &#174; , and certain other names used by our restaurants as trademarks or service marks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the &#8220;PTO&#8221;), and El Pollo Loco &#174; in approximately 42 foreign countries. Our current brand campaign, Crazy You Can Taste&#8482;, has also been approved for registration with the PTO. In addition, the El Pollo Loco logo, website name and address, and Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube accounts are our intellectual property. Our policy is to pursue and maintain registration of service marks and trademarks in those countries where business strategy requires us to do so, and to oppose vigorously any infringement or dilution of the service marks or trademarks in those countries. We maintain the recipe for our chicken marinade, as well as certain proprietary standards, specifications, and operating procedures, as trade secrets or as confidential proprietary information.

Competition 

We operate in the restaurant industry, which is highly competitive and fragmented. The number, size, and strength of competitors varies by region. Our competition includes a variety of locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains that offer dine-in, carry-out, and delivery services. Our competition from the broadest perspective includes restaurants, pizza parlors, convenience food stores, delicatessens, supermarkets, and club stores. There are no significant direct competitors with respect to menus that feature marinated, fire-grilled chicken. However, we indirectly compete with fast casual restaurants, including Chipotle, Panera, Qdoba, Rubio&#8217;s, and Taco Cabana, among others, and with chicken-specialty QSRs and Mexican QSRs, such as Chick-fil-A, Church&#8217;s Chicken, KFC, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, and Taco Bell, among others.

We believe that competition within the fast casual restaurant segment is based primarily on ambience, price, taste, quality, and freshness of menu items, as well as on the convenience of drive-thru service. We also believe that QSR competition is based primarily on quality, taste, speed of service, value, brand recognition, restaurant location, and customer service. In addition, we compete with franchisors of other restaurant concepts for prospective franchisees.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including regulation of discharges into the air and water, storage and disposal of waste, and clean-up of contaminated soil and groundwater. Under various federal, state, and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, in, or emanating from that property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances.

Certain of our properties may be located on sites that we know or suspect have been used by prior owners or operators as retail gas stations. Such properties previously contained underground storage tanks (&#8220;USTs&#8221;), and while we are not aware of any sites with USTs remaining, it is possible that some of these properties may currently contain abandoned underground storage tanks. We are aware of contamination from a release of hazardous materials by a previous owner at two of our owned properties and one of our leased properties. We do not believe that we have contributed to the contamination at any of these properties. The appropriate state agencies have been notified, and these issues are being handled without disruption to our business. It is possible that petroleum products and other contaminants may have been released at other properties into the soil or groundwater. Under applicable federal and state environmental laws, we, as the current owner or operator of these sites, may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation for any contamination. Although we lease most of our properties, and, when we own, we obtain certain assurances from the prior owner or often obtain indemnity agreements from third parties, we cannot assure you that we will not be liable for environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing, or future restaurants or restaurant sites. If we were found liable for the cost of remediation of contamination at, or emanating from, any of our properties, our operating expenses would likely increase and our operating results would likely be materially and adversely affected.

Since 2000, we have obtained &#8220;Phase One&#8221; environmental reports for new restaurants. Where warranted, we obtain updated reports, and, if necessary, in rare cases, we obtain &#8220;Phase Two&#8221; reports. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties or operations. No assurance can be given that we have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties or that such liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

Regulation and Compliance

We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local government regulations, including those relating to, among other things, public health and safety, zoning and fire codes, and franchising. Failures to obtain or retain food or other licenses and registrations, or exemptions thereto, would adversely affect the operations of restaurants. Although we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, any significant problems in obtaining required licenses, permits, or approvals, any difficulties, delays, or failures in obtaining such licenses, permits, registrations, exemptions, or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of, or adversely impact the viability of, a restaurant in a particular area.

The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We believe that federal and state environmental regulations have not had a material effect on operations, but more stringent and varied requirements of local government bodies with respect to zoning, land use, and environmental factors could delay construction and increase development costs for new restaurants.

We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, and various federal, state and local laws governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, unemployment tax rates, workers&#8217; compensation rates, citizenship requirements, and other working requirements and conditions. A significant portion of our hourly staff is paid at rates consistent with the 

applicable federal , state , or local minimum wage and, accordingly, increases in the applicable minimum wage will increase our labor costs. We are also subject to the Americans With D isabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment, and which may require us to design or modify our restaurants to make reasonable accommodations for disabled individuals. 

For a discussion of the various regulatory and compliance risks that we face, see Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221;

Management Information Systems

All of our company-operated and franchised restaurants use computerized point-of-sale and back-office systems, which we believe can scale to support our long-term growth plans. Our point-of-sale system provides a touch-screen interface and is integrated with segmented EMV tokenized high speed credit and gift card processing hardware. Our point-of-sale system is used to collect daily transaction data, which provides daily sales and product mix information that we actively analyze.

Our in-restaurant back-office computer system is designed to assist in the management of our restaurants and to provide labor and food cost management tools. The system also provides corporate headquarters and restaurant operations management quick access to detailed business data, and reduces the time spent by restaurant managers on administrative needs. The system further provides sales, bank deposit, and variance data to our accounting department on a daily basis. For company-operated restaurants, we use this data to generate weekly consolidated reports regarding sales and other key measures, as well as preliminary weekly profit and loss statements for each location, with final reports following the end of each period.

Employees

As of December 30, 2015, we had approximately 5,171 employees, of whom approximately 5,021 were hourly restaurant employees comprised of 4,262 crewmembers, 191 general managers, 205 assistant managers, 311 shift leaders, and 52 employees in limited-time roles as acting managers or as managers in training. The remaining 150 employees were corporate and office personnel. None of our employees are part of a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that our relationships with our employees are satisfactory.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors and the timing of holidays cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue per restaurant is typically lower in the first and fourth quarters due to reduced January and December traffic and higher in the second and third quarters. As a result of seasonality, our quarterly and annual results of operations and key performance indicators such as company restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate.

Available Information

We make available free of charge on our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Our Internet address is www.elpolloloco.com. The contents of our Internet website are not part of this annual report, and are not incorporated by reference. Our Internet address is provided as an inactive textual reference only.

The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov.

&#160;

&#160;

