 Item 1. &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Business. 

Living 3D is a globally integrated enterprise that targets intersection of 3D Technology and effective business. The Company specializes in the design, development, production, sale and marketing of "auto stereoscopic 3D" technology, or Auto 3D products. The products we market are based on "auto stereoscopic 3D" technology, or Auto 3D which means that viewers are not required to wear 3D glasses in order to experience the 3D effects of the screen, and instant switching between two dimensional, or 2D, and 3D viewing is enabled. We believe that this gives us a competitive advantage over other suppliers of 3D products requiring the use of a visor or glasses in order to experience a 3D effect.

The Company also provides technical and support services of 3D in software development, contents production and hardware configuration to a wide range of industries, including entertainment, education, consumer electronics, medical diagnosis, scientific research and, in particular, media and advertising. The Company aims at customizing product requirements and specifications in order to enhance the power of product displays in business advertising and special operational environments.

Through innovative and reliable provision of products and services as well as collaboration with other strategic partners, the Company is embarking on the following new strategic directions:

&#183;

Enabling enterprises to fully exploit the power and capacity of 3D technology;

&#183;

Satisfying the full range of media display in business advertising and business operation;

&#183;

Enabling a truly integrated solution for 3D applications and powerful display specially customized for business requirements and operations; and

&#183;

Developing and delivering a comprehensive low cost media content development and productivity environment.

We market our 3D technologies and products under our Living 3D brand in the PRC.

With the change in the Company's control in December 2015, &#160; the Company redefined its business from 3D technology development to computer software development with major operations in Hong Kong and Mainland China. The Company focuses on the research and development of ecommerce platform, mobile game and virtual reality application. Our ecommerce platform seeks to integrate web application with product manufacturing which will increase the productivity and efficiency of the operation. Along with the ever increasing usage of the internet, our O2O (O2O stands for "online to offline." It's a term used to describe a variety of ecommerce services that provide online information, services, or discounts to consumers that enhance their offline shopping experiences.) ecommerce platform is expected to bring in more business opportunities to the manufacturer.

Corporate History

Concrete Casting was incorporated on October 28, 1987 in the state of Nevada under the name Staco Incorporated. It was organized for the purpose of conducting business as a transfer agent. This business was unsuccessful as a transfer agent and became inactive. The business remained inactive until November 30, 2001, when it acquired certain assets from Cordell Henrie, a sole proprietor doing business as "Concrete Casting" and he became its president. Staco Incorporated changed its name to Concrete Casting Incorporated on January 17, 2002. The assets acquired included drawings, plans and concepts regarding the design of replicas of antiquities to be cast in concrete and marketed to the U.S. landscaping market. From such point through December 31, 2007, Concrete Casting focused on concrete products though its emphasis changed from replicas of antiquities to construction applications, such as casted window wells and water features for landscaping use. Mr. Henrie eventually was no longer able to devote the time necessary to Concrete Casting's product development and he resigned as an officer and a director as of December 31, 2007. Because Concrete Casting's development in the concrete casting business was not sufficiently mature to make it commercially viable, the decision was made to shut down development of concrete products and discontinue those operations.

In 2008, Concrete Casting hired Kevin J. Asher as its new president to locate and acquire new business opportunities. At such time, Concrete Casting was a shell company with nominal assets whose sole business was to identify, evaluate and investigate various companies with the intent to effect a reverse merger transaction under which it would acquire a target company with an operating business to continue the acquired company's business as a publicly-held entity. On July 1, 2010, Concrete Casting changed its name to "AirWare International Corp." and on September 27, 2011, AirWare International changed its name to "Living 3D Holdings, Inc."

&#160;

On December 8, 2011, certain of the prior shareholders of Living 3D Holdings, Inc. (formerly AirWare International Corp. and formerly Concrete Casting Incorporated), a Nevada corporation and a publicly held and traded company (the "Company"), who were the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company (the "Selling Shareholders") and Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong, June Mon Yon, Chang Li, Kin Wah Ngai and Lin Su (each, a "Purchaser" and collectively, the "Purchasers"), entered into a stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"). Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Purchasers purchased from the Selling Shareholders an aggregate of 3,627,426 of the shares (the "Purchase Shares") of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company owned by the Selling Shareholders on December 8, 2011 (the "Closing Date"), for an aggregate consideration of $385,000 (the "Stock Purchase").

Also on the Closing Date, the Company, Living 3D Holdings, Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation and a privately held company ("L3D-BVI"), and all of the shareholders of L3D-BVI (the "L3D-BVI Shareholders") entered into a share acquisition and exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement"). Under the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, the Company acquired from the L3D-BVI Shareholders all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of L3D-BVI (the "L3D-BVI Shares"), making L3D-BVI a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and, in exchange for all of the L3D-BVI Shares (the "Share Exchange"), the Company issued to the L3D-BVI Shareholders an aggregate of 62,590,880 shares (the "Exchange Shares") of its common stock. L3D-BVI was incorporated on June 23, 2008 under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and was, at the time of the Stock Purchase and Share Exchange, a privately held company, while the Company was a publicly held and traded company on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "CCSG."

Upon the completion of the Stock Purchase and the Share Exchange, our business became that of L3D-BVI, our wholly-owned subsidiary. As prior to the Stock Purchase and the Share Exchange, the Company had no operating activities, the financial statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis reflect the activity of L3D-BVI for all periods presented. Upon the closing of the Stock Purchase and the Share Exchange, the shareholders of the Company retained an aggregate of 3,485,174 shares of common stock and the former L3D-BVI Shareholders acquired an aggregate of 66,218,306 shares of common stock, for a total of 69,703,480 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Accordingly, the former L3D-BVI Shareholders owned approximately 95% of the Company's total issued and outstanding common stock. The foregoing descriptions of the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement and the Share Exchange Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the provisions of such documents included as exhibits in our filings with the SEC.

On November 30, 2015, Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong, who was the holder of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Company ("Wong"), and Man Wah Stephen Yip ("Yip") entered into a stock purchase agreement (the "Wong-Yip Stock Purchase Agreement"). Under the terms of the Wong-Yip Stock Purchase Agreement, Yip purchased from Wong an aggregate of 37,883,841 of the shares (the "Wong-Yip Purchase Shares") of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company owned by Wong, for a nominal consideration of $100.

By a separate Stock Purchase Agreement dated November 30, 2015, the Company had disposed of all of its subsidiary companies, namely, Living 3D Holdings, Limited, Living 3D International (HK) Limited, Colombia College Hollywood International Limited and Living 3D Technology Group Limited to Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong at a nominal consideration of $100. The disposal was effective as of October 1, 2015.

The terms the "Company," "we," "us," or "our" refer to Living 3D Holdings, Inc., a Nevada corporation, (formerly known as AirWare International Corp. and formerly known as Concrete Casting Incorporated).

Recent Developments

On June 18, 2013, Living 3D (Hong Kong) Limited ("L3D-HK") entered into an agreement with China 3D Industrial Park Company Limited, a Chinese corporation ("China 3D"), and Tianjin 3D Technology Company Limited, a Chinese corporation ("Tianjin 3D"), to form a joint venture company, 3D Science &#38; Cultural Products International Exchange Center. The principal activities of the joint venture company were to be the provision of a platform for the exhibition and trading of 3D products and the transfer of 3D technology.

The total capital of 3D Science &#38; Cultural Products International Exchange Center was RMB 10,000,000 (approximately US $1.6 million). L3D-HK and China 3D each committed to contribute RMB 4,500,000 (approximately US $0.7 million) of such amount and each owned 45% of the joint venture. L3D-HK and China 3D made their respective capital contributions as follows: RMB 1,500,000 (approximately US $0.24 million) on or before July 31, 2013; RMB 1,500,000 (approximately US $0.24 million) on or before December 31, 2013; and RMB 1,500,000 (approximately US $0.24 million) on or before May 31, 2014. L3D-HK and China 3D had made their capital contribution on August 30, 2013 and August 1, 2013, respectively. Tianjin 3D contributed certain assets valued at RMB 1,000,000 (approximately US $0.16 million) for its equity interest of 10% in the joint venture.

Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong, the Company's former CEO, former director and former principal shareholder, was also one of two directors of China 3D and through his affiliates owned a 50% interest in China 3D. Chang Li, the Company's former Chief Technology Officer and a former director, was the second director of China 3D. Additionally, Chang Li was the sole director and shareholder of Tianjin 3D, which also owned a 50% interest in China 3D.

By a Sale and Purchase Agreement dated June 26, 2014, L3D-HK had sold its 45% of 3D Science &#38; Cultural Products International Exchange Center to Excellent Plus Group Limited, an independent third party, for a consideration of US$250,000, effective on April 1, 2014. The consideration of US$250,000 was satisfied by the forgiveness of debt of the same amount due to Kingdom Industry Group Inc.

By a Stock Purchase Agreement dated November 30, 2015, the Company had sold all its interests in Living 3D Holdings, Limited to Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong, our former CEO, former director and former principal shareholder, for a nominal consideration of US$100, effective on October 1, 2015.

Sourcing and Manufacturing

We have contracted with third party manufacturers for the production of the displays we have sold to date. Such manufacturers produced these products using OEM parts under specifications and informal licenses granted by certain of our former directors and principal shareholder. These former directors and principal shareholder do not receive any compensation for these licenses. See Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." We do not have any contracts with our third party manufacturers.

Marketing, Distribution and Sales

We have conducted limited marketing efforts to date. We have made all of our sales to date in the PRC to government and research entities and educational institutions. We have sold large LED displays (approximately three by three meters), 3D TV's and 3D panels. We do not have any personnel dedicated to marketing, distribution and sales, nor do we have any agreements in place related to those functions. To date, certain of our former directors and principal shareholder have carried out these functions, but their efforts have been limited to the sale of a small number of products. We intend to continue to utilize their services as necessary as we seek to add additional personnel to assist in our marketing and sales functions. In the future, given sufficient capital, we intend to market the products we sell through our participation in industry trade shows and conferences and through public relations and event sponsorships.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Principal Suppliers

We have relied, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties to manufacture products for us to market and sell. Although we may use our current manufacturers for future product orders we obtain, we do not have any obligation to use such manufacturers nor do we have any future product orders pending. Given our current level of operations, we have not had problems obtaining sufficient supplies of raw materials or component parts. We do not have multiple sources of supply for these items, but believe there are readily available alternative sources at acceptable prices.

Inventory, Operating Capital and Seasonality

We have no inventory because we have our products manufactured only after we receive orders. In the future, we may seek to store products pending sale at the manufacturing facilities that produced such products, if feasible. We do not maintain any warehouse facility. Our business is too new to be able to assess whether seasonality could be a material factor in our business. We do not require material amounts of operating capital because we are in the development stage.

Dependence on Major Customers

We have no major customers at this point.

Competition

The market for 3D hardware technology is still in its early stages. Nonetheless, there are already many established and early stage companies that address the 3D display market in one way or another, including makers of 3D televisions and mobile phones, such as Panasonic Corporation, Samsung Electronics Corporation, Ltd., Sony Corporation and X6D Limited. For the most part, these companies do not use Auto 3D technology, and thus do not compete directly with the products we seek to market. However, at this time, we consider them to be competitors generally in the effort to market 3D monitor solutions to end-user businesses. Nearly all of these companies have significantly greater human and economic resources than we do and there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete with them for market share.

Intellectual Property

We rely on certain intellectual property rights held by Jimmy Kent-Lam Wong, who is a former director and principal shareholder, for the manufacture of the 3D products we have marketed and sold to date. He has licensed these rights on an informal, as needed basis, to third party manufacturers and to us to enable us to make the sales we have made to date. Such intellectual property consists principally of trade secrets and know-how. The owner of the intellectual property has not explored whether it may be protectable by patents. We have not paid any compensation to the license holder for these licenses. These licenses have been verbal and the license holder is under no obligation to continue to offer us such licenses in the future, nor have the licenses included any terms other than the implied right to use the intellectual property to manufacture the products we have sold to date. For example, the verbal licenses have not included any indemnification provision to protect us if the products infringe on any third-party intellectual property rights, or any representations or warranties with regard to non-infringement or other matters. Accordingly, we may have liability for infringement or similar matters that arise with respect to the products we have sold to date. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to obtain future licenses on terms acceptable to us, or on any terms, or to successfully develop or contract for the development of new designs to enable us to manufacture new products for sale in the future.

Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets

We own the internally developed trademarks and copyrights used in connection with the marketing, distribution and sale of products we have sold to date. However, we have not registered any of these trademarks or copyrights and there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect such trademarks and copyrights from infringement or third party claims, if any. We have not filed for any patents on our products or technologies.

&#160;

We relied on the trade secrets and know-how of one of our former directors and former principal shareholder to produce the products we have sold in the past before the change in control of the Company in December 2015. We have not entered into confidentiality or invention assignment or license agreements with such party. Nor have we or such party entered into similar agreements with our third party manufacturers. We do, however, generally divide the steps for production of our products among different manufacturers according to their expertise and specialization and to protect our trade secrets. Moreover, no assurance can be given that third parties will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how.

Research and Development

We have not engaged in research and development activities since our inception.

Governmental Regulation

The market for 3D technology is affected by a wide range of U.S. and international regulations, including regulations related to taxation and import-export controls, which could negatively impact the market for the devices we sell or decrease potential profits to the Company.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws; Environmental Matters

We are not aware of any material costs or impacts on our business related to compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws regarding the products we intend to market and sell.

Insurance

We do not carry any kind of product liability or other business insurance.

Legal and Administrative Proceedings

We are not a party to any material legal or administrative proceedings, and we are not aware of any threatened material legal or administrative proceedings against us.

Facilities

We had an office in the United States at 109 Lafayette Street, Suite 802, New York, New York 10013. &#160; Our office in Hong Kong was located at Room 512, 5/F., Beverly Commercial Center, No. 87-105 Chatham Road South, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. With the change in control in December 2015, our office in Hong Kong had been moved to Room S, 2/F, Block D East Sun Industrial Center, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong and we no longer maintain our former office in the United States since then. We have no other facilities.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had no full-time employees.

Corporate Information

The Company's principal executive office is located at Room S, 2/F, Block D East Sun Industrial Center, 16 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong . 

