 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

This business description should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this annual report, which are incorporated herein by this reference. 

General 

We are a diversified financial services company engaged in independent brokerage and advisory services, investment banking, equity research, institutional sales and trading, asset management services, wholesale life insurance brokerage and trust services through our principal subsidiaries, Securities America, Inc. (collectively with related companies, &#8220;Securities America&#8221;), Triad Advisors, Inc. (&#8220;Triad&#8221;), Securities Service Network, Inc. (&#8220;SSN&#8221;), Investacorp, Inc. (collectively with related companies, &#8220;Investacorp&#8221;), KMS Financial Services, Inc. (&#8220;KMS&#8221;), Ladenburg Thalmann &#38; Co. Inc. (&#8220;Ladenburg&#8221;), Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management Inc. (&#8220;LTAM&#8221;), Highland Capital Brokerage, Inc. (&#8220;Highland&#8221;), and Premier Trust, Inc. (&#8220;Premier Trust&#8221;). We acquired Highland and KMS in 2014 and we acquired SSN in 2015. We are committed to establishing a significant presence in the financial services industry by meeting the varying investment needs of our clients. 

Through our acquisitions of Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp and KMS, we have established a leadership position in the independent broker-dealer industry. During the past decade, this has been one of the fastest growing segments of the financial services industry. With approximately 4,000 financial advisors located in 50 states, we have become one of the largest independent broker-dealer networks. We believe that we have the opportunity through acquisitions, recruiting and internal growth to continue expanding our market share in this segment over the next several years. Since 2007, our plan has been to marry the more stable and recurring revenue and cash flows of the independent broker-dealer business with Ladenburg&#8217;s traditional investment banking, capital markets, institutional sales and trading and related businesses. 

&#160; 

Ladenburg&#8217;s traditional businesses are generally more volatile and subject to the cycles of the capital markets than our independent broker-dealer subsidiaries, but historically have enjoyed strong operating margins in good market conditions. Our goal has been to build sufficient scale in our independent brokerage business, with the accompanying more steady cash flows it can produce, so regardless of capital market conditions, we as a firm can generate significant operating cash flow to create value for our shareholders. 

The appealing growth profile of the independent brokerage and advisory business has been a key factor in setting our strategic path. The independent brokerage and advisory channel has expanded significantly over the past decade, driven in large part by demographic trends, including the graying of America, the retirement of the baby boomer generation and the expected transfer of retirement assets from 401(k) and group plans to individual retirement accounts. The increasing responsibility of individuals to plan for their own retirement has created demand for the financial advice provided by financial advisors in the independent channel, who are not tied to a particular firm&#8217;s proprietary products. These developments have been occurring against a backdrop of the steady migration of client assets and advisors from the wirehouse, insurance and bank channels to the independent channel. 

We operate each of our independent broker-dealers separately under their own management teams in a network model, which reflects our recognition that each firm has its own unique culture and strengths. We believe this is an important part of the glue that helps bind the advisors to the firm. At the same time, we have taken advantage of the scale we have created across the multiple firms by spreading costs in areas that are not directly visible to the advisors and their clients, such as technology, accounting, insurance, procurement and other back office functions. 

While we keep each firm separate, we seek to share intellectual capital and best practices among the firms. For instance, we offer Securities America&#8217;s industry recognized Next Level practice development tools to our other advisors. Similarly, the advisors in our independent brokerage and advisory services segment have other resources to enhance their practices, including access to Ladenburg&#8217;s proprietary research, investment banking and capital markets services, fixed income trading and syndicate products, Premier Trust&#8217;s trust services, Highland&#8217;s insurance solutions and LTAM&#8217;s wealth management solutions. 

Ladenburg is a full service broker-dealer that has been a member of the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) since 1879. It provides its services principally for middle market and emerging growth companies and high net worth individuals through a coordinated effort among corporate finance, capital markets, asset management, brokerage and trading professionals. 

LTAM is a registered investment advisor. LTAM offers various asset management products utilized by Ladenburg's and Premier Trust's clients, as well as clients of our independent financial advisors. 

Highland is a leading independent insurance brokerage that delivers life insurance, fixed and equity indexed annuities and long-term care solutions to investment and insurance providers. Highland provides specialized point-of-sale support along with advanced marketing and estate and business planning techniques, delivering customized insurance solutions to both institutional clients and independent producers. 

Premier Trust, a Nevada trust company, provides trust administration of personal and retirement accounts, estate and financial planning, wealth management and custody services. We acquired Premier Trust in September 2010 to provide our network of independent financial advisors with access to a broad array of trust services. This was another important strategic step in our efforts to meaningfully differentiate our independent broker-dealer platform by the breadth of the products and services we offer to our advisors. 

Each of Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp, KMS and Ladenburg is subject to regulation by, among others, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Securities America is also subject to regulation by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the National Futures Association. Highland is subject to regulation by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments. Premier Trust is subject to regulation by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry Financial Institutions Division. 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Florida in February 1996. 

Available Information 

Our securities filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and reports filed by our officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and any amendments to those filings, are available, free of charge, on our website, www.ladenburg.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC. We do not intend for information contained in our website, or those of our subsidiaries, to be a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. In February 2004, our board of directors adopted a code of ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees as well as those of our subsidiaries. We will provide to any person, without charge, a copy of our code of ethics. Requests for copies of our code of ethics should be sent in writing to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc., 4400 Biscayne Blvd., 12 th &#32;Floor, Miami, FL 33137, Attn: Secretary. Our code of ethics is also available, free of charge, on our website. Any amendments to or waivers from a provision of this code of ethics will be posted on our website. 

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors 

This annual report on Form 10-K includes certain &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management&#8217;s current expectations or beliefs and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the views expressed in the forward-looking statements contained in this report due to changes in economic, business, competitive, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operation of our businesses. For more detailed information about these factors, and risk factors about our operations, see Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; and Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition &#8212; Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; below. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or otherwise, except as required by law. 

Business Segments 

We have three operating segments: (i) the independent brokerage and advisory services segment, (ii) the Ladenburg segment and (iii) the insurance brokerage segment. Prior to our acquisition of Highland, we had two operating segments. The independent brokerage and advisory services segment includes the broker-dealer and investment advisory services provided by our independent broker-dealer subsidiaries to their independent contractor financial advisors and the wealth management services provided by Premier Trust. The Ladenburg segment includes the investment banking, sales and trading and asset management services and investment activities conducted by Ladenburg and LTAM. 

The insurance brokerage segment includes the wholesale insurance brokerage activities provided by Highland, which delivers life insurance, fixed and equity indexed annuities and long- term care solutions to investment and insurance providers. See Note 19, "Segment Information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding revenue, income (loss) before income taxes, EBITDA, as adjusted, identifiable assets, depreciation and amortization, interest, capital expenditures, and non-cash compensation for our three operating segments. 

Independent Brokerage and Advisory Services Segment 

Overview 

Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp and KMS are independent broker-dealers and registered investment advisors, whose independent contractor financial advisors offer securities brokerage and advisory services to their clients, which may include packaged products such as mutual funds, variable annuities and advisor managed accounts. Revenues generated by our independent brokerage and advisory services segment represented approximately 90%, 89% and 91% of our total revenues for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

We believe that the financial services industry is experiencing an increase in the percentage of retail client assets held at independent broker-dealers and registered investment advisors as the market share of retail assets declines at large national firms. New independent financial advisors require client and back office support services and access to technology and often affiliate with an independent broker-dealer. We expect this trend to continue and possibly accelerate in the future. Also, financial advisors at banks and credit unions often affiliate with independent broker-dealers. Securities America&#8217;s Financial Institutions Division delivers a diverse selection of investment and insurance products, detailed, hands-on professional development, and a fully integrated technology platform customized to meet the unique reporting needs of financial advisors located within banks and credit unions. 

A financial advisor who becomes affiliated with one of our independent broker-dealers generally establishes his or her own office and is solely responsible for the payment of all expenses associated with the operation of the branch office (including rent, utilities, furniture, equipment, quotation systems, employee wages and benefits and general office supplies). The size of each branch office is typically between 1 and 15 advisors, but may be substantially larger. All of a branch&#8217;s revenues from securities brokerage transactions and from advisory services conducted through our broker-dealers accrue to our broker-dealers. Because an independent financial advisor bears the responsibility for his or her operating expenses, the financial advisor receives a significant percentage of the commissions or advisory fees he or she generates, typically at least 80%. This compares with a payout rate of approximately 30% to 50% to financial advisors working in a traditional wirehouse brokerage setting where the brokerage firm bears substantially all of the sales force costs, including providing employee benefits, office space, sales assistants, telephone service and supplies. The independent brokerage model permits our independent broker-dealer subsidiaries to expand their revenue base and retail distribution network of investment products and services without either the capital expenditures that would be required to open company-owned offices, or the additional administrative and other costs of hiring financial advisors as in-house employees. 

An independent financial advisor must possess a sufficient level of business experience to enable the individual to independently operate his or her own office. Insurance agents, financial planners, accountants and other financial professionals, who already provide financial services to their clients, often affiliate with independent broker-dealers. These professionals then offer financial products and services to their clients through an independent broker-dealer and earn commissions and fees for these transactions and services. These financial advisors have the ability to structure their own practices and to focus in different areas of the investment business, subject to supervisory procedures as well as compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. 

Many independent financial advisors provide financial planning services to their clients, wherein the financial advisor evaluates a client&#8217;s financial needs and objectives, develops a detailed plan, and then implements the plan with the client&#8217;s approval. When the implementation of such objectives involves the purchase or sale of securities (including the placement of assets within a managed account) such transactions may be effected through a broker-dealer, for which such broker-dealer earns either a commission or a fee. Representatives may be permitted to conduct other approved businesses unrelated to their brokerage or advisory activities, such as offering fixed insurance products and accounting, estate planning and tax services, among others. 

Each financial advisor is required to obtain and maintain in good standing each license required by the SEC and FINRA to conduct the type of securities or advisory business in which he or she engages, and to register in the various states in which he or she has customers. 

Each of our independent broker-dealers is responsible for supervising all of its financial advisors wherever they are located. We can incur substantial liability from improper actions of any of these financial advisors. See Item 1.A - Risk Factors - Risks Relating to our Business. 

Many of our independent financial advisors are also authorized agents of insurance companies. Our independent broker-dealers process non-registered insurance business through subsidiaries or sister companies that are licensed insurance brokers, as well as through licensed third-party insurance brokers. We are not an insurance company, and we retain no insurance risk related to insurance or annuity products. 

Our independent financial advisors also may provide consultation and financial planning services including: estate planning, retirement and financial goal planning, educational funding, asset allocation and insurance needs analysis, as well as general analysis and planning. These financial advisors may prepare a written financial plan based upon the client's stated goals, needs and investment profile. 

Strategy for our Independent Brokerage and Advisory Services Business 

We focus on increasing our independent broker-dealer networks of financial advisors, revenues and client assets as described below: 

&#8226; 

Provide our advisors with a differentiated independent platform. We believe we have built a meaningfully differentiated platform by offering our independent financial advisors the unique and valued benefits of access to Ladenburg&#8217;s wealth management division, capital markets products, investment banking services, proprietary equity research and fixed income trading desk, Highland's insurance solutions and Premier Trust's trust services and planning capabilities. 

&#8226; 

Provide technological solutions to independent financial advisors and home-office employees. We believe that it is imperative that our independent broker-dealers possess state-of-the-art technology so their employees and independent financial advisors can effectively transact, facilitate, measure and record business activity in a timely, accurate and efficient manner. By continuing our commitment to provide a highly capable technology platform to process business, we believe our independent broker-dealers can achieve economies of scale and potentially reduce the need to hire additional back-office personnel. 

&#8226; 

Assist financial advisors to expand their business. Our independent broker-dealers are aligned with their financial advisors in seeking to increase their revenues and improve efficiency. Each of our broker-dealers undertakes initiatives to assist their financial advisors with client recruitment, education, compliance and product support. Our practice management programs accelerate our advisors' efforts to grow their businesses by providing customized coaching and consulting services, study groups and conferences, educational workshops, publications and web resources and other productivity tools. Our independent broker-dealers also focus on improving back-office support to allow financial advisors more time to focus on serving their clients, rather than attending to administrative matters. 

&#8226; 

Build recurring revenue. We have recognized the trend toward increased investment advisory business and are focused on providing fee-based investment advisory services, which may better suit certain clients. While these fee-based accounts generate substantially lower first year revenue than accounts invested in most commission-based products, the recurring nature of these fees provides a platform that generates recurring revenue. 

&#8226; 

Recruit experienced financial professionals. Each of our independent broker-dealers actively recruits experienced financial professionals. These efforts are supported by advertising, targeted direct mail and outbound telemarketing. Our independent broker-dealers&#8217; recruitment efforts are enhanced by their ability to serve a variety of independent advisor models, including independent financial advisors, registered investment advisors and independent registered investment advisors. 

&#8226; 

Acquire other independent brokerage firms. We also may pursue the acquisition of other independent brokerage firms and groups of financial advisors. Our ability to realize growth through acquisitions depends, among other things, on the availability of suitable candidates and our ability to successfully negotiate favorable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any such acquisitions. Further, the costs associated with the integration of new businesses and personnel may be greater than anticipated. 

Brokerage Business 

Each of our independent broker-dealers provides full support services to its financial advisors, including: access to stock, bond and options execution; products such as insurance, mutual funds, unit trusts and investment advisory programs; and research, compliance, supervision, accounting and related services. 

While an increasing number of clients are electing asset-based advisory fee platforms rather than the traditional commission schedule, our independent broker-dealers primarily derive their revenue from commissions charged on variable annuity, mutual fund, equity and fixed income transactions. 

Asset Management Business 

Our independent broker-dealers offer various accounts, some of which are managed by our financial advisors, and others that are managed by third parties. The advisor managed accounts offer various account structures, including fee-based and &#8220;wrap fee&#8221; accounts. For financial advisors who prefer not to act as portfolio managers, third party management options are available. These options employ managers who select diversified, fee-based asset management investment portfolios based on a client&#8217;s needs and risk profile. The types of portfolios may include separately managed portfolios, multi-managed accounts, and mutual fund and exchange-traded fund (&#8220;ETF&#8221;) model portfolios. These portfolios may also include portfolio analytics, performance reporting and position-specific reporting. 

Premier Trust 

Founded in 2001, Premier Trust is a Nevada-chartered trust company headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada, with more than $1.0 billion in assets under administration at December 31, 2015. Premier Trust provides trust administration of personal and retirement accounts, estate and financial planning, wealth management and custody services. Working in combination with a client&#8217;s legal and other professional advisors, Premier Trust&#8217;s professionals assist with every aspect of planning, including income and estate taxes, retirement, succession of the family business, transferring assets to future generations and asset protection. 

Ladenburg Segment 

Ladenburg is a full-service broker-dealer that provides investment banking, sales and trading and equity research to its corporate and institutional clients and high net-worth individuals. 

Investment Banking Activities 

Ladenburg's investment banking professionals provide corporate finance and strategic and financial advisory services to public and private companies, primarily those companies with market capitalizations below $500 million, which we refer to as middle-market companies. Ladenburg provides these middle-market companies with capital raising and strategic advisory services throughout their growth cycles. Ladenburg offers its clients a high level of attention from senior personnel and has designed its organizational structure so that the investment bankers who are responsible for securing and maintaining client relationships also actively participate in providing all related transaction execution services to those clients. Ladenburg's 17 investment banking professionals serve clients nationwide and worldwide. 

Corporate Finance 

Ladenburg's corporate finance group provides capital origination services primarily to middle-market companies. Ladenburg's investment bankers develop financing strategies, transaction structures and financing instruments for its corporate clients. Ladenburg offers a broad range of financing options including underwritten public offerings, registered direct offerings, at-the-market offerings, PIPEs (private investment in public equity) and other private placements. Ladenburg's ability to effectively structure offerings and to identify likely buyers of such offerings makes it a valuable advisor to small and middle-market companies. Although the capital markets are not consistently favorable, we expect that Ladenburg will participate in follow-on offerings, registered direct offerings, PIPEs and other private placements to generate corporate finance revenues. We believe there is a significant opportunity for continued growth in the registered direct and PIPEs areas given issuers&#8217; desire to identify and pursue faster and less costly financing alternatives to traditional follow-on offerings and institutional investors&#8217; continuing interest in these financing transactions. 

Further, we believe the establishment of relationships with issuers through our capital raising efforts will lead to additional investment banking services, including further capital raising, and other advisory services. In 2015, we participated in 70 underwritten offerings that raised an aggregate of approximately $9.1 billion. In 2015, Ladenburg placed 18 registered direct and PIPE offerings, which raised an aggregate of approximately $310 million for clients in the health-care, biotechnology, energy and other industries. 

Ladenburg seeks to capitalize on its distribution network by focusing on yield-oriented equities, which have been attractive to both institutional and retail investors. The yield-oriented equity business has developed in recent years in response to the low interest rate environment. 

Our bankers focus primarily on three specific areas: mortgage and equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), business development companies (BDCs) and master limited partnerships (MLPs). Ladenburg has become a leader in syndicating these products to institutional investors as well as other retail and independent firms. Since 2013, Ladenburg has participated as a manager in 158 offerings of these products, which raised over $25.7 billion. 

Similarly, Ladenburg also has dedicated investment bankers focused on health-care and biotechnology companies, as well as the energy, utilities and technology sectors. From 2013 through 2015, Ladenburg participated as a manager in 92 offerings, which raised over $4.3 billion in the health-care and biotechnology sectors. 

Strategic and Financial Advisory Services 

Ladenburg advises clients on a wide range of strategic and financial issues. When Ladenburg advises a company in the potential acquisition of another company, business or assets, its services include evaluating potential acquisition targets, providing valuation analyses, evaluating and proposing financial and strategic alternatives and rendering, if appropriate, fairness opinions. Ladenburg also may provide advice regarding the timing, structure, financing and pricing of a proposed acquisition and may assist in negotiating and closing the acquisition. Ladenburg's buy-side and sell-side mandates often require the firm to leverage its extensive relationships and capital markets expertise. These mandates generally have a limited duration so Ladenburg seeks to develop new engagements from existing and prior clients, as well as their legal and other advisors. 

Ladenburg has extensive expertise in providing fairness opinions that often are necessary or requested in a variety of situations, including mergers, acquisitions, restructurings, financings and privatizations. Ladenburg provides fairness opinions and analyses to boards of directors, independent committees of boards of directors and shareholders. The firm also provides independent, third-party advice in connection with mergers, acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and restructurings, going-private transactions and certain other market activities. 

Sales and Trading 

Ladenburg&#8217;s private client services and institutional sales departments charge commissions to their individual and institutional clients for executing securities trading orders. 

Ladenburg&#8217;s sales and trading operation distributes our equity research product and communicates our proprietary investment recommendations to our growing base of institutional investors. Also, our sales and trading staff executes equity trades on behalf of our clients and sells the securities of companies for which we act as an underwriter. 

Ladenburg's fixed income trading desk, Ladenburg Fixed Income (LFIX), works with advisors at our broker-dealer subsidiaries to develop fixed income solutions for clients based on individualized client needs. We believe LFIX strengthens the value proposition of our broker-dealer platform and is a natural complement to Ladenburg&#8217;s efforts in yield-oriented equities because many of the same companies to which Ladenburg provides investment banking services are also potential fixed income issuers. 

We have established a broad institutional client base through a consistent focus on the investment and trading objectives of our clients. Our sales and trading professionals work closely with our equity research staff to provide insight and differentiated investment advice to institutional clients nationwide. 

We believe that our equity research features proprietary themes and actionable ideas about industries and companies that are not widely evaluated by many other investment banks that do not have our middle-market emphasis. 

In recent years, many investment banks have reduced equity research coverage and market making activities for companies with market capitalizations below certain thresholds. However, we continue to commit research and sales and trading resources to smaller-capitalization companies with the belief that institutional investors will value such specialized knowledge and service. 

Our sales and trading personnel are also central to our ability to market equity offerings and provide after-market support. Our equity capital markets group manages the syndication, marketing, execution and distribution of equity offerings. Our syndicate activities include managing the marketing and order-taking process for underwritten transactions and conducting after-market stabilization and initial market making. Our syndicate staff is also responsible for developing and maintaining relationships with the syndicate departments of other investment banks. 

Research Services 

We believe that Ladenburg&#8217;s research department takes a fresh, critical approach to analyzing primary sources and developing proprietary research. Many individuals, institutions, portfolio managers and hedge fund managers, on all levels, have been neglected by brokerage firms that ignore the demand for unbiased research for small and mid-cap companies. Ladenburg provides a branded in-depth research product. Ladenburg&#8217;s research department focuses on investigating investment opportunities by utilizing fundamental, technical and quantitative methods to conduct in-depth analysis. Currently, our research department provides research coverage on approximately 255 companies and closed-end funds, specializing in small- to mid-cap companies in the power and electric utilities, energy exploration and production, sustainable infrastructure, biotechnology, personalized medicine, medical devices, specialty pharmaceutical, healthcare services, medical technology and internet and software services industries; MLPs, BDCs and mortgage and equity REITs; and other companies on a special situations basis. Ladenburg&#8217;s research coverage may expand to additional sectors in the future. Ladenburg provides its research on a fee basis to certain institutional accounts and makes it available to the financial advisors at all of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. 

Our research department: 

&#8226; 

reviews and analyzes general market conditions and industry groups; 

&#8226; 

issues written reports on companies; 

&#8226; 

furnishes information to retail and institutional customers; and 

&#8226; 

responds to inquiries from customers and account executives. 

Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management 

LTAM is a registered investment advisor offering various asset management products utilized by Ladenburg clients, as well as clients of our independent broker-dealers' financial advisors. LTAM serves as our internal wealth management group and plays an important role in supporting the growth of the advisory businesses at our independent firms. At December 31, 2015, LTAM had approximately $2.1 billion of assets under management and more than 15,000 client accounts. 

Ladenburg Asset Management Program 

The Ladenburg Asset Management Program ("LAMP") provides centralized management of mutual fund and exchange-traded fund portfolios based on asset allocation models. Features of the program include active rebalancing at the asset class and security level, low minimum account size, risk analysis, customized investment policy statements and comprehensive performance reporting. 

Investment Consulting Services 

LTAM&#8217;s Investment Consulting Services (&#8220;ICS&#8221;) provides clients with access to professional money managers who are usually available only to large institutions. Whether the client requires a complete asset allocation strategy or an investment manager for a single asset class, ICS provides access to money managers across the spectrum of major asset classes, and each of our managers has been thoroughly examined for inclusion in the ICS program. Once a manager has been added to the platform, it is regularly reviewed in order to ensure that it represents a suitable solution. Through ICS, LTAM services high net worth clients and institutions, such as universities, foundations and hospitals. 

Fund Management 

Alternative Strategies Fund 

LTAM has created a closed-end interval fund, the Alternative Strategies Fund, which includes alternative investment products and allows clients to access these investments with low minimums and without having to be accredited investors. LTAM&#8217;s mutual fund is comprised of a portfolio of alternative investments in more than ten asset classes, including, among others, REITs, MLPs, and BDCs. 

Ladenburg Funds 

LTAM is the investment adviser to five funds collectively called the Ladenburg Funds. The five Ladenburg Funds are the Ladenburg Income Fund, the Ladenburg Income &#38; Growth Fund, the Ladenburg Growth &#38; Income Fund, the Ladenburg Growth Fund, and the Ladenburg Aggressive Growth Fund. Each of the Ladenburg Funds is an open end fund of funds that primarily invests in a combination of equity, fixed income and alternative strategy exchange-traded funds ("ETFs"), exchange-traded notes (&#8220;ETNs&#8221;) and mutual funds. The Ladenburg Funds employ the same investment strategies and features as the ones LTAM employs in managing separate client accounts in LAMP. 

Private Investment Management 

The Private Investment Management program allows internal managers to provide portfolio services to clients on a discretionary basis with specific styles of investing for an annual asset-based fee. 

Retirement Plan Sponsor Services 

LTAM provides investment consulting services to sponsors of retirement plans, such as 401(k) plans. These services include: identifying mutual funds and ETF&#8217;s for the plan sponsor&#8217;s review and final selection based on the selection criteria stated in the plan&#8217;s investment policy statement; assisting in the planning of, and participating in, enrollment and communication meetings; and providing to the plan sponsor quarterly performance reports of the funds for the purpose of meeting the plan fiduciary&#8217;s obligation to monitor plan assets. Certain plan participants also may engage LTAM to manage their plan assets on a discretionary basis. 

Alternative Investments 

LTAM provides high net worth clients and institutional investors the opportunity to invest in proprietary and third party alternative investments. These include, but are not limited to, hedge funds, funds of funds, private equity, venture capital and real estate. 

Ladenburg Architect Program 

LTAM provides its customers with the Ladenburg Architect Program as a non-discretionary, fee-based, advisory account that allows customers to maintain control over the management of the account and select from a diverse group of securities. 

Third-Party Advisory Services 

Together with its affiliates, LTAM may also provide advisory services, ranging from proprietary investment solutions to access to professional money managers for the clients of the registered investment advisors of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. 

Investment Activities 

Ladenburg may, from time to time, seek to realize investment gains by purchasing, selling and holding securities for its own account, including through LFIX. Ladenburg may also from time to time engage for its own account in the arbitrage of securities. We are required to commit the capital necessary for use in these investment activities. The amount of capital committed at any particular time will vary according to market, economic and financial factors, including the other aspects of our business. Also, Ladenburg regularly receives shares or warrants that entitle it to purchase securities of the corporate issuers for which it raises capital or provides advisory services. 

Administration, Operations, Securities Transactions Processing and Customer Accounts 

Our broker-dealer subsidiaries do not hold funds or securities for their customers. Instead, each of Ladenburg, Triad and Investacorp use the services of National Financial Services LLC (&#8220;NFS&#8221;), a Fidelity Investments&#174; company, as its clearing agent on a fully disclosed basis. 

Each of Securities America and SSN use the services of NFS and Pershing LLC, a subsidiary of the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as its clearing agent on a fully disclosed basis. KMS uses the services of Pershing as its clearing agent on a fully disclosed basis. Ladenburg also uses the services of Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc. as its clearing agent on a fully disclosed basis. The clearing agents process all securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. SIPC coverage protects client accounts up to $500,000 per customer, including up to $250,000 for cash. Each of NFS, Pershing and Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc. also maintains excess securities bonds, &#8220;Excess SIPC,&#8221; providing additional protection. Clearing agent services include billing, credit control, and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. The clearing agent provides operational support necessary to process, record and maintain securities transactions for the brokerage activities of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. The clearing agent also lends funds to customers of our broker-dealer subsidiaries through the use of margin credit. These loans are made to customers on a secured basis, with the clearing agent maintaining collateral in the form of saleable securities, cash or cash equivalents. We have agreed to indemnify each clearing agent for losses it may incur on these credit arrangements. 

Insurance Brokerage Segment 

Highland operates through a brokerage general agency model that provides brokers, typically either independent life insurance advisors or institutions, support as needed. The independent life insurance advisors or institutions then distribute life insurance products and services directly to individual clients. Highland provides its partners with access to major insurance carriers, advanced planning support, expertise in risk underwriting, back office processing and point of sale support, if needed. Highland generally receives allowances paid by the insurance carrier for facilitating the placement of the product. The amount of the allowance is a percentage of the product premium. Revenue tends to be concentrated in the year that the policy is originated. Historically, revenue in the wholesale life brokerage business is weighted towards the fourth quarter as clients finalize tax-planning decisions at year end. 

&#160; 

Seasonality and Cyclical Factors 

Seasonality generally does not impact our results. Our revenues may be adversely affected by cyclical factors, such as financial market downturns, low interest rates, as well as downturns or recessions in the United States or global economies. These downturns may cause investor concern, which results in fewer investment banking transactions, lower asset values and less investing by institutional and retail investors, thereby reducing our revenues and potential profits. Such conditions might also expose us to the risk of being unable to raise additional capital to offset related significant reductions in revenues. 

Competition 

We encounter intense competition in all aspects of our business and compete directly with many other providers of financial services for clients as well as financial advisors. We compete directly with many national and regional full service financial services firms, other independent broker-dealers, investment advisors, discount brokers, broker-dealer subsidiaries of major commercial bank holding companies, insurance companies and other companies offering financial services in the United States, globally, and through the Internet. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Also, many firms offer discount brokerage services and generally effect transactions at substantially lower commission rates on an &#8220;execution only&#8221; basis, without offering other services such as financial planning, investment recommendations and research. Moreover, there is substantial commission discounting by full-service broker-dealers competing for institutional and retail brokerage business. 

A growing number of brokerage firms offer online trading which has further intensified the competition for retail brokerage customers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries currently do not offer any online trading services to their customers, although they offer online account access so their customers can review their account balances and activity. 

Competition also is increasing from other financial institutions, notably banking institutions, insurance companies and other organizations, which offer customers some of the same services and products presently provided by securities firms. We seek to compete through the quality of our financial advisors and investment bankers, our level of service, the products and services we offer and our expertise in certain areas. 

There is significant competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry. Our ability to compete effectively depends on attracting, retaining and motivating qualified financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. 

Government Regulation 

The securities industry, including our business, is subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA and the MSRB. The principal purpose of these regulations is the protection of customers and the securities markets. The SEC is the federal agency charged with the administration of the federal securities laws. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA. These self-regulatory organizations adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, which govern their members and conduct periodic examinations of member firms&#8217; operations. 

Securities firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in the states in which they are registered. Each of Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp, KMS and Ladenburg is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC. Each such firm is licensed to conduct activities as a broker-dealer in all 50 states. Ladenburg is a member firm of the NYSE. 

The regulations to which broker-dealers are subject cover many aspects of the securities industry, including: 

&#8226; 

sales methods and supervision; 

&#8226; 

trading practices among broker-dealers; 

&#8226; 

use and safekeeping of customers&#8217; funds and securities; 

&#8226; 

capital structure of securities firms; 

&#8226; 

record keeping; 

&#8226; 

conduct of directors, officers and employees; and 

&#8226; 

advertising, including regulations related to telephone solicitation. 

As registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Advisers Act"), our investment advisory subsidiaries are subject to the regulations under both the Advisers Act and certain state securities laws and regulations. Such requirements relate to, among other things: 

&#8226; 

limitations on the ability of investment advisors to charge clients performance-based or non-refundable fees; 

&#8226; 

record-keeping and reporting requirements; 

&#8226; 

disclosure requirements; 

&#8226; 

limitations on principal transactions between an advisor or its affiliates and advisory clients; and 

&#8226; 

general anti-fraud prohibitions. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Additionally, our investment advisory subsidiaries are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;), administered by the Employee Benefits Security Administration (&#8220;EBSA&#8221;) of the U.S. Department of Labor ("DOL"), for accounts that are ERISA-covered pension plans. These plans include defined benefit pension plans and individual account plans, such as 401(k) plans. ERISA imposes certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries (as defined in Section 3(21) of ERISA) and prohibits certain transactions involving ERISA plans and fiduciaries or other service providers to such plans. Failure to comply with the ERISA requirements could result in significant monetary penalties and could severely limit the ability of our investment advisory subsidiaries to act as fiduciaries. The DOL continues to pursue regulations that would significantly expand the scope of who is considered an ERISA fiduciary and what activity constitutes acting as an ERISA fiduciary, while prohibiting certain additional types of transactions conducted by persons who are considered fiduciaries. As proposed, these regulations focus on conflicts of interest related to investment recommendations made by financial advisors or registered investment advisors to clients holding qualified accounts and other types of ERISA clients as well as how financial advisors are able to discuss IRA rollovers. On January 29, 2016, after a public comment period and hearing, the DOL sent proposed regulations to the Office of Management and Budget where they remain confidential until published in the Federal Register. Qualified accounts, specifically IRAs, make up a significant portion of our client assets.We continue to review and analyze the potential impact of the proposed regulations on our clients and prospective clients, as well as the potential impact on our business. We cannot predict how any final regulations may differ from the proposed regulations. 

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC and by self-regulatory bodies and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers.The SEC and the self-regulatory bodies may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers, employees or financial advisors. 

As a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), our financial advisors may in the future become subject to a fiduciary standard of conduct in connection with their broker-dealer activities that is no less stringent than what is currently applied to investment advisers under the Advisers Act. We continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding retirement investing and financial advisors, including proposed rules, regulatory priorities or general discussion around transparency and disclosure in advisor compensation and recruiting, identifying and managing conflicts of interest and enhanced data collection. 

Premier Trust is subject to regulation by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry Financial Institutions Division. 

Highland is subject to regulation by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments. 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#8220;PATRIOT Act&#8221;) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies. Financial institutions subject to the PATRIOT Act generally must have anti-money laundering procedures in place, implement specialized employee training programs, designate an anti-money laundering compliance officer and are audited periodically by an independent party to test the effectiveness of such compliance. We have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulations. 

Regulation regarding privacy and data protection continues to increase worldwide and is generally being driven by the growth of technology and related concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of information. To the extent applicable to us, we must comply with these global, federal, and state information-related laws and regulations, including, for example, those in the United States, such as the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, SEC Regulation S-P and the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970, as amended. 

Net Capital Requirements 

Approximately 29% of our total assets at December 31, 2015 consisted of cash and cash equivalents, securities owned and receivables from clearing brokers and other broker-dealers, all of which fluctuate, depending upon the levels of customer business and trading activity. Receivables from broker-dealers, which are primarily from clearing brokers, turn over rapidly. A relatively small percentage of our total assets are fixed. The total assets or the individual components of total assets may vary significantly from period to period because of changes relating to economic and market conditions. 

Our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC&#8217;s Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1, which we refer to as the Net Capital Rule. The Net Capital Rule requires that broker-dealers maintain minimum net capital and is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Net capital is defined as the net worth of a broker-dealer, subject to certain adjustments, and may be calculated in one of two ways. In computing net capital, various adjustments are made to net worth which exclude assets not readily convertible into cash. Also, the regulations require that certain assets, such as a broker-dealer&#8217;s position in securities, be valued in a conservative manner to avoid inflation of the broker-dealer&#8217;s net capital. 

Each of Securities America, Triad, Investacorp, KMS and Ladenburg has elected to compute its net capital under the alternative method allowed by the Net Capital Rule and at December 31, 2015, each had a $250,000 minimum net capital requirement. At December 31, 2015, Securities America had regulatory net capital of $6,646,000, Triad had regulatory net capital of $8,063,000, Investacorp had regulatory net capital of $5,474,000, KMS had regulatory net capital &#32; of $5,774,000 and Ladenburg had regulatory net capital of $22,972,000. 

SSN has elected to compute its net capital under the basic method allowed by the Net Capital Rule and at December 31, 2015, it had net capital of $6,731,000, which was $5,792,000 in excess of its required net capital of $939,000, and had a net capital ratio of 2.09 to 1. 

Securities America, Triad, Investacorp, KMS and Ladenburg claim exemptions from the provisions of the SEC&#8217;s Rule 15c3-3 pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(ii) as they clear their customer transactions through a clearing broker on a fully disclosed basis. 

Also, funds invested as equity capital may not be withdrawn, nor may any unsecured advances or loans be made to any stockholder of a registered broker-dealer, if, after giving effect to the withdrawal, advance or loan and to any other withdrawal, advance or loan as well as to any scheduled payments of subordinated debt that are scheduled to occur within six months, the net capital of the broker-dealer would fall below 120% of the minimum dollar amount of net capital required or the ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital would exceed 10 to 1. 

Further, any funds invested in the form of subordinated debt generally must be invested for a minimum term of one year and repayment of such debt may be suspended if the broker-dealer fails to maintain certain minimum net capital levels. For example, scheduled payments of subordinated debt are suspended in the event that the ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital of the broker-dealer would exceed 12 to 1 or its net capital would be less than 120% of the minimum dollar amount of net capital required. The net capital rule also prohibits payments of dividends, redemption of stock and the prepayment, or payment in respect of principal or subordinated indebtedness if net capital, after giving effect to the payment, redemption or repayment, would be less than the specified percentage (120%) of the minimum net capital requirement. 

Premier Trust, chartered by the state of Nevada, is subject to regulation by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry Financial Institutions Division. Under Nevada law, Premier Trust must maintain minimum stockholder&#8217;s equity of at least $1,000,000, including at least $250,000 in cash. At December 31, 2015, Premier Trust had stockholder&#8217;s equity of approximately $1,468,000, including at least $250,000 in cash. 

Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to fines, suspension or expulsion by FINRA, the SEC and other regulatory bodies and ultimately may require its liquidation. During the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2016, Triad had a short-term net-capital deficiency. In March 2014, Triad entered into a settlement with FINRA regarding the 2009 deficiency under which Triad agreed to a fine and censure. Compliance with the net capital rule could limit Ladenburg&#8217;s operations that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities, and also could restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to pay dividends and repay debt. 

In the past, Ladenburg has entered into, and from time to time in the future may enter into, temporary subordinated loan arrangements to borrow funds on a short-term basis from our shareholders or clearing brokers to supplement the capital of our broker-dealers to allow them to facilitate underwriting transactions. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

We are domiciled in the United States and substantially all of our revenue is attributed to activities in the United States. All of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. 

Personnel 

At December 31, 2015, we had 1,307 full-time employees. No employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

