 Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 9 Item 2. Properties 9 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 14 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 22 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 23 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 36 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 36 Item 9B. Other Information 37 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 37 Item 11. Executive Compensation 41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 46 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 47 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may", "should", "expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "predicts", "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to "common shares" refer to the common shares in our capital stock. As used in this current report and unless otherwise indicated, the terms "we", "us" and "our" mean Lithium Corporation, unless otherwise indicated. GENERAL OVERVIEW We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on January 30, 2007 under the name "Utalk Communications Inc.". At inception, we were a development stage corporation engaged in the business of developing and marketing a call-back service using a call-back platform. Because we were not successful in implementing our business plan, we considered various alternatives to ensure the viability and solvency of our company. On August 31, 2009, we entered into a letter of intent with Nevada Lithium regarding a business combination which may be effected in one of several different ways, including an asset acquisition, merger of our company and Nevada Lithium, or a share exchange whereby we would purchase the shares of Nevada Lithium from its shareholders in exchange for restricted shares of our common stock. Effective September 30, 2009, we effected a 1 old for 60 new forward stock split of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, our authorized capital increased from 50,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001 to 3,000,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001 and our issued and outstanding shares increased from 4,470,000 shares of common stock to 268,200,000 shares of common stock. Also effective September 30, 2009, we changed our name from "Utalk Communications, Inc." to "Lithium Corporation", by way of a merger with our wholly owned subsidiary Lithium Corporation, which was formed solely for the change of name. The name change and forward stock split became effective with the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board at the opening for trading on October 1, 2009 under the stock symbol "LTUM". Our CUSIP number is 536804 107. 3 On October 9, 2009, we entered into a share exchange agreement with Nevada Lithium and the shareholders of Nevada Lithium. The closing of the transactions contemplated in the share exchange agreement and the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common stock in the capital of Nevada Lithium occurred on October 19, 2009. In accordance with the closing of the share exchange agreement, we issued 12,350,000 shares of our common stock to the former shareholders of Nevada Lithium in exchange for the acquisition, by our company, of all of the 12,350,000 issued and outstanding shares of Nevada Lithium. Also, pursuant to the terms of the share exchange agreement, a director of our company cancelled 220,000,000 restricted shares of our common stock. Nevada Lithium's corporate status was allowed to lapse and the company's status with the Nevada Secretary of State has been revoked. OUR CURRENT BUSINESS We are an exploration stage mining company engaged in the identification, acquisition, and exploration of metals and minerals with a focus on lithium mineralization on properties located in Nevada, and Graphite properties in British Columbia. Our current operational focus is to conduct exploration activities on the Fish Lake Valley property and San Emidio prospects in Nevada and the BC Sugar property in British Columbia. We are currently evaluating the opportunities that the Summa lands present (the Hughes Claims), while also exploring other locations which are believed to be prospective for hosting lithium or graphite mineralization, as well as evaluating opportunities brought to our company by third parties. Effective April 23, 2014, we entered into an operating agreement with All American Resources, L.L.C and TY & Sons Investments Inc. with respect to Summa, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company incorporated on December 12, 2013, wherein we hold a 25% membership. Our company's capital contribution to Summa, LLC was $125,000, of which $100,000 was in cash and the balance in services. To date we have contributed an additional $10,000 to Summa, LLC. Effective August 15, 2014, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Pathion, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Pathion Mining Inc., a Nevada corporation. Pursuant to the Agreement, we agreed to sell to Pathion, Inc. and Pathion Mining, our rights, interests and assets relating to our Fish Lake Valley, San Emidio and BC Sugar properties. The asset purchase agreement was set to close at the end of September 2014, but was extended to October 17, 2014 by mutual agreement, and was further extended until January 19, 2015. After Pathion failed to close the agreement within the agreed upon extended timeframe, we gave notice on January 27, 2015 of the termination of the asset purchase agreement entered into on August 15, 2014. On February 20, 2015, our company signed a letter of intent with Kingsmere Mining Ltd., which is the preliminary step whereby Kingsmere, or their appointee, may choose to buy or option our company's lithium brine properties in Nevada. The letter allowed for a due diligence and election period until April 1, 2015 with closing by April 15, 2015. The terms of the letter of intent with Kingsmere were subsequently extended to May 31, 2015. Our company and Kingsmere were not able to reach an agreement and a press release notifying the public was issued on June 23, 2015. On February 16, 2016, we issued a news release announcing that our company has entered into a letter of intent with 1032701 B.C. Ltd. with respect to our Fish Lake Valley lithium brine property in Esmeralda County, Nevada. On March 10, 2016 we issued a news release announcing the signing of the Fish Lake Valley Earn-In Agreement. The terms of the Earn-In Agreement allow 1032701 to earn an 80% interest in Fish Lake Valley for payments over two years totaling $300,000 and issuance of 400,000 common shares of the publicly traded company anticipated to result from a Going Public Transaction, and work performed on the property over three years in the amount of $1,100,000. 1032701 then has a Subsequent Earn-In option to purchase Lithium Corporation's remaining 20% working interest within one year of earning the 80% by paying the Company a further $1,000,000, at that point the Company would retain a 2.5% Net Smelter Royalty, half of which may be purchased by 1032701 for an additional $1,000,000. Should the Purchaser elect not to exercise the Subsequent Earn-In, a joint venture will be 4 established. During the Joint Venture, should either party be diluted below a 10% working interest - their interest in the property will revert to a 7.5% Net Smelter Royalty. The first tranche of cash and shares are to be issued within 60 days of the signing of the formal agreement. Menika Mining, a publicly traded company on the TSX Venture Exchange trading under the symbol MML has announced on March 8, 2016 that it is in the process of acquiring 1032701 B.C. Ltd and the right to acquire the Fish Lake Valley Property. Our company intends to continue the exploration/assessment of San Emidio lithium brine properties in Nevada and on our BC Sugar flake graphite property in British Columbia, while tracking progress at Fish Lake Valley and determining further plans of action with respect to our Mount Heimdal flake graphite property in British Columbia. We will continue assessing our options with respect to our 25% interest in Summa, LLC, a private Nevada company, which holds the residue of the "Howard Hughes" Summa Corp., while generating new prospects and evaluating property submittals for option or purchase. COMPETITION The mining industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major mining companies, which have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources and staffs. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for access to funds. There are other competitors that have operations in the area and the presence of these competitors could adversely affect our ability to compete for financing and obtain the service providers, staff or equipment necessary for the exploration and exploitation of our properties. COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to various national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in United States and Canada, as well as other jurisdictions, which govern prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. We believe that we are and will continue to be in compliance in all material respects with applicable statutes and the regulations passed in the United States and Canada. There are no current orders or directions relating to our company with respect to the foregoing laws and regulations. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We have incurred $Nil in research and development expenditures over the last two fiscal years. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We do not currently have any intellectual property, other than our domain name and website, www.lithiumcorporation.com. EMPLOYEES We have no employees. Our officers and directors provide their services to our company as independent consultants. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those set forth below: 5 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH MINING ALL OF OUR PROPERTIES ARE IN THE EXPLORATION STAGE. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE CAN ESTABLISH THE EXISTENCE OF ANY MINERAL RESOURCE ON ANY OF OUR PROPERTIES IN COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITABLE QUANTITIES. UNTIL WE CAN DO SO, WE CANNOT EARN ANY REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS AND IF WE DO NOT DO SO WE WILL LOSE ALL OF THE FUNDS THAT WE EXPEND ON EXPLORATION. IF WE DO NOT DISCOVER ANY MINERAL RESOURCE IN A COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITABLE QUANTITY, OUR BUSINESS COULD FAIL. Despite exploration work on our mineral properties, we have not established that any of them contain any mineral reserve, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to do so. If we do not, our business could fail. A mineral reserve is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its Industry Guide 7 (which can be viewed over the Internet at http://www.sec.gov/about/forms/industryguides.pdf) as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The probability of an individual prospect ever having a "reserve" that meets the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote; in all probability our mineral resource property does not contain any "reserve" and any funds that we spend on exploration will probably be lost. Even if we do eventually discover a mineral reserve on one or more of our properties, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop our properties into producing mines and extract those resources. Both mineral exploration and development involve a high degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The commercial viability of an established mineral deposit will depend on a number of factors including, by way of example, the size, grade and other attributes of the mineral deposit, the proximity of the resource to infrastructure such as a smelter, roads and a point for shipping, government regulation and market prices. Most of these factors will be beyond our control, and any of them could increase costs and make extraction of any identified mineral resource unprofitable. MINERAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAW AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION. EVEN IF WE DISCOVER A MINERAL RESOURCE IN A COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITABLE QUANTITY, THESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS COULD RESTRICT OR PROHIBIT THE EXPLOITATION OF THAT MINERAL RESOURCE. IF WE CANNOT EXPLOIT ANY MINERAL RESOURCE THAT WE MIGHT DISCOVER ON OUR PROPERTIES, OUR BUSINESS MAY FAIL. Both mineral exploration and extraction require permits from various foreign, federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities and are governed by laws and regulations, including those with respect to prospecting, mine development, mineral production, transport, export, taxation, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any of the permits required for the continued exploration of our mineral properties or for the construction and operation of a mine on our properties at economically viable costs. If we cannot accomplish these objectives, our business could fail. We believe that we are in compliance with all material laws and regulations that currently apply to our activities but there can be no assurance that we can continue to remain in compliance. Current laws and regulations could be amended and we might not be able to comply with them, as amended. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all permits necessary for our future operations, or that we will be able to obtain them on reasonable terms. To the extent such approvals are required and are not obtained, we may be delayed or prohibited from proceeding with planned exploration or development of our mineral properties. 6 IF WE ESTABLISH THE EXISTENCE OF A MINERAL RESOURCE ON ANY OF OUR PROPERTIES IN A COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITABLE QUANTITY, WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN ORDER TO DEVELOP THE PROPERTY INTO A PRODUCING MINE. IF WE CANNOT RAISE THIS ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EXPLOIT THE RESOURCE, AND OUR BUSINESS COULD FAIL. If we do discover mineral resources in commercially exploitable quantities on any of our properties, we will be required to expend substantial sums of money to establish the extent of the resource, develop processes to extract it and develop extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure. Although we may derive substantial benefits from the discovery of a major deposit, there can be no assurance that such a resource will be large enough to justify commercial operations, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to raise the funds required for development on a timely basis. If we cannot raise the necessary capital or complete the necessary facilities and infrastructure, our business may fail. MINERAL EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT IS SUBJECT TO EXTRAORDINARY OPERATING RISKS. WE DO NOT CURRENTLY INSURE AGAINST THESE RISKS. IN THE EVENT OF A CAVE-IN OR SIMILAR OCCURRENCE, OUR LIABILITY MAY EXCEED OUR RESOURCES, WHICH WOULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR COMPANY. Mineral exploration, development and production involves many risks which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Our operations will be subject to all the hazards and risks inherent in the exploration for mineral resources and, if we discover a mineral resource in commercially exploitable quantity, our operations could be subject to all of the hazards and risks inherent in the development and production of resources, including liability for pollution, cave-ins or similar hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Any such event could result in work stoppages and damage to property, including damage to the environment. We do not currently maintain any insurance coverage against these operating hazards. The payment of any liabilities that arise from any such occurrence would have a material adverse impact on our company. MINERAL PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO DRAMATIC AND UNPREDICTABLE FLUCTUATIONS. We expect to derive revenues, if any, either from the sale of our mineral resource properties or from the extraction and sale of lithium and/or associated byproducts. The price of those commodities has fluctuated widely in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumptive patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new extraction developments and improved extraction and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of base and precious metals, and therefore the economic viability of any of our exploration properties and projects, cannot accurately be predicted. THE MINING INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO BE SUCCESSFUL IN ACQUIRING MINERAL CLAIMS. IF WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO ACQUIRE PROPERTIES TO EXPLORE FOR MINERAL RESOURCES, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REDUCE OR CEASE OPERATIONS. The mineral exploration, development, and production industry is largely un-integrated. We compete with other exploration companies looking for mineral resource properties. While we compete with other exploration companies in the effort to locate and acquire mineral resource properties, we will not compete with them for the removal or sales of mineral products from our properties if we should eventually discover the presence of them in quantities sufficient to make production economically feasible. Readily available markets exist worldwide for the sale of mineral products. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any mineral products that we identify and produce. In identifying and acquiring mineral resource properties, we compete with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities. This competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire suitable prospects for exploration in the future. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will acquire any interest in additional mineral resource properties that might yield reserves or result in commercial mining operations. 7 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY THE FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT EARNED ANY OPERATING REVENUES SINCE OUR INCORPORATION RAISES SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO EXPLORE OUR MINERAL PROPERTIES AS A GOING CONCERN. We have not generated any revenue from operations since our incorporation and we anticipate that we will continue to incur operating expenses without revenues unless and until we are able to identify a mineral resource in a commercially exploitable quantity on one or more of our mineral properties and we build and operate a mine. We had cash in the amount of $191,465 as of December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, we had working capital of $183,965. We incurred a net loss of $282,739 for the year ended December 31, 2015. We estimate our average monthly operating expenses to be approximately $35,000, including property costs, management services and administrative costs. Should the results of our planned exploration require us to increase our current operating budget, we may have to raise additional funds to meet our currently budgeted operating requirements for the next 12 months. As we cannot assure a lender that we will be able to successfully explore and develop our mineral properties, we will probably find it difficult to raise debt financing from traditional lending sources. We have traditionally raised our operating capital from sales of equity securities, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. If we cannot raise the money that we need to continue exploration of our mineral properties, we may be forced to delay, scale back, or eliminate our exploration activities. If any of these were to occur, there is a substantial risk that our business would fail. Management has plans to seek additional capital through private placements of its capital stock. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our company's ability to continue as a going concern. Although there are no assurances that management's plans will be realized, management believes that our company will be able to continue operations in the future. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets, or the amounts of and classification of liabilities that might be necessary in the event our company cannot continue in existence." We continue to experience net operating losses. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK TRADING ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD MAY BE VOLATILE AND SPORADIC, WHICH COULD DEPRESS THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO RESELL THEIR SHARES. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"). Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like NASDAQ or a stock exchange like Amex. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of their shares. OUR STOCK IS A PENNY STOCK. TRADING OF OUR STOCK MAY BE RESTRICTED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION'S PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS AND FINRA'S SALES PRACTICE REQUIREMENTS, WHICH MAY LIMIT A STOCKHOLDER'S ABILITY TO BUY AND SELL OUR STOCK. Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from 8 the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. In addition to the "penny stock" rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA's requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. OTHER RISKS TRENDS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business, but we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can we guarantee that we have identified all possible risks that might arise. Investors should carefully consider all of such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a "smaller reporting company", we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate head office is located at 1031 Railroad Street, Suite 102B, Elko, Nevada, 89801, our monthly rent is $350, which also includes storage space for field gear. MINERAL PROPERTIES FISH LAKE VALLEY PROPERTY Fish Lake Valley is a lithium enriched playa (also known as a salar, or salt pan), which is located in northern Esmeralda County in west central Nevada, and the property is roughly centered at 417050E 4195350N (NAD 27 CONUS). We currently hold twenty six, 80-acre Association Placer claims that cover approximately 2,080 acres (863 hectares). Lithium-enriched Tertiary-era Fish Lake formation rhyolitic tuffs or ash flow tuffs have accumulated in a valley or basinal environment. Over time interstitial formational waters in contact with these tuffs, have become enriched in lithium, boron and potassium which could possibly be amenable to extraction by evaporative methods. Our company allowed 56 claims to lapse on September 1, 2012, which covered the southern playa area. A further 14 claims were allowed to lapse on September 1, 2015. 9 The property was originally held under mining lease purchase agreement dated June 1, 2009, between Nevada Lithium Corporation, and Nevada Alaska Mining Co. Inc., Robert Craig, Barbara Craig, and Elizabeth Dickman. Nevada Lithium issued to the vendors $350,000 worth of common stock of our company in eight regular disbursements. All disbursements were made of stock worth a total of $350,000, and claim ownership was transferred to our company. The geological setting at Fish Lake Valley is highly analogous to the salars of Chile, Bolivia, and Peru, and more importantly Clayton Valley, where Albemarle has its Silver Peak lithium-brine operation. Access is excellent in Fish Lake Valley with all-weather gravel roads leading to the property from state highways 264, and 265, and maintained gravel roads ring the playa. Power is available approximately 10 miles from the property, and the village of Dyer is approximately 12 miles to the south, while the town of Tonopah, Nevada is approximately 50 miles to the east. Our company completed a number of geochemical and geophysical studies on the property, and conducted a short drill program on the periphery of the playa in the fall of 2010. Near-surface brine sampling during the spring of 2011 outlined a boron/lithium/potassium anomaly on the northern portions of the northern playa, that is roughly 1.3 x 2 miles long, which has a smaller higher grade core where lithium mineralization ranges from 100 to 150 mg/L (average 122.5 mg/L), with boron ranging from 1,500 to 2,670 mg/L (average 2,219 mg/L), and potassium from 5,400 to 8,400 mg/L (average 7,030 mg/L). Wet conditions on the playa precluded drilling there in 2011, and for a good portion of 2012, however a window of opportunity presented itself in late fall 2012. In November/December 2012 we conducted a short direct push drill program on the northern end of the playa, wherein a total of 1,240.58 feet (378.09 meters) was drilled in 20 holes at 17 discrete sites, and an area of 3,356 feet (1,023 meters) by 2,776 feet (846 meters) was systematically explored by grid probing. The deepest hole was 81 feet (24.69 meters), and the shallowest hole that produced brine was 34 feet (10.36 meters). The average depth of the holes drilled during the program was 62 feet (18.90 meters). The program successfully demonstrated that lithium-boron-potassium-enriched brines exist to at least 62 feet (18.9 meters) depth in sandy or silty aquifers that vary from approximately three to ten feet (one to three meters) in thickness. Average lithium, boron and potassium contents of all samples are 47.05 mg/L, 992.7 mg/L, and 0.535% respectively, with lithium values ranging from 7.6 mg/L to 151.3 mg/L, boron ranging from 146 to 2,160.7 mg/L, and potassium ranging from 0.1 to 1.3%. The anomaly outlined by the program is 1,476 by 2,461 feet (450 meters by 750 meters), and is not fully delimited, as the area available for probing was restricted due to soft ground conditions to the east and to the south. A 50 mg/L lithium cutoff is used to define this anomaly and within this zone average lithium, boron and potassium contents are 90.97 mg/L, 1,532.92 mg/L, and 0.88% respectively. On September 3, 2013, we announced that drilling had commenced at Fish Lake Valley. Due to storms and wet conditions in the area which our company hoped to concentrate on, the playa was not passable, and so the program concentrated on larger step-out drilling well off the playa. This 11 hole, 1,025 foot program did prove that mineralization does not extend much, if at all, past the margins of the playa, as none of the fluids encountered in this program were particularly briny, and returned values of less than 5 mg/L lithium. Our company is very pleased with the results here, and believe that the playa at Fish Lake Valley may be conducive to the formation of a "silver peak" style lithium brine deposit. Our company reviewed the results in regards to the overall geological interpretation of the lithium, boron and potassium bearing strata. The results confirm the presence of targeted mineralization and further evaluation programs will focus on determining the extent and depth of mineralization. We have signed an Exploration Earn-In Agreement with 1032701 B.C. LTD., a private British Columbia company with respect to our Fish Lake Valley lithium brine property. 1032701 BC Ltd., may acquire an initial 80% undivided interest in the Fish Lake Valley property through the payment of an aggregate of US$300,000 in cash, completing a Going Public Transaction on or before May 6, 2016, and subject to the completion of the Going Public Transaction, arranging for the issuance of a total of 400,000 common shares in the capital of the Resulting Issuer as follows: (i) within five Business Days following the effective date, * Pay $100,000 to our company and issue 200,000 common shares of the TSX-V listed public company. 10 * On or before the first anniversary of the signing of the Definitive Agreement pay $100,000 to our company and issue 100,000 common shares of the Optionee/TSX-V listed public company. * On or before the second anniversary of the signing of the definitive agreement pay $100,000 to our company and issue 100,000 common shares of the Optionee/TSX-V listed public company. The Optionee must make qualified exploration or development expenditures on the property of $200,000 before the first anniversary, an additional $300,000 before the second anniversary, an additional $600,000 prior to the third anniversary, and make all payments and perform all other acts to maintain the Property in good standing before fully earning their 80% interest. Additionally, terms will be negotiated for the Optionee to purchase our 20% interest in the property for $1,000,000, at which point the our interest would revert to a 2 1/2% Net Smelter Royalty (NSR). The Optionee may then elect at any time to purchase one half of our NSR for $1,000,000. SAN EMIDIO PROPERTY The San Emidio property, located in Washoe County in northwestern Nevada, was acquired through the staking of claims in September 2011. The twelve, 80-acre, Association Placer claims currently held here cover an area of approximately 960 acres (640 hectares). Ten claims in the southern portions of the original claim block that was staked in 2011 were allowed to lapse on September 1, 2012, and a further ten claims were then staked and recorded. These new claims are north of and contiguous to the surviving claims from our earlier block. The property is approximately 65 miles north-northeast of Reno, Nevada, and has excellent infrastructure. A further eight claims were allowed to lapse on September 01st 2015. We developed this prospect during 2009, and 2010 through surface sampling, and the early reconnaissance sampling determined that anomalous values for lithium occur in the playa sediments over a good portion of the playa. This sampling appeared to indicate that the most prospective areas on the playa may be on the newly staked block proximal to the southern margin of the basin, where it is possible the structures that are responsible for the geothermal system here may also have influenced lithium deposition in sediments. Our company conducted near-surface brine sampling in the spring of 2011, and a high resolution gravity geophysical survey in summer/fall 2011. Our company then permitted a 7 hole drilling program with the Bureau of Land Management in late fall 2011, and a direct push drill program was commenced in early February 2012. Drilling here delineated a narrow elongated shallow brine reservoir which is greater than 2.5 miles length, and which is adjacent to a basinal feature outlined by the earlier gravity survey. Two values of over 20 milligrams/liter lithium were obtained from two holes located centrally in this brine anomaly. Most recently we drilled this prospect in late October 2012, further testing the area of the property in the vicinity where prior exploration by our company discovered elevated lithium levels in subsurface brines. During the 2012 program a total of 856 feet (260.89 meters) was drilled at 8 discrete sites. The deepest hole was 160 feet (48.76 meters), and the shallowest hole that produced brine was 90 feet (27.43 meters). The average depth of the seven hole program was 107 feet (32.61 meters). The program better defined a lithium-in-brine anomaly that was discovered in early 2012. This anomaly is approximately 0.6 miles (370 meters) wide at its widest point by more than 2 miles (3 kilometers) long. The peak value seen within the anomaly is 23.7 mg/l lithium, which is 10 to 20 times background levels outside the anomaly. Our company believes that, much like Fish Lake Valley, the playa at San Emidio may be conducive to the formation of a "Silver Peak" style lithium brine deposit, and the recent drilling indicates that the anomaly occurs at or near the intersection of several faults that may have provided the structural setting necessary for the formation of a lithium-in-brine deposit at depth. Our company has compiled all data and amended our permit with the Bureau of Land Management to allow for the drilling of three reverse circulation drill holes to depths of 500 feet in order to test for lithium brine mineralization. 11 MOUNT HEIMDAL FLAKE GRAPHITE PROPERTY On April 15, 2013, we entered into a mining option agreement with, Tom Lewis, a director and former officer of our company, wherein we had the option to acquire a 100% interest in the Mount Heimdal Flake Graphite property in the Slocan Mining Division of British Columbia, Canada. The Mount Heimdal property is currently comprised of one mineral claim, which encompasses 1,386 acres (575 hectares) of highly metamorphosed rock. The property is roughly six miles (10 kms) south of Eagle Graphite's Black Crystal quarry, and is located within the same package of gneisses, graphite mineralized marbles, and calc-silicate gneisses. Data from BC Geological Survey assessment reports indicate that mineralization grading up to 4.8% graphitic carbon may be located on the property. High purity graphite is presently the most widely used anode material for lithium ion battery technology, and typically greater than 10 times more graphite is used in comparison to lithium in lithium ion battery production. In addition to increased graphite consumption due to growth in lithium ion batteries sales, carbon fiber composites are increasingly being utilized in auto, and aircraft construction. Also, presently there is considerable research into graphene, a flake graphite product, and it is possible a myriad of new applications or discoveries will ensue as a direct result of this work. Pursuant to the terms of the original agreement, we were required to spend $15,000 in exploration on the property and complete an assessment report by November 30, 2013, and upon successful completion of the program and the report, our company was to earn a 100% interest in the claims, subject to a 1.5% net overriding royalty to the vendor from the proceeds of production. Prospecting work was performed on the Mount Heimdal property in June/July 2013 and several mineralized zones were noted here, the best of which graded 3.72% flake graphite. Although the work was encouraging it was decided that our company would be best served presently by focusing on the BC Sugar property. Our company negotiated an agreement with Tom Lewis, a director and former officer of our company, with Tom Lewis as the vendor of Mount Heimdal, whereby Mr. Lewis assigned his 100% interest in the property for a 2% net smelter royalty on any proceeds from future production from the property. In addition Mr. Lewis holds title to both the Mount Heimdal, and BC Sugar properties, in trust, for our company and will transfer all interest at such time as our company creates a subsidiary that is eligible to hold title in mineral properties in British Columbia. In August 2014, an exploration crew was mobilized to explore the Mount Heimdal flake graphite property. The program focused on flake graphite mineralization discovered on the property during the brief program undertaken in 2013, while exploring other areas of the property that were felt to also be prospective for hosting flake graphite mineralization. No further significant mineralization was found, and our company is considering options for this property moving forward. BC SUGAR FLAKE GRAPHITE PROPERTY On June 6, 2013, we entered into a mining claim sale agreement with Herb Hyder wherein Mr. Hyder agreed to sell to our company a 50.829 acre (20.57 hectare) claim located in the Cherryville area of British Columbia. As consideration for the purchase of the property, we issued 250,000 shares of our company's common stock to Mr. Hyder. In addition to the acquired claim, our company staked or acquired another 13 claims at various times over the subsequent months, to bring the total area held under tenure to approximately 19,816 acres (8,020 hectares). The flake graphite mineralization of interest here is hosted predominately in graphitic quartz/biotite, and lesser graphitic calc-silicate gneisses. The rocks in the general area of the BC Sugar prospect are similar to the host rocks in the area of the crystal graphite deposit 55 miles (90 kms) to the southeast, in the vicinity of our company's Mount Heimdal block of claims. Currently the Company holds 3 claims covering 6838 acres (2837 hectares). The BC Sugar property is well placed in the Shushwap Metamorphic Complex, in a geological environment favorable for the formation of flake graphite deposits, and is in an area of excellent logistics, with a considerable network of logging roads within the project area. Additionally the town of Lumby is approximately 12 19 miles (30 kms) to the south of the property, while the City of Vernon is only 30 miles (50 kms) to the southwest of the western portions of the claim block. We received final assays from the October 2013 prospecting and geological program at the BC Sugar property in December of 2013. That work increased the area known to be underlain by graphitic bearing gneisses, and further evaluations were made in the area of the Sugar Lake, Weather Station, and Taylor Creek showings. In the general vicinity of the Weather Station showing, a further 13 samples were taken, and hand trenching was performed at one of several outcrops in the area. In the trench a 5.2 meter interval returned an average of 3.14% graphitic carbon, all in an oxidized relatively friable gneissic host rock. Additionally a hydrothermal or vein type mineralized graphitic quartz boulder was discovered in the area which graded up to 4.19% graphitic carbon. The source of this boulder was not discovered during this program, but it is felt to be close to its point of origin. Samples representative of the mineralization encountered here were taken for petrographic study, which was received in late 2013. A brief assessment work program was performed in September 2014 to ensure all claims in the package were in good standing prior to the anticipated sale of this asset to Pathion. Recommendations were made by the consulting geologist who wrote the assessment report with respect to trenching, and eventually drilling the Weather Station showing. Our company submitted a Notice of Work to the BC Government in early May 2015 to enable our company to conduct a program of excavator trenching, sampling and geological mapping on the Weather Station showing. In May of 2015 we signed an agreement with KLM Geosciences LLC of Las Vegas to conduct a short Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) survey on the property in the Weather Station - Taylor Creek areas. The GPR survey as well as a GEM-2 electromagnetic (EM) survey took place in approximately mid-May 2015. The GPR survey did not provide useful data because of the moisture saturation in the shallow subsurface. The EM survey successfully generated an anomaly over known mineralization as well as extended the anomaly to the west under an area of cover consisting of glacial/fluvial till. Lithium Corporation is pleased with the results of the EM survey and is considering modifying our work plans to include additional work that builds on the results of this survey. In August of 2015 our Notice of Work for trenching was approved by the BC Government and in October we commenced work. A trench of 265.76 feet (81 meters) was excavated and graphitic gneiss was mapped and sampled. In all 23 samples were taken over the 69 m's of exposed mineralization that could be safely sampled. Sampling encountered 69 meters that averaged 1.997% graphitic carbon, that remains open to the north, and to the south. Within that interval there was a 30-meter section that averaged 2.73% graphitic carbon, and within that interval there was a 12-meter section that averaged 2.99% graphitic carbon. The best mineralization, and most friable material is proximal to a creek bed, and it appears that proximity to this gave rise to the deep weathering profile encountered here. Lithium Corporation is currently studying the results, and determining what steps to take for further exploration. THE HUGHES CLAIMS Effective April 23, 2014, we entered into an operating agreement with All American Resources, LLC and TY & Sons Investments Inc. with respect to Summa, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company incorporated on December 12, 2013, wherein we hold a 25% membership in a number of patented mining claims that spring from the once vast holdings of Howard Hughes. Our company's capital contribution paid to Summa, LLC was $125,000, of which $100,000 was in cash and the balance in services. Our company participated in the formation of Summa, which holds 88 fee-title patented lode claims, which cover approximately 1,191.3 acres of prospective mineral lands. Our company has recently signed a joint operating agreement with the other participants to govern the conduct of Summa, and the development of the lands. Our company's director, Tom Lewis, has been named as a managing member of Summa. The Hughes lands are situated in six discrete prospect areas in Nevada, the most notable of which being the Tonopah block in Nye County where Summa holds 56 claims that cover approximately 770 acres in the heart of the historic mining camp where over 1.8 million ounces of gold and 174 million ounces of silver were produced predominately in the early 1900's. The Hughes claims include a number of the prolific past producers in Tonopah, such as the Belmont, the Desert Queen, and the Midway mines. In addition there are also claims in the area of 13 the past producing Klondyke East mining district, which is to the south of Tonopah, and at the town of Belmont (not to be confused with the Belmont claim in Tonopah), Nevada, another notable silver producer from the 1800's, which is roughly 40 miles to the northeast of Tonopah. Recently research has been conducted on the Hughes properties, focusing on the Tonopah area where reporting in the 1980's, indicate that over 2.175 million tons of mine dumps and mill tailings exist at surface on Summa's properties that contain in the order of 3.453 million ounces of silver, and 28,500 ounces of gold. In addition to this easily extractable surficial resource, other reports indicate that 300 - 500,000 tons of mineralized material is expected to remain at depth in old workings on Summa's properties, which is believed to contain an average 20 ounces silver and 0.02 ounces gold per ton. Also several partially tested exploration targets have been identified on Summa's Tonopah claims, where further work could potentially lead to a marked increase in known underground resources. In the general area of our company's newest acquisition, West Kirkland Mining has recently announced that it has completed a $29.2 million dollar financing, the proceeds of which were used to purchase a 75% interest in Allied Nevada Gold Corporation's Tonopah properties. West Kirkland also has the option to purchase the remaining 25% interest by paying Allied Nevada a further $10 million dollars on or before October 23, 2016. West Kirkland has recently compiled an updated NI-43-101 resource on the Hasbrouck and Three Hills prospects which are roughly 5.5 and 2 miles, respectively, from Summa's Tonopah claim block and it is West Kirkland's intent to advance these properties to a pre-feasibility study and initiate mine permitting. The Nye County Recorder's office only recently recorded title in favor of Summa LLC., so we are only now beginning to determine how best to capitalize on this asset. We are currently pursuing other properties which are believed to be prospective for hosting lithium or graphite mineralization, as well as evaluating opportunities brought to our company by third parties. Additionally our company is looking to ramp up its generative program exploring for new deposits of next generation battery related materials. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we may become involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. We are not involved in any pending legal proceeding or litigation and, to the best of our knowledge, no governmental authority is contemplating any proceeding to which we area party or to which any of our properties is subject, which would reasonably be likely to have a material adverse effect on us, except for the following: On December 4, 2015 a claim was filed in the United States District Court, District of Nevada by Jablonski Enterprises, Ltd. against several defendants, including our company, Summa, LLC, the Nye County Assessor, the Mapping Administrator for Nye County, the Nye County District Attorney and the Nye County Deputy District Attorney with respect to the a parcel of land in Nye County, which include the Hughes Claims. The claim alleges that the recorded title to a parcel of land, including the Hughes Claims, was wrongly changed from Jablonski Enterprises, Ltd. to Summa, LLC. Our company believes that this claim is baseless, without merit and is purely a nuisance lawsuit. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common shares are quoted on the OTC Markets under the symbol "LTUM." The following quotations, obtained from Stockwatch, reflect the high and low bids for our common shares based on inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not represent actual transactions. 14 The following table reflects the high and low bid information for our common stock obtained from Stockwatch and reflects inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, markdown or commission, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. The high and low bid prices of our common stock for the periods indicated below are as follows: OTC Markets Quarter Ended High Low ------------- ---- --- December 31, 2015 $ 0.0438 $ 0.0186 September 30, 2015 $ 0.0461 $ 0.027 June 30, 2015 $ 0.0569 $ 0.035 March 31, 2015 $ 0.063 $ 0.037 December 31, 2014 $ 0.109 $ 0.0401 September 30, 2014 $ 0.15 $ 0.045 June 30, 2014 $ 0.085 $ 0.0425 March 31, 2014 $ 0.183 $ 0.0177 December 31, 2013 $ 0.055 $ 0.0151 Our shares are issued in registered form. Nevada Agency and Transfer Company, 50 West Liberty Street, Suite 880, Reno, Nevada 89501 (Telephone: (775) 322-0626; Facsimile: (775) 322-5623 is the registrar and transfer agent for our common shares. On March 9, 2016, the shareholders' list showed 15 registered shareholders with 77,611,408 common shares outstanding. DIVIDEND POLICY We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention of paying any dividends on the shares of our common stock. Our current policy is to retain earnings, if any, for use in our operations and in the development of our business. Our future dividend policy will be determined from time to time by our board of directors. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION On December 29, 2009, our board of approved the adoption of the 2009 Stock Plan which permits our company to issue up to 6,055,000 shares of our common stock to directors, officers, employees and consultants. This plan has not been approved by our security holders. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our equity compensation plans as at December 31, 2015: 15 Number of Securities Number of Securities to be Remaining Available for Issued Upon Exercise of Weighted-Average Exercise Future Issuance Under Outstanding Options, Price of Outstanding Options, Equity Compensation Plans Plan Category Warrants and Rights Warrants and Rights (excluding column (a)) ------------- ------------------- ------------------- ---------------------- Equity Compensation Plans Nil Nil Nil Approved by Security Holders Equity Compensation Plans Not 1,000,000 (1) $0.045 5,055,000 Approved by Security Holders Total 1,000,000 (1) $0.045 5,055,000 ---------- (1) Includes 700,000 unexercised stock options issued on November 12, 2014; 200,000 unexercised stock options issued on March 15, 2013 and 100,000 unexercised stock options issued on May 31, 2012. CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2015, we had outstanding options to purchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock exercisable at $0.045. On May 31, 2012, the directors of our company determined that due to current adverse market conditions, it would be in the best interests of our company to re-price an aggregate of 500,000 incentive stock options granted to directors and officers of our company on September 23, 2010 with an exercise price of $0.28, and an aggregate of 450,000 incentive stock options granted to directors and officers of our company on September 23, 2010 with an exercise price of $0.25, to reflect the closing price for our company's common shares quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on May 29, 2012 of $0.07. Also on May 31, 2012, our company granted an aggregate of 400,000 incentive stock options to certain directors and consultants of our company at an exercise price of $0.07, exercisable for a period of five years from the date of grant. This option price on all directors and consultants options was revised downward to $0.045 on March 15, 2013. On March 15, 2013, we granted an aggregate of 200,000 stock options to consultants of our company pursuant to our 2009 Stock Option Plan. The stock options are exercisable for five years from the date of grant at an exercise price of $0.045 per share. On November 12, 2014, our company granted an aggregate of 700,000 stock options to directors and consultants of our company pursuant to our 2009 Stock Option Plan. The stock options are exercisable for five years from the date of grant at an exercise price of $0.045 per share. On February 10, 2016, our board approved the grant of an aggregate of 950,000 stock options to directors and consultants of our company pursuant to our 2009 Stock Option Plan. The stock options are exercisable for five years from the date of grant at an exercise price of $0.025 per share. As of the date of this Annual Report, only 850,000 stock options have been granted. 16 RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES; USE OF PROCEEDS FROM REGISTERED SECURITIES We did not sell any equity securities which were not registered under the Securities Act during the year ended December 31, 2015 that were not otherwise disclosed on our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or our current reports on Form 8-K filed during the year ended December 31, 2015. PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS We did not purchase any of our shares of common stock or other securities during our fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As a "smaller reporting company", we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated audited financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this annual report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report, particularly in the section entitled "Risk Factors" beginning on page 6 of this annual report. Our consolidated audited financial statements are stated in United States Dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. PLAN OF OPERATIONS AND CASH REQUIREMENTS CASH REQUIREMENTS Our current operational focus is to conduct exploration activities on the Fish Lake Valley property and San Emidio prospect in Nevada and the BC Sugar and Mount Heimdal properties in British Columbia. We expect to review other potential exploration projects from time to time as they are presented to us. Our net cash from financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2015 was $67,500 as compared to $2,500 used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2014. Over the next twelve months we expect to expend funds as follows: ESTIMATED NET EXPENDITURES DURING THE NEXT TWELVE MONTHS $ -------- General, Administrative Expenses 190,000 Exploration Expenses 200,000 Travel 30,000 -------- TOTAL 420,000 ======== We have suffered recurring losses from operations. The continuation of our company is dependent upon our company attaining and maintaining profitable operations and raising additional capital as needed. 17 The continuation of our business is dependent upon obtaining further financing, a successful program of exploration and/or development, and, finally, achieving a profitable level of operations. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain further funds required for our continued operations. As noted herein, we are pursuing various financing alternatives to meet our immediate and long-term financial requirements. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis, we will be unable to conduct our operations as planned, and we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due. In such event, we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 The following summary of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, which are included herein. Our operating results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 and the changes between those periods for the respective items are summarized as follows: Change Between Twelve Month Periods Ended Twelve Month Twelve Month December 31, 2015 Period Ended Period Ended and December 31, December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 2014 ---------- ---------- ---------- Revenue $ Nil $ Nil $ Nil Professional fees 39,231 48,768 (9,537) Exploration expenses 56,994 88,762 (31,768) Consulting fees 81,550 98,163 (16,613) Insurance expense 17,088 11,658 5,430 Investor relations 14,710 29,605 (14,895) Transfer agent and filing fees 8,540 6,439 2,101 Travel 12,763 20,208 (7,445) Stock option compensation Nil 38,723 (38,723) General and administrative 9,407 11,706 (2,299) Interest (income) (173) (293) 120 Writedown of mineral properties 27,794 -- 27,794 Loss on investment 14,835 17,868 (3,033) Other income Nil (5,000) 5,000 --------- --------- --------- Net loss $(282,739) $(366,607) $ (83,868) ========= ========= ========= Our financial statements report a net loss of $282,739 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2015 compared to a net loss of $366,607 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014. Our losses have decreased by $83,868, primarily as a result of decreases in professional fees, exploration expense, consulting fees, investor relations, stock option compensation expense and travel offset by increases in insurance expense, transfer agent and filing fees, writedown of mineral properties. Our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $240,283 compared to $354,032 as of December 31, 2014. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily as a result of decreases in professional fees, exploration expense, consulting fees, investor relations, stock option compensation expense and travel offset by increases in insurance expense, transfer agent and filing fees. 18 LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WORKING CAPITAL At At December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 ---------- ---------- Current assets $ 235,744 $ 421,574 Current liabilities 7,500 15,720 ---------- ---------- Working capital $ 228,244 $ 405,854 ========== ========== CASH FLOWS Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 ---------- ---------- Net cash (used in) operating activities $ (250,547) $ (326,239) Net cash (used in) investing activities (5,000) (99,305) Net cash from (used in) financing activities 67,500 (2,500) ---------- ---------- Net increase (decrease) in cash during period $ (188,047) $ (428,044) ========== ========== Our total current liabilities as of December 31, 2015 were $7,500 as compared to total current liabilities of $15,720 as of December 31, 2014. The decrease was immaterial and not outside the normal course of business. OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net cash used in operating activities was $250,547 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared with net cash used in operating activities of $326,239 in the same period in 2014. INVESTING ACTIVITIES Net cash used in investing activities was $5,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $99,305 in the same period in 2014. FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net cash from financing activities was $67,500 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $2,500 used in financing activities in the same period in 2014. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As a "smaller reporting company", we are not required to provide tabular disclosure obligations. GOING CONCERN As of December 31, 2015, our company had a net loss of $282,739 and has earned no revenues. Our company intends to fund operations through equity financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund its capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements for the year ending December 31, 2016. The ability of our company to emerge from the development stage is dependent upon, among other things, obtaining additional financing to continue operations, and development of our business plan. In response to these problems, management intends to raise additional funds through public or private placement offerings. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our 19 company's ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by management's application of accounting policies. We believe that understanding the basis and nature of the estimates and assumptions involved with the following aspects of our financial statements is critical to an understanding of our financial statements. EXPLORATION STAGE COMPANY The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles related to accounting and reporting by exploration stage companies. An exploration stage company is one in which planned principal operations have not commenced or if its operations have commenced, there has been no significant revenues there from. ACCOUNTING BASIS Our company uses the accrual basis of accounting and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP" accounting). Our company has adopted a December 31 fiscal year end. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash includes cash on account, demand deposits, and short-term instruments with maturities of three months or less. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK Our company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts, the balances of which at times may exceed federally insured limits. Our company continually monitors its banking relationships and consequently has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Our company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. REVENUE RECOGNITION Our company has yet to realize revenues from operations. Once the Company has commenced operations, it will recognize revenues when delivery of goods or completion of services has occurred provided there is persuasive evidence of an 20 agreement, acceptance has been approved by its customers, the fee is fixed or determinable based on the completion of stated terms and conditions, and collection of any related receivable is probable. LOSS PER SHARE Basic loss per share is computed by dividing loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. The computation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion, exercise or contingent issuance of securities only when such conversion, exercise or issuance would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. The dilutive effect of convertible securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the "if converted" method. In the periods in which a loss is incurred, the effect of potential issuances of shares under options and warrants would be anti-dilutive, and therefore basic and diluted losses per share are the same. INCOME TAXES The asset and liability approach is used to account for income taxes by recognizing deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Our company's financial instruments consist of cash, deposits, prepaid expenses, and accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Unless otherwise noted, it is management's opinion that our company is not exposed to significant interest, currency or credit risks arising from these financial instruments. Because of the short maturity and capacity of prompt liquidation of such assets and liabilities, the fair value of these financial instruments approximate their carrying values, unless otherwise noted. MINERAL PROPERTIES Costs of exploration, carrying and retaining unproven mineral lease properties are expensed as incurred. Mineral property acquisition costs are capitalized including licenses and lease payments. Although the Company has taken steps to verify title to mineral properties in which it has an interest, these procedures do not guarantee the Company's title. Such properties may be subject to prior agreements or transfers and title may be affected by undetected defects. Impairment losses are recorded on mineral properties used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets' carrying amount. Impairment of $27,794 and $0 was recorded during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. OFFICE LEASE Our company rents office space in Las Vegas, Nevada for $700 per month. The arrangement is on a month-by-month basis and can be terminated by either party. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities," which amends the guidance in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. Changes to the current guidance primarily affect the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, the ASU clarifies guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and are to be adopted by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet at the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. Early adoption is not permitted except for the provision to record fair value 21 changes for financial liabilities under the fair value option resulting from instrument-specific credit risk in other comprehensive income. Our company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. This ASU is effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 16, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. The adoption of this standard will not have any impact on our company's financial position, results of operations and disclosures. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As a "smaller reporting company", we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. 22 