 Item 1. Business 

Organization 

Behringer Harvard Opportunity REIT II, Inc. (which may be referred to as the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) was organized as a Maryland corporation on January 9, 2007 and has elected to be taxed, and currently qualifies, as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) for federal income tax purposes. 

We were formed primarily to acquire and operate commercial real estate and real estate-related assets on an opportunistic and value-add basis. In particular, we have focused generally on acquiring commercial properties with significant possibilities for capital appreciation, such as those requiring development, redevelopment, or repositioning, those located in markets and submarkets with high growth potential, and those available from sellers who are distressed or face time-sensitive deadlines. We have acquired a wide variety of commercial properties, including office, industrial, retail, hospitality and multifamily. We have purchased existing, income-producing properties, and newly-constructed properties. We have also invested in a mortgage loan and a mezzanine loan. We are not actively seeking to purchase additional assets at this time, but may invest capital in our current assets in order to position them for sale in the normal course of business. We intend to hold the various real properties in which we have invested until such time as our board of directors determines that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that the objectives will not be met. Consistent with our investment objectives of commencing a liquidation within three to six years after the termination of our initial public offering, we have entered our disposition phase and our board of directors is in the process of considering the orderly disposition of our assets. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had acquired 21 investments, including a mezzanine loan and a mortgage loan. Of these 21 investments, we have disposed of 12 investments through December 31, 2015, including the early repayment of a mortgage loan that we had originated and the sale of four investments during 2015. In addition, we sold eight of the nine medical office buildings comprising the Florida MOB Portfolio investment during 2013. The number of investment dispositions through December 31, 2015 does not reflect the sale of the eight buildings comprising the Original Florida MOB Portfolio. The Original Florida MOB Portfolio and Gardens Medical Pavilion, collectively, the Florida MOB Portfolio have been counted as one investment. As of December 31, 2015, we own an 80.8% interest in Gardens Medical Pavilion. 

&#32;Substantially all of our business is conducted through Behringer Harvard Opportunity OP II LP, a limited partnership organized in Delaware (the &#8220;Operating Partnership&#8221;). As of December 31, 2015, our wholly-owned subsidiary, BHO II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, owned a 0.1% partnership interest in the Operating Partnership as its sole general partner. As of December 31, 2015, our wholly-owned subsidiary, BHO Business Trust II, a Maryland business trust, was the sole limited partner of the Operating Partnership and owned the remaining 99.9% interest in the Operating Partnership. 

We are externally managed and advised by Behringer Harvard Opportunity Advisors II, LLC (the &#8220;Advisor&#8221;). The Advisor is responsible for managing our day-to-day affairs and for identifying and making investments on our behalf. 

Our office is located at 15601 Dallas Parkway, Suite 600, Addison, Texas 75001, and our toll-free telephone number is (866) 655-3650. The name Behringer Harvard is the property of Behringer Harvard Holdings, LLC (&#8220;Behringer&#8221;) and is used by permission. 

Public Offerings of Common Stock 

From January 21, 2008 until March 15, 2012 (for shares sold pursuant to our primary offering) and April 3, 2012 (for shares sold pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan (the &#8220;DRP&#8221;)), we conducted a public offering of our shares. Pursuant to our public offering, we raised gross offering proceeds of approximately $265.3 million from the sale of approximately 26.7 million shares, including shares sold pursuant to the DRP. 

In connection with our initial capitalization, we issued 22,471 shares of our common stock and 1,000 shares of our convertible stock to Behringer on January 19, 2007. Behringer transferred its shares of convertible stock to one of its affiliates on April 2, 2010. 

As of April 2012, when we terminated the offering, we had issued 26.7 million shares of our common stock, including 22,471 shares owned by Behringer and 2.2 million shares issued through the DRP. As of December 31, 2015, we had redeemed 1.1 million shares of our common stock and had 25.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2015, we had 1,000 shares of convertible stock outstanding held by an affiliate of Behringer. 

Our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange. The timing of a liquidity event will depend upon then prevailing market conditions. We are in the process of disposing of assets and can provide no assurances as to the timing of our ultimate liquidation. As we make disposals, we will liquidate and distribute the net proceeds to our stockholders. Economic or market conditions may, however, result in different holding periods for different assets. 

2015 Highlights 

During 2015, we completed the following key transactions: 

&#8226; 

We sold Babcock Self Storage (&#8220;Babcock&#8221;) on January 8 for a contract sales price of approximately $5.4 million. A portion of the proceeds from the sale were used to pay off in full the existing indebtedness of approximately $2.1 million associated with the self-storage facility. 

&#8226; 

We sold Alte Jakobstra&#223;e (&#8220;AJS&#8221;) on February 21 for a contract sales price of approximately &#8364;12.4 million (approximately $14.1 million). A portion of the proceeds from the sale were used to fully satisfy the existing indebtedness associated with the office building of approximately &#8364;5.7 million (approximately $6.5 million). 

&#8226; 

On March 31, we paid a special cash distribution of $25.7 million, or $1.00 per share of common stock, funded from proceeds of asset sales. 

&#8226; 

We sold Holstenplatz on September 1 for a contract sales price of approximately &#8364;16.4 million (approximately $18.4 million). We paid off the balance of the Holstenplatz debt of $8.1 million on its maturity date of April 30. 

&#8226; 

We sold Wimberly at Deerwood (&#8220;Wimberly&#8221;) on September 9 for a contract sales price of approximately $43.5 million. A portion of the proceeds from the sale of the asset were used to pay off in full the existing indebtedness of approximately $26.4 million secured by the multifamily property. 

&#8226; 

We extended the debt secured by Courtyard Kauai Coconut Beach Hotel by 18 months, from its initial maturity date of November 9, 2015 to May 9, 2017. The balance of the debt at December 31, 2015 was $38 million. 

&#8226; 

On November 20, our board of directors authorized a special cash distribution of $38.4 million, or $1.50 per share of common stock, funded from proceeds of asset sales. The special cash distribution was paid on January 5, 2016. 

&#8226; 

During 2015, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.4 million on our investment in 22 Exchange, a student housing property, due to the current local market in Akron, Ohio. 

For further information regarding our consolidated real estate properties, see Item 2. 

Investment Objectives 

Our primary investment objectives are: 

&#8226; 

to realize growth in the value of our investments to enhance the value received upon our ultimate sale of such investments; 

&#8226; 

to preserve, protect and return our investors&#8217; capital contribution; and 

&#8226; 

to enable our investors to realize a return of their investment by liquidating and distributing net sales proceeds to investors. 

Investment Policies 

We have invested in commercial properties, such as office, industrial, retail, hospitality, multifamily, existing, income-producing properties, and newly-constructed properties that were initially identified as opportunistic and value-add investments with significant possibilities for capital appreciation due to their property specific characteristics or their market characteristics. 

We have disposed of 12 of our original portfolio assets through December 31, 2015, including the early repayment of a mortgage loan that we had originated. We are in our disposition phase and expect to sell our remaining properties in an orderly manner. Economic or market conditions may cause us to hold our investments for longer periods of time or sell an investment at a lower than anticipated price. 

We have generally made our real estate investments in fee title or a long-term leasehold estate through the Operating Partnership or indirectly through limited liability companies or through investments in joint ventures, partnerships, co-tenancies, or other co-ownership arrangements with the developers of the properties, affiliates of the Advisor, or other persons. 

Borrowing Policies 

There is no limitation on the amount we may invest in or borrow related to any single property or other investment. Under our charter, the maximum amount of our indebtedness cannot exceed 300% of our &#8220;net assets&#8221; (as defined by the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts adopted by the North American Securities Administrators Association on May 7, 2007 (the &#8220;NASAA REIT Guidelines&#8221;)) as of the date of any borrowing; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent directors. In addition to our charter limitation, our board of directors has adopted a policy to generally limit our aggregate borrowings to approximately 75% of the aggregate value of our assets unless substantial justification exists that borrowing a greater amount is in our best interests. Our board of directors must review our aggregate borrowings at least quarterly. As of December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate debt leverage ratio of approximately 46.7% of the aggregate value of our assets. 

Disposition Policies 

As each of our investments reaches what we believe to be the asset&#8217;s optimum value during the expected life of the program, we will consider disposing of the investment and may do so for the purpose of distributing the net sale proceeds to our stockholders or satisfying obligations of the Company. Consistent with our investment objectives of commencing a liquidation within three to six years after the termination of our initial public offering, we have entered our disposition phase and our board of directors is in the process of considering the orderly disposition of our assets. We can provide no assurances, however, as to the timing of our ultimate liquidation; as economic or market conditions may result in different holding periods. A property may be sold before or after the expected holding period if, in the judgment of our Advisor and the independent board, the sale of the property is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. 

Distribution Policy 

In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Distributions are authorized at the discretion of our board of directors based on its analysis of our performance over the previous periods and expectations of performance for future periods. These analyses may include actual and anticipated operating cash flow, changes in market capitalization rates for investments suitable for our portfolio, capital expenditure needs, general financial and market conditions, proceeds from asset sales and other factors that our board deems relevant. The board&#8217;s decision will be substantially influenced by its obligation to ensure that we maintain our federal tax status as a REIT. We cannot provide assurance that we will pay distributions at any particular level, or at all. We expect that any future distributions authorized by our board of directors will be periodic, special distributions as opposed to regular monthly or quarterly distributions. 

Historically, our board of directors declared distributions on a quarterly basis based on daily record dates, portions of which were paid on a monthly basis. During the first quarter of 2012, our board of directors determined to cease regular, monthly distributions in favor of payment of periodic special distributions. 

Since 2012, our board of directors has declared a total of $77.1 million, or $3.00 per share of common stock, in special cash distributions, of which $38.7 million was paid to stockholders in 2014 and 2015. On January 5, 2016, we paid $38.4 million in special cash distributions; this special cash distribution was declared on November 20, 2015 and is included in the total of $77.1 million of special cash distributions noted above. The special cash distributions paid during 2015 and 2014 were paid with a portion of proceeds from asset sales. We did not pay any distributions in 2013. 

We have paid, and may in the future pay, some or all of our distributions from sources other than operating cash flow. We have, for example, generated cash to pay special distributions from dispositions, the components of which may represent a return of capital and/or the gains on sale. In addition, from time to time, our Advisor may agree to waive or defer all or a portion of the acquisition, asset management, or other fees or incentives due to it, pay general administrative expenses or otherwise supplement investor returns, which may increase the amount of cash that we have available to pay special distributions to our stockholders. 

Future special distributions authorized and paid at the discretion of the board of directors, are expected to be funded with proceeds from asset sales. Therefore, future special distributions may exceed cash flow from operating activities or funds from operations. 

Competition 

We are subject to significant competition in seeking tenants for the leasing of our properties and buyers for the sale of our properties. The competition for creditworthy tenants is intense, and we have been required to provide rent concessions, incur charges for tenant improvements, and provide other inducements. Without these inducements, we may not be able to continue to lease vacant space timely, or at all, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We also compete with sellers of similar properties when we sell properties, which may result in our receiving lower proceeds from the sale, or which may result in our not being able to sell such properties at a sales price that will achieve our original return objective. We compete for buyers and tenants that may be suitable for us with many third parties engaged in real estate investment activities including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, hedge funds, governmental bodies, and other entities. Many of our competitors, including larger REITs, have greater financial resources than we have and generally may be able to accept more risk. They also may enjoy competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. 

Regulations 

Our investments are subject to various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations (including those of foreign jurisdictions), including, among other things, zoning regulations, land use controls, environmental controls relating to air and water quality, noise pollution, and indirect environmental impacts such as increased motor vehicle activity. We believe that we have all permits and approvals necessary under current law to operate our investments. 

Environmental 

As an owner of real estate, we are subject to various environmental laws of federal, state, and local governments. Compliance with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and management does not believe it will have such an impact in the future. However, we cannot predict the impact of unforeseen environmental contingencies or new or changed laws or regulations on properties in which we hold an interest. 

Employees 

We have no employees. The Advisor or other affiliates of Behringer perform a full range of real estate services for us, including asset management, accounting, legal, property management, and investor relations services. 

We are dependent on affiliates of Behringer for services that are essential to us, including asset management, other general administrative responsibilities and asset disposition decisions. In the event that these companies were unable to provide these services to us, we would be required to provide such services ourselves or obtain such services from other sources. 

Financial Information About Industry Segments 

Our current business consists of owning, managing, operating, leasing, developing, investing in, and disposing of real estate assets. We internally evaluate all of our real estate assets as one reportable segment, and, accordingly, we do not report segment information. 

Available Information 

We electronically file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports with the Securities Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). We also have filed with the SEC registration statements in connection with the Offerings. Copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained from our website at www.behringerinvestments.com &#32;or at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Access to these filings is free of charge. We are not incorporating our website or any information from the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

