 21 

business and our people, regardless of whether the allegations are valid. Such negative publicity may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including whether potential clients choose to engage us and our ability to attract and retain talent. 

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash in the future to service any future indebtedness. 

Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance any future debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, any future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund any future debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance such indebtedness. 

Our international operations are subject to certain risks, which may affect our revenue. 

In 2015, we earned approximately 20% of our revenues from our international operations. We intend to grow our non-U.S. business, and this growth is important to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients are non-U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S. businesses. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, which could include the following: 

&#149; greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; &#149; language and cultural differences; &#149; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results; &#149; unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; &#149; longer transaction cycles; &#149; higher operating costs; &#149; adverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; &#149; potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses; &#149; less stable political and economic environments; and &#149; civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If our international business increases relative to our total business, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results. 

Our growth strategy may involve opening or acquiring new offices and expanding internationally and would involve hiring new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices, which would require substantial investment by us and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 

Our ability to grow our advisory business organically depends in part on our ability to open or acquire new offices, expand internationally and hire new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices. We may not be successful in any efforts to open new offices, expand internationally or hire new Managing Directors and other senior professionals for these offices. The costs of opening a new office, expanding internationally and hiring the necessary personnel to staff the office are substantial. If we are not successful in these efforts, we may not be able to recover our investments or our substantial cost outlays, and new international operations may not achieve profitability. 

We may enter into new lines of business which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. 

We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from advisory transactions. However, we may grow our business by entering into new lines of business. To the extent we enter into new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with actual or perceived conflicts of interest because we would no longer be limited to the advisory business, the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, the required investment of capital and other resources and the loss of clients due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core business. 

Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for compensation, occupancy and equipment rentals, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization will be largely fixed, and we may not be able to timely adjust these costs to match fluctuations in revenue related to our entering into new lines of business. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results. 

Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our net revenue in other currencies (including euros and pound sterling), we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact, respectively, to our financial results. 

The cost of compliance with international broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally. 

Since we operate our business both in the U.S. and internationally, we are subject to many distinct broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or favoring or requiring local ownership. 

Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure 

Moelis &#38; Company's only assets are its partnership interests in Group LP, its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis &#38; Company Group GP LLC, and its interests in its subsidiaries, and Moelis &#38; Company is accordingly dependent upon distributions from Group LP to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. 

Moelis &#38; Company is a holding company, and its only assets are its partnership interests in Group LP, its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis &#38; Company Group GP LLC, and its interests in its subsidiaries. Moelis &#38; Company has no independent means of generating revenue. Moelis &#38; Company intends to cause Group LP to make distributions to its 

partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable, other expenses and dividends, if any, declared by us. 

Group LP is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Group LP (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Furthermore, certain subsidiaries of Group LP may be subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Group LP. Moreover, our regulated subsidiaries may be subject to regulatory capital requirements that limit the distributions that may be made by those subsidiaries. 

Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Group LP and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that Moelis &#38; Company requires funds and Group LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

We will be required to pay our Managing Directors for certain tax benefits we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with this offering and related transactions. In certain circumstances, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits we realize. 

Group LP Class A partnership units may be exchanged for shares of Class A common stock. On the date of our initial public offering in April 2014, we were treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having directly purchased Class A partnership units in Group LP from the then existing unitholders which resulted in an increase in the tax basis of the assets of Group LP that otherwise would not have been available. The exchange and purchases of Class A partnership units in Group LP in connection with the initial public offering and the secondary offering in November 2014, as well as future exchanges, may also result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Group LP that otherwise would not have been available. Such increases in tax basis are likely to increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent the increased tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") may challenge all or part of these tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge. 

We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with our Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to our Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (a) the increases in tax basis attributable to our Managing Directors and (b) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this tax receivable agreement. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Group LP attributable to our interests in Group LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Managing Directors could be substantial. 

Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our Managing Directors generally will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under 

the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. 

In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, our (or our successor's) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired Class A partnership units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control or early termination) would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, and, in the case of certain early termination elections, that any Class A partnership units that have not been exchanged will be deemed exchanged for the market value of the Class A common stock at the time of termination. Consequently, it is possible, in these circumstances also, that the actual cash tax savings realized by us may be significantly less than the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. 

If Moelis &#38; Company were deemed an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of its ownership of Group LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 

If Moelis &#38; Company were to cease participation in the management of Group LP, its interests in Group LP could be deemed an "investment security" for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act"). Generally, a person is deemed to be an "investment company" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Moelis &#38; Company has no assets other than its partnership interests in Group LP and its equity interest in the sole general partner of Group LP, Moelis &#38; Company Group GP LLC and its interests in its subsidiaries. A determination that this interest in Group LP was an investment security could result in Moelis &#38; Company being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and the price of our Class A common stock. 

We and Old Holdings have entered into various arrangements, including a master separation agreement, which contains cross-indemnification obligations of us and Old Holdings. 

The master separation agreement that we entered into with Old Holdings provides, among other things, that Old Holdings generally will indemnify us for losses that we incur arising out of, or relating to, the businesses conducted by Old Holdings and losses that we incur arising out of, or relating to, Old Holdings' breach of the master separation agreement. In addition, we generally will indemnify Old Holdings for losses that Old Holdings incurs arising out of, or relating to, our business and losses Old Holdings' incurs arising out of, or relating to, our breach of the master separation agreement. We may not be able to recover any or all of the amount of indemnified losses from Old Holdings should it be financially unable to perform under its indemnification obligations. In addition, we may be required to make substantial payments under our indemnity obligations to Old Holdings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 

The use of the "Moelis" brand name by Old Holdings and its subsidiaries may expose us to reputational harm that could adversely affect our business should they take actions that damage the brand name. 

Old Holdings operates as a separate legal entity, and we have licensed to Old Holdings and its subsidiaries the use of the "Moelis" brand name for certain purposes, including in connection with asset management activities. As Old Holdings and its subsidiaries historically have and will continue to use the "Moelis" brand name, and because we no longer control these entities, there is a risk of reputational harm to us if Old Holdings and its subsidiaries, among other things, have engaged, or in the future were to engage in poor business practices, or were to experience adverse results or otherwise damage the reputational value of the "Moelis" brand name. These risks could adversely affect our revenue and our business prospects. 

Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock 

Control by Mr. Moelis of the voting power in Moelis &#38; Company may give rise to actual or perceived conflicts of interests. 

Moelis &#38; Company is controlled by Mr. Moelis, through his control of Moelis &#38; Company Partner Holdings LP ("Partner Holdings"). Mr. Moelis' interests may differ from those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2015, Mr. Moelis controls approximately 94% of the voting interest in Moelis &#38; Company primarily through his control of Partner Holdings, which currently holds all outstanding Class B common stock. The shares of Class B common stock entitle Partner Holdings to (i) for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, ten votes per share and (ii) after the Class B Condition ceases to be satisfied, one vote per share. In addition, Moelis &#38; Company has entered into a stockholders agreement with Partner Holdings, pursuant to which, for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, Partner Holdings has certain approval rights over certain transactions. As a result, because Mr. Moelis has a majority of the voting power in Moelis &#38; Company and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for cumulative voting, he has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby to control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of Class A common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. Mr. Moelis is able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and is able to cause or prevent a change of control of Moelis &#38; Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of Moelis &#38; Company. Mr. Moelis' voting control could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of Moelis &#38; Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by Mr. Moelis over us, our agreements entered into with him prior to or in connection with our initial public offering may not have been negotiated on "arm's length" terms. We cannot assure you that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party. 

We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. 

Mr. Moelis, through his control of Partner Holdings, holds more than 50% of the voting power of our shares eligible to vote. As a result, we are a "controlled company" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (i) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and (ii) that the board of directors have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees composed entirely of independent directors. 

For at least some period, we intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors. Accordingly, although we may transition to a board with a majority of independent directors prior to the time we cease to be a "controlled company," for such period of time you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements set by the NYSE. In the event that we cease to be a "controlled company" and our shares continue to be listed on the NYSE, we will be required to comply with these provisions within the applicable transition periods. These exemptions do not modify the independence requirements for our audit committee, and we intend to comply with the applicable requirements of the SEC and the NYSE with respect to our audit committee within the applicable time frame. 

We are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. 

We are an emerging growth company and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to "emerging growth companies," including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2019. We will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (i) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering in April 2014, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock, and the price of our common stock may be more volatile. 

Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this accommodation, and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. 

Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price. 

As a publicly traded company, we are now required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley, which requires, beginning with the filing of our second annual report with the SEC, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, as an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) until we are no longer an emerging growth company. When applicable to us, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be 

unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the market price of our shares. 

The historical financial information in this Form 10-K may not permit you to predict our costs of operations. 

The historical financial information in this Form 10-K for the periods prior to our initial public offering in April 2014 does not reflect the added costs we incur as a public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result of these matters, among others, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. For more information on our historical financial information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the historical financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our Company or our sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. 

The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our Company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. 

Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. 

The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market as a result of and after the offering contemplated by our Registration Statement on Form S-3 Registration No. 333-203499 or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2016, we had outstanding 20,347,196 shares of Class A common stock, most of which may be resold immediately in the public market. In addition, holders of a significant amounts of Group LP Class A partnership units may elect to exchange their units and they may receive shares of our Class A common stock. Further, restrictions on sales of certain shares of Class A common stock by certain of our pre-IPO equityholders expired on April 22, 2015, and such shares are now eligible for resale from time to time, and employees who have received shares of Class A common stock upon settlement of restricted stock units are currently able to sell such shares, subject to any blackout periods we impose on employees and restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). On April 30, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation ("SMBC"), our strategic alliance partner, to permit SMBC, subject to the terms of the Group LP limited partnership agreement, to exchange half of its Group LP Class A partnership units (1,280,054 units) into Moelis &#38; Company Class A common stock on or after July 1, 2015 and the remaining 50% (1,280,053 units) on or after April 22, 2016. Existing Group LP Class A partnership unitholders (including certain Managing Directors) owned, as of March 1, 2016, an aggregate of 33,802,281 Class A partnership units. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of Class A partnership units in Group LP (other than those held by 

us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. Further, Partner Holdings held 31,227,596 shares of our Class B common stock, which will be convertible into 17,274 shares of our Class A common stock. Shares of Class A common stock (including those issuable upon exchange of Group LP partnership units) that are held by the Group LP Class A partnership unitholders (including our Managing Directors) will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual restrictions and to restrictions under the Securities Act. 

On June 8, 2015, the general partner of Group LP ("General Partner") completed the first redemption whereby certain holders of Group LP Class A partnership units elected to exchange on a one-for-one basis for our Class A common stock (an "Exchange") for a total issuance of 559,536 shares of Class A Common Stock. The General Partner has determined that the second Exchange will be on or about May 23, 2016, subject to the General Partner's discretion to postpone or cancel the redemption date. The number of units eligible for exchange on such date is up to 2,761,464 units, 2,560,107 of which are Group LP partnership units held by SMBC. Holders who elect to exchange may choose to sell or hold the Class A common stock. Units eligible for exchange exclude 31,013,699 units held by Managing Directors that they received as Managing Directors which units remain subject to lock-up provisions in three installments (which were equal installments at the time of our initial public offering) through each of the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversary of our initial public offering. The General Partner intends to establish redemption dates from time to time in the ordinary course in accordance with the terms of the Group LP limited partnership agreement and the Company does not intend to disclose future redemption dates. 

Certain Class A partnership unitholders in Group LP and holders of our Class A common stock are parties to agreements with us pursuant to which we have granted them registration rights. Under those agreements, these persons will have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock (including the shares they could acquire upon exchange of Class A partnership units in Group LP), subject to certain contractual restrictions. See "Exchanges of Group LP Class A Partnership Units For Moelis &#38; Company Class A Common Stock." 

The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. 

Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of our Class A common stock at or above the public offering price. 

While we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. 

On February 8, 2016, the Board of Directors of Moelis &#38; Company declared a special dividend of $0.80 per share in addition to a regular quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share. The $1.10 per share was paid on March 4, 2016 to Class A common stockholders of record on February 19, 2016. Although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time. Returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our Class A common stock. Whether we continue and the amount and timing of any dividends are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and agreements of the Company applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends, including their timing and amount, 

may be affected by, among other factors: general economic and business conditions; our financial condition and operating results; our available cash and current anticipated cash needs; capital requirements; contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders; and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. The reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. 

Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. 

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, there is no cumulative voting in the election of directors, and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors may be removed, with or without cause, only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that for so long as the Class B Condition is satisfied, directors may be removed, with or without cause, with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. See "Description of Capital Stock." 

