 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are an oncology company focused on the clinical development of novel therapies for cancer. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol &#147;MEIP&#148;.

Our business purpose is the development of drugs for the treatment of cancer. Our portfolio of drug candidates includes Pracinostat, an oral histone deacetylase (&#147;HDAC&#148;) inhibitor being developed in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (&#147;AML&#148;) who are &#179; 75 years of age or unfit for intensive chemotherapy and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (&#147;MDS&#148;). In August 2016, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license, development and commercialization agreement with Helsinn Healthcare SA (&#147;Helsinn&#148;) for Pracinostat in AML and other potential indications. Our clinical development portfolio also includes ME-401, an oral inhibitor of phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (&#147;PI3K&#148;) delta being developed for B-cell malignancies, and ME-344, a mitochondrial inhibitor that has shown evidence of clinical activity in refractory solid tumors. We own exclusive worldwide rights to ME-401 and ME-344. 

Clinical Development Programs 

HDAC Inhibitor Drug Candidate: Pracinostat 

Pracinostat is an orally available inhibitor of a group of enzymes called histone deacetylases, or HDACs. HDACs belong to a larger set of proteins collectively known as epigenetic regulators that can alter gene expression by chemically modifying deoxyribonucleic acid (&#147;DNA&#148;) or its associated chromosomal proteins. Abnormal activity of these regulators is believed to play an important role in cancer and other diseases. 

Pracinostat has been tested in multiple Phase I and Phase II clinical trials in advanced hematologic malignancies and solid tumor indications. The results of these studies suggest that Pracinostat has potential best-in-class pharmacokinetic properties when compared to other oral HDAC inhibitors, with side effects often associated with drugs of this class, the most frequent of which are fatigue and myelosuppression. 

Pracinostat has demonstrated clinical evidence of single-agent activity in patients with AML and myelofibrosis. In a Phase I dose-escalation trial in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies, 14% of the evaluable AML patients (two out of 14) achieved a complete remission (&#147;CR&#148;), with the responses enduring for more than 206 and 362 days, respectively. These results were presented at the American Society of Hematology (&#147;ASH&#148;) Annual Meeting in December 2010. In a Phase II clinical trial in intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, 36% of patients (eight out of 22) demonstrated a clinical response from Pracinostat treatment, with 9% of patients (two out of 22) having a clinical improvement (anemia response) and 27% (six out of 22) experiencing some reduction in splenomegaly. These results were published in the September 2012 issue of Leukemia Research . 

&#160;

Pracinostat has also shown evidence of synergistic activity when used in combination with the hypomethylating agent, azacitidine. Results from a pilot study in patients with advanced MDS presented at the ASH Annual Meeting in December 2012 showed an overall response rate of 89% (eight out of nine). The combination of Pracinostat and azacitidine was generally well-tolerated in the study; the most frequent side effects were nausea and fatigue. 

In June 2013, we initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical study of Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine in intermediate-2 or high-risk patients with previously untreated MDS. The study enrolled 102 evaluable patients, randomized one-to-one, at 19 sites in the U.S. In March 2015, we announced top-line data from the study, which showed that the addition of Pracinostat to azacitidine failed to improve the overall CR rate, the study&#146;s primary endpoint, compared to azacitidine alone. There were no new toxicities observed in the study; however fatigue, gastrointestinal toxicities and myelosuppression occurred more frequently in the combination group and resulted in a higher rate of drug discontinuations compared to azacitidine alone, predominantly within the first two cycles of treatment. Exploratory analysis of patients able to tolerate Pracinostat plus azacitidine for at least four cycles suggest superior activity of the combination compared to azacitidine alone, with hazard ratios for overall survival (0.59) and duration of response (0.48) both favoring the Pracinostat plus azacitidine arm. These data were presented at the ASH Annual Meeting in December 2015. 

In February 2014, the U.S. Food &#38; Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) granted orphan drug designation to Pracinostat for the treatment of AML. The designation provides orphan status to drugs defined by the FDA as those intended for the safe and effective treatment, diagnosis or prevention of rare diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S. Orphan designation qualifies us for certain development incentives, including tax credits for qualified clinical testing, prescription drug user fee exemptions and seven-year marketing exclusivity upon FDA approval. We also intend to seek orphan drug designation in the U.S. and Europe for Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of AML. 

In November 2014, we completed enrollment in our open-label Phase II study of Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine in elderly patients with newly diagnosed AML. The study enrolled a total of 50 patients at 15 clinical sites in the U.S. The median age in the study was 76 years. Patients received 60 mg of Pracinostat orally three times a week for three weeks followed by one week of rest and 75 mg/m2 of azacitidine via subcutaneous injection or intravenous infusion for the first seven days of each 28-day cycle. 

Results from this study were presented at the ASH Annual Meeting in December 2015. According to the oral presentation by principal investigator Dr. Guillermo Garcia-Manero, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 28 of the 50 patients in the study (56%) achieved the primary endpoint of CR plus complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (&#147;CRi&#148;) plus morphologic leukemia-free state (&#147;MLFS&#148;), including 21 patients (42%) who achieved a CR. Notably, 19 of the 21 patients who achieved a CR were still alive with a 100% one-year survival rate among all CR patients, indicating a correlation between CR and survival with this low-intensity therapy. 

Median overall survival for all 50 patients in the study was reached at 19.1 months. These data compare favorably to a recent international Phase III study of azacitidine (AZA-001; Dombret H et al. Blood. 2015 May 18), which showed a median overall survival of 10.4 months with azacitidine alone and a CR rate of 19.5% in a similar patient population. Median survival among patients with high-risk cytogenetics in this study (n=21) was 13.3 months, more than double the median survival of the high-risk population in the AZA-001 study (6.4 months). 

The combination of Pracinostat and azacitidine was generally well tolerated in the study, with no unexpected toxicities. The most common grade 3/4 treatment-emergent adverse events reported in &#62;10% of all patients included febrile neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia and fatigue. 

In August 2016, we announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed AML who are &#179; 75 years of age or unfit for intensive chemotherapy. In addition, agreement has been reached with the FDA on the proposed Phase III study design. According to the FDA, Breakthrough Therapy Designation is intended to expedite the development and review of drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions. The criteria for Breakthrough Therapy Designation require preliminary clinical evidence that demonstrates the drug may have substantial improvement on at least one clinically significant endpoint over available therapy. A Breakthrough Therapy Designation has all the benefits of the fast track program together with more intensive guidance on an efficient drug development program and an organizational commitment involving senior managers. 

In August 2016, we entered into an exclusive license, development and commercialization agreement with Helsinn, a Swiss pharmaceutical corporation, for Pracinostat in AML and other potential indications. Under the terms of the agreement, Helsinn is granted a worldwide exclusive license to develop, manufacture and commercialize Pracinostat, and is responsible for funding its global development and commercialization. As compensation for such grant of rights, we will receive near-term payments of $20 million, including a $15 million upfront payment and a $5 million payment upon the earlier to occur of (i) dosing of the first patient in the upcoming Phase III study of Pracinostat in newly diagnosed AML patients unfit to receive induction therapy, or (ii) March 1, 2017. In addition, we will be eligible to receive up to $444 million in potential regulatory and sales-based milestones, along with royalty payments on the net sales of Pracinostat. 

As part of the license, development and commercialization agreement, we will also collaborate with Helsinn to explore an optimal dosing regimen of Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of high risk MDS. This clinical study is anticipated to commence in the first half of 2017. 

&#160;

PI3-Kinase Delta Drug Candidate: ME-401 

In September 2013, we acquired exclusive worldwide rights to ME-401 from Pathway Therapeutics, Inc. for an undisclosed upfront cash payment with no future milestone or royalty obligations. Data from pre-clinical studies show ME-401 to be a potent and selective oral inhibitor of PI3K delta, a molecular target that plays a critical role in the proliferation and survival of certain hematologic cancer cells. ME-401 has a distinct chemical structure from certain other PI3K delta inhibitors, including idelalisib (marketed as Zydelig &#174; ). Data presented at the ASH Annual Meeting in December 2012 demonstrated that ME-401 has superior pre-clinical activity compared to idelalisib. 

Data from a first-in-human, single ascending dose clinical study of ME-401 in healthy subjects demonstrated on-target activity at very low plasma concentrations. In addition, the pharmacokinetic results suggest that ME-401 has the potential for a superior pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile and an improved therapeutic window compared to idelalisib, with a half-life that supports once-daily dosing. These results were presented at the American Association for Cancer Research (&#147;AACR&#148;) Annual Meeting in April 2016. In March 2016, the FDA approved our Investigational New Drug Application (&#147;IND&#148;) for ME-401 in B-cell malignancies. We expect to dose the first patient in a Phase Ib dose-escalation study of ME-401 in patients with recurrent chronic lymphocytic leukemia (&#147;CLL&#148;) or follicular non-Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma (&#147;fNHL&#148;) in the third quarter of calendar year 2016. 

Mitochondrial Inhibitor Drug Candidate: ME-344 

ME-344 is our isoflavone-derived mitochondrial inhibitor drug candidate. In preclinical studies, ME-344 has been shown to cause cell death in multiple human tumor cell lines, including ovarian cancer stem cells, by interfering with mitochondrial energy generation. 

Results from our first-in-human, single-agent Phase I clinical trial of ME-344 in patients with refractory solid tumors were published in the April 1, 2015 issue of Cancer . The results indicated that eight of 21 evaluable patients (38%) treated with ME-344 achieved stable disease or better, including five who experienced progression-free survival that was at least twice the duration of their last prior treatment before entry into the study. In addition, one of these patients, a heavily pre-treated patient with small cell lung cancer, achieved a confirmed partial response and remained on study for two years. ME-344 was generally well tolerated at doses equal to or less than 10 mg/kg delivered on a weekly schedule for extended durations. Treatment-related adverse events included nausea, dizziness and fatigue. Dose limiting toxicities were observed at both the 15 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg dose levels, consisting primarily of Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy. 

In May 2015, we announced new pre-clinical data from a collaboration with the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre in Madrid showing mitochondria-specific effects of ME-344 in cancer cells, including substantially enhanced anti-tumor activity when combined with agents that inhibit the activity of vascular endothelial growth factor (&#147;VEGF&#148;). These new data demonstrate that the anti-cancer effects when combining ME-344 with a VEGF inhibitor are due to an inhibition of both mitochondrial and glycolytic metabolism. An investigator-sponsored study of ME-344 in combination with the VEGF inhibitor bevacizumab (marketed as Avastin &#174; ) in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (&#147;HER2&#148;)-negative breast cancer opened for enrollment in August 2016. 

Scientific Overview 

Epigenetics Program 

HDACs play a key role in epigenetic regulation of gene expression by regulating chromatin structure. Acetylation of positively charged lysine residues present in histone proteins by the histone acetyltransferase (&#147;HATs&#148;) reduces the affinity between histones and negatively charged DNA, resulting in the opening of the chromatin structure. This makes it easier for the transcriptional machinery to access the DNA, enhancing RNA transcription. Conversely, deacetylation by the HDACs closes the chromatin structure leading to a repression of gene transcription. In normal cells, HDACs and HATs together control histone acetylation levels to maintain a balance. In diseases such as cancer, this regulation can be disturbed. HDAC inhibitors cause accumulation of acetylated histones, enhance transcription and result in changes of a variety of cellular responses including differentiation, proliferation, migration, survival and response to metabolic and hypoxic stress. In general, tumor cells are more susceptible than normal cells to the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of HDAC inhibitors. 

There are currently three HDAC inhibitors, one oral and two injectable, approved by the FDA for the treatment of T-cell lymphoma and a fourth HDAC (oral) approved for multiple myeloma. Other HDAC inhibitors are being evaluated in clinical trials as single agents and in combination with chemotherapy for various hematologic diseases, including AML, MDS and myelofibrosis, as well as for solid tumors. 

Pracinostat 

Pracinostat is an orally available, potent HDAC inhibitor with potentially improved physicochemical, pharmaceutical and pharmacokinetic properties when compared to other compounds of this class, including increased bioavailability and increased half-life. 

&#160;

Pracinostat has been tested in more than 300 patients in multiple Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and found to be generally well tolerated with manageable side effects often associated with drugs of this class, including fatigue, myelosuppresion and gastrointestinal toxicity. Results from a Phase I dose-escalation study, presented at the ASH Annual Meeting in December 2010, demonstrated clinical evidence of single-agent activity in patients with AML, including two CRs. In addition, data from a Phase II clinical trial of Pracinostat showed single-agent activity in patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. These results were published in the September 2012 issue of Leukemia Research . 

Pracinostat has also shown evidence of activity when used in combination with a wide range of therapies in clinical and pre-clinical studies. Pre-clinical data published in the May 2012 issue of Blood Cancer Journal demonstrated synergistic activity when Pracinostat was combined with Pacritinib, an experimental JAK2 inhibitor. In addition to the Phase II clinical studies in AML and MDS as described under &#147;Clinical Development Programs&#148; above, Pracinostat is currently being evaluated in a Phase II study in combination with ruxolitinib (marketed as Jakafi&#174; and Jakavi&#174;) in patients with myelofibrosis. The goal of this study is to learn if Pracinostat, when given in combination with ruxolitinib, can help to control myelofibrosis. The study, sponsored by the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, began enrollment in early calendar year 2015. 

Signaling Program 

ME-401 

The PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway is an important signaling pathway for many cellular functions such as cell survival, cell cycle progression and cellular growth. PI3Ks are a family of enzymes within this pathway that have been shown to play a critical role in the proliferation and survival of certain cancer cells. There are several isoforms of PI3K that are expressed in different types of cells. The PI3K delta isoform is believed to be important for survival of certain B-cell leukemias and lymphomas. 

In pre-clinical studies, ME-401 has been found to be a potent and selective oral inhibitor of PI3K delta, with a distinct chemical structure and evidence of improved pre-clinical activity compared to the approved PI3K delta-selective inhibitor, idelalisib. In March 2016, the FDA approved our IND for ME-401 in B-cell malignancies. 

Cancer Metabolism Program 

Our Company was originally formed to develop novel cancer therapeutics based on a group of compounds known as isoflavones. More than 400 new chemical structures were created based on the central design of these naturally occurring plant isoflavones. We believe that some of these synthetic compounds, including our drug candidate ME-344, interact with specific enzyme targets, resulting in the inhibition of tumor cell metabolism, a function critical for the survival of cancer cells. 

ME-344 

ME-344 is the active metabolite of a first generation compound, named NV-128. The proposed target for NV-128 and ME-344 is found in the tumor cell mitochondria, the specialized area in the cell that produces energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (&#147;ATP&#148;). When these compounds interact with their target, a rapid reduction in ATP occurs, which leads to a cascade of biochemical events within the cell and ultimately to cell death. One outcome that is believed to be critical for cell death induction by ME-344 is the disruption of both mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR1 and mTOR2) pathways. In cancer cells, the mTOR protein is involved in enhancing tumor growth and may be associated with resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. Inhibition of both mTOR pathways appears to shut down many of the cellular survival pathways of cancer cells. 

ME-344 has demonstrated broad activity against a panel of human cancer cell lines both as a single agent and as a chemosensitizing agent. Results from laboratory research studies conducted in collaboration with the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences at the Yale School of Medicine demonstrate that NV-128 and ME-344 are active against chemotherapy-resistant ovarian tumor stem cells. In April 2011, at the AACR Annual Meeting, researchers from the Yale School of Medicine presented pre-clinical data demonstrating the ability of NV-128 to induce mitochondrial instability, ultimately leading to cell death in chemotherapy-resistant ovarian cancer stem cells. This cell death was associated with the activation of the MEK/ERK pathway leading to mitochondrial depolarization and DNA fragmentation. The study further characterized the mechanism of action of NV-128 and demonstrated that NV-128 also promotes a state of cellular starvation, resulting in the activation of the AMP kinase pathway, leading to inhibition of both mTOR pathways and the induction of destructive autophagy. In April 2013, new data were presented at the AACR Annual Meeting showing the ability of ME-344 to decrease tumor burden and delay recurrence in a pre-clinical in vivo model of recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. 

In a paper published in the February 2015 issue of the American Journal of Cancer Research , our collaborators at the MIMR-PHI Institute of Medical Research in Melbourne identified mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation complex I as a direct molecular target of ME-344, with the inhibition of this complex causing an immediate reduction of mitochondrial oxygen consumption. This finding provides new understanding of how ME-344 induces cell death by disrupting mitochondrial metabolism. 

To gain further insight into its mechanism of action, researchers at the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston compared the activity of ME-344 in sensitive and naturally resistant lung cancer cell lines. In a dose dependent manner, ME-344 caused instantaneous and pronounced inhibition of oxygen consumption rates in drug-sensitive lung cancer cells, but significantly less in drug-resistant cells. Drug resistance correlated with higher glycolytic metabolism in these cells. These findings were published in the August 2016 issue of The Journal Of Pharmacology And Experimental Therapeutics . 

&#160;

In addition, using a well-characterized spontaneous breast tumor model, researchers at the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre in Madrid found that chronic treatment with the small molecule VEGFr nintedanib significantly diminished tumor cell glycolysis, however the growing tumor shifted to reliance on mitochondrial metabolism as its primary energy source. Subsequently, tumors primed by treatment with nintedanib showed substantially enhanced sensitivity to the mitochondrial inhibitor ME-344, with synergistic anti-tumor activity. These findings were published in the June 2016 issue of Cell Reports . 

Competition 

The marketplace for our drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which our drug candidates are being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized sooner. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our drug candidates may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. 

Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors developing oncology drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing, and marketing than we do. They compete with us in recruiting eligible patients to participate in clinical studies and in attracting development and/or commercialization partners. They also license technologies that are competitive with our technologies. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies or our drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. 

Intellectual Property 

We own, by assignment, worldwide rights to each of our current drug candidates. Our intellectual property portfolio includes approximately 17 issued U.S. patents, 130 issued foreign patents, nine pending U.S. patent applications and 39 pending foreign applications. 

We have acquired, by assignment, patents and patent applications from S*Bio relating to a family of heterocyclic compounds, which include Pracinostat, that inhibit histone deacetylases. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (&#147;USPTO&#148;) has issued five patents covering a number of these heterocyclic-based compounds, including Pracinostat, and their composition of matter, pharmaceutical compositions, and methods of use to treat proliferative diseases. The composition of matter claims covering Pracinostat are projected to expire in May 2028, not including patent term extension. On August 5, 2016, the Company entered into an exclusive license, development and commercialization agreement with Helsinn. The agreement has a term (the &#147;Term&#148;) commencing on the effective date and continuing, on a country-by-country basis, until the later of the date (i) of expiration of the applicable patents in such country, (ii) of expiration of regulatory exclusivity in such country or (iii) that is 15 years after the first commercial sale in such country. With respect to certain defined &#147;Tier 2&#148; countries, the Term is solely based on 15 years from first commercial sale. During the Term, the Company granted to Helsinn an exclusive (subject to certain retained rights to perform obligations under the agreement), sublicenseable, payment-bearing, license under and to certain patents and know-how controlled by the Company to develop, manufacture and commercialize Pracinostat and any pharmaceutical product containing Pracinostat for all human and animal indications. 

We have acquired, by assignment, patents and patent applications from Novogen, our former majority shareholder, which relate to a large family of isoflavonoid compounds, including ME-344. The USPTO has issued three patents covering ME-344, including its composition of matter, pharmaceutical compositions and methods of use to treat cancer. The composition of matter claims covering ME-344 are expected to expire in March 2027, not including patent term extension. 

We have acquired by assignment worldwide rights to ME-401 and other related compounds from Pathway Therapeutics, Inc. The USPTO has issued two patents covering the composition of matter and pharmaceutical compositions of ME-401 which are projected to expire in January 2031 and December 2032, not including any patent term extension. There are currently one U.S. and 19 foreign applications for ME-401 and related compounds pending. 

Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, compounds and information, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality, licensing and other agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We seek patent protection for our key inventions, including drug candidates we identify, routes for chemical synthesis and pharmaceutical formulations. There is no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue, or that any of our patents will be enforceable or will cover a drug or other commercially significant product or method. In addition, we regularly review our patent portfolio to identify patents and patent applications that we deem to have relatively low value to our ongoing business operations for potential abandonment. There is also no assurance that we will correctly identify which of our patents and patent applications should be maintained and which should be abandoned. The term of most of our other current patents commenced, and most of our future patents, if any, will commence, on the date of issuance and terminate 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the patent application. Because any marketing and regulatory approval for a drug often occurs several years after the related patent application is filed, the resulting market exclusivity afforded by any patent on our drug candidates and technologies will likely be substantially less than 20 years. 

&#160;

As most patent applications in the U.S. are maintained as confidential until published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office at 18 months from filing for all cases filed after November 29, 2000, or at issue, for cases filed prior to November 29, 2000, we cannot be certain that we, S*Bio, Novogen or Pathway Therapeutics, Inc. were the first to make the inventions covered by the patents and applications referred to above. Additionally, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind the actual discoveries. Moreover, pursuant to the terms of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, patents filed on or after June 8, 1995 have a term of twenty years from the date of such filing except for provisional applications, irrespective of the period of time it may take for such patent to ultimately issue. This may shorten the period of patent protection afforded to therapeutic uses of Pracinostat, ME-401 or ME-344, as patent applications in the biopharmaceutical sector often take considerable time to issue. However, in some countries the patent term may be extended. 

In order to protect the confidentiality of our technology, including trade secrets and know-how and other proprietary technical and business information, we require all of our consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into agreements that prohibit the use or disclosure of information that is deemed confidential. These agreements also oblige our consultants, advisors and collaborators to assign to us, or negotiate a license to developments, discoveries and inventions made by such persons in connection with their work relating to our products. We cannot be sure that confidentiality will be maintained by those from whom we have acquired technology or disclosure prevented by these agreements. We also cannot be sure that our proprietary information or intellectual property will be protected by these agreements or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or intellectual property. 

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and patents may have been applied for by, and issued to, other parties relating to products competitive with Pracinostat, ME-401 or ME-344. Use of these compounds and any other drug candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties, existing now and in the future. An adverse claim could subject us to significant liabilities to such other parties and/or require disputed rights to be licensed from such other parties. We cannot be sure that any license required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may encounter delays in product market introductions, or may find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses may be precluded. 

Research and Development 

The objective of our research and development program is the generation of data sufficient to achieve regulatory approval of our drug candidates in one or more dosage forms in major markets such as the U.S., to develop commercially attractive attributes, and/or to allow us to enter into a development and/or commercial relationship with another party. The data are generated by our pre-clinical studies and clinical trial programs. 

The key aspects of our research and development program are to provide more complete characterization of the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the relevant molecular targets of action of our drug candidates; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the relative therapeutic benefits and indications for use of our drug candidates as a monotherapy or as part of combinational therapy with other agents; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the most appropriate therapeutic indications and dosage forms for Pracinostat, ME-401 and ME-344. Our research and development expenses include clinical and preclinical study fees, personnel costs, and manufacturing costs. Research and development expenses were $13.4 million, $23.8 million, and $19.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Government Regulation 

U.S. Regulatory Requirements 

The FDA, and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries, regulate and impose substantial requirements upon the research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, labeling, manufacture, quality control, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, marketing, distribution and export of pharmaceutical products including biologics, as well as significant reporting and record-keeping obligations. State governments may also impose obligations in these areas. 

In the U.S., pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (&#147;FDCA&#148;) and other laws, including in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. We believe, but cannot be certain, that our products will be regulated as drugs by the FDA. The process required by the FDA before drugs may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pre-clinical laboratory evaluations, including formulation and stability testing, and animal tests performed under the FDA&#146;s Good Laboratory Practices regulations to assess pharmacological activity and toxicity potential; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission and approval of an IND, including results of pre-clinical tests, manufacturing information, and protocols for clinical tests, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin in the U.S.; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtaining approval of Institutional Review Boards (&#147;IRB&#148;), to administer the products to human subjects in clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for the product&#146;s intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; development of manufacturing processes which conform to FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;), as confirmed by FDA inspection; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission of results for pre-clinical and clinical studies, and chemistry, manufacture and control information on the product to the FDA in a New Drug Approval Application (&#147;NDA&#148;); and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of a NDA, prior to any commercial sale or shipment of a product. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

The results of the pre-clinical studies, together with initial specified manufacturing information, the proposed clinical trial protocol, and information about the participating investigators are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before we may begin human clinical trials in the U.S. Additionally, an independent IRB must review and approve each study protocol and oversee conduct of the trial. An IND becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND and imposes a clinical hold. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, the IND sponsor must resolve the FDA&#146;s concerns before clinical trials can begin. Pre-clinical tests and studies can take several years to complete, and there is no guarantee that an IND we submit based on such tests and studies will become effective within any specific time period, if at all. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase I: The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients and tested for safety and dosage tolerance. Absorption, metabolism, distribution, and excretion testing is generally performed at this stage. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase II: The drug is studied in controlled, exploratory therapeutic trials in a limited number of subjects with the disease or medical condition for which the new drug is intended to be used in order to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to determine the preliminary or potential efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases or medical conditions, and to determine dosage tolerance and the optimal effective dose. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase III: When Phase II studies demonstrate that a specific dosage range of the drug is likely to be effective and the drug has an acceptable safety profile, controlled, large-scale therapeutic Phase III trials are undertaken at multiple study sites to demonstrate clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete clinical testing of our products within any specific time period, if at all. Furthermore, the FDA, the IRB or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

Results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, as well as detailed information about the manufacturing process, quality control methods, and product composition, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of a NDA seeking approval to market and commercially distribute the product on the basis of a determination that the product is safe and effective for its intended use. Before approving a NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. If applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, the FDA may deny the NDA or require additional testing or information. As a condition of approval, the FDA also may require post-marketing testing or surveillance to monitor the product&#146;s safety or efficacy. Even after a NDA is approved, the FDA may impose additional obligations or restrictions (such as labeling changes, or clinical post-marketing requirements), or even suspend or withdraw a product approval on the basis of data that arise after the product reaches the market, or if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained. We cannot be certain that any NDA we submit will be approved by the FDA on a timely basis, if at all. Also, any such approval may limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. Any refusal to approve, delay in approval, suspension or withdrawal of approval, or restrictions on indicated uses could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects. 

Each NDA must be accompanied by a user fee, pursuant to the requirements of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (&#147;PDUFA&#148;), and its amendments. According to the FDA&#146;s fee schedule, effective on October 1, 2015 the user fee for an application requiring clinical data, such as a NDA, is $2,374,200. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for prescription drugs and biologics ($114,450), and an annual establishment fee ($585,200) on facilities used to manufacture prescription drugs and biologics. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. Effective on October 1, 2016, the user fee for an application requiring clinical data, such as a NDA, will decrease to $2,038,100, the annual product fee for prescription drugs and biologics will decrease to $97,750, and the annual establishment fee on facilities used to manufacture prescription drugs and biologics will increase to $512,200. A written request can be submitted for a waiver for the application fee for the first human drug application that is filed by a small business, but there are no waivers for product or establishment fees. We are not at the stage of development with our products where we are subject to these fees, but they are significant expenditures that may be incurred in the future and must be paid at the time of application submissions to the FDA. 

Satisfaction of FDA requirements typically takes several years. The actual time required varies substantially, based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the pharmaceutical product, among other things. Government regulation imposes costly and time-consuming requirements and restrictions throughout the product life cycle and may delay product marketing for a considerable period of time, limit product marketing, or prevent marketing altogether. Success in pre-clinical or early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent marketing approval. Even if a product receives marketing approval, the approval is limited to specific clinical indications. Further, even after marketing approval is obtained, the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. 

&#160;

After product approval, there are continuing significant regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements, obligations to report adverse side effects in patients using the products, and restrictions on advertising and promotional activities. Quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs, and the FDA periodically inspects facilities to assess cGMP compliance. Additionally, post-approval changes in ingredient composition, manufacturing processes or facilities, product labeling, or other areas may require submission of a NDA Supplement to the FDA for review and approval. New indications will require additional clinical studies and submission of a NDA Supplement. Failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements may result in an enforcement action by the FDA, including Warning Letters, product recalls, suspension or revocation of product approval, seizure of product to prevent distribution, impositions of injunctions prohibiting product manufacture or distribution, and civil and criminal penalties. Maintaining compliance is costly and time-consuming. We cannot be certain that we, or our present or future suppliers or third-party manufacturers, will be able to comply with all FDA regulatory requirements, and potential consequences of noncompliance could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects. 

The FDA&#146;s policies may change, and additional governmental regulations may be enacted that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval of our products or affect our ability to manufacture, market, or distribute our products after approval. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of healthcare costs in the U.S. and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize future products will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other third-party payers. European Union member states and U.S. government and other third-party payers increasingly are attempting to contain healthcare costs by consideration of new laws and regulations limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs. Our failure to obtain coverage, an adequate level of reimbursement, or acceptable prices for our future products could diminish any revenues we may be able to generate. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. 

Our activities also may be subject to state laws and regulations that affect our ability to develop and sell our products. We are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, clinical, laboratory, and manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future, and the failure to comply may have a material adverse impact on our business prospects. 

The FDCA includes provisions designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs and biological products intended for treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for such conditions. These provisions set forth a procedure for designation of a drug as a &#147;fast track product&#148;. The fast track designation applies to the combination of the product and specific indication for which it is being studied. A product designated as fast track is ordinarily eligible for additional programs for expediting development and review, but products that are not in fast track drug development programs may also be able to take advantage of these programs. These programs include priority review of NDAs and accelerated approval. Drug approval under the accelerated approval regulations may be based on evidence of clinical effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. A post-marketing clinical study will be required to verify clinical benefit, and other restrictions to assure safe use may be imposed. We do not currently have fast track designation for any of our clinical programs. If we should seek such designation for any of our programs, however, we cannot be assured that it will be granted by the FDA. 

Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, a sponsor may obtain marketing exclusivity for a period of time following FDA approval of certain drug applications, regardless of patent status, if the drug is a new chemical entity or if new clinical studies were required to support the marketing application for the drug. This marketing exclusivity prevents a third party from obtaining FDA approval for an identical or nearly identical drug under an Abbreviated New Drug Application or a &#147;505(b)(2) New Drug Application&#148;. The statute also allows a patent owner to obtain an extension of applicable patent terms for a period equal to one-half the period of time elapsed between the filing of an IND and the filing of the corresponding NDA plus the period of time between the filing of the NDA and FDA approval, with a five year maximum patent extension. We cannot be certain that we will be able to take advantage of either the patent term extension or marketing exclusivity provisions of these laws. 

The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (&#147;BPCA&#148;), signed into law on January 4, 2002, was reauthorized and amended by the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 (&#147;FDAAA&#148;). The reauthorization of BPCA provides an additional six months of patent protection to NDA applicants that conduct acceptable pediatric studies of new and currently-marketed drug products for which pediatric information would be beneficial, as identified by the FDA in a Pediatric Written Request. The Pediatric Research Equity Act (&#147;PREA&#148;), signed into law on December 3, 2003, also was reauthorized and amended by the FDAAA. The reauthorization of PREA requires that most applications for drugs and biologics include a pediatric assessment (unless waived or deferred) to ensure the drugs&#146; and biologics&#146; safety and effectiveness in children. Such pediatric assessment must contain data, gathered using appropriate formulations for each age group for which the assessment is required, that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug or the biological product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug or the biological product is safe and effective. The pediatric assessments can only be deferred provided there is a timeline for the completion of such studies. The FDA may waive (partially or fully) the pediatric assessment requirement for several reasons, including if the applicant can demonstrate that reasonable attempts to produce a pediatric formulation necessary for that age group have failed. The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act signed into law on July 9, 2012, permanently renewed and strengthened BPCA and PREA. 

&#160;

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a &#147;rare disease or condition,&#148; which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances. Pracinostat has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of AML, but it may not receive orphan designation for other indications. We also intend to seek orphan drug designation in the U.S. and Europe for Pracinostat in combination with azacitidine for the treatment of AML. Our other products may not be eligible for orphan drug status or be designated as orphan drugs. Even if designated as orphan drugs, our products may not be approved before other applications or granted orphan drug exclusivity if approved. 

Foreign Regulatory Requirements 

Outside the U.S., our ability to market our products will also be contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities and compliance with applicable post-approval regulatory requirements. Although the specific requirements and restrictions vary from country to country, as a general matter, foreign regulatory systems include risks similar to those associated with FDA regulation, described above. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, marketing authorizations may be submitted either under a centralized or a national procedure. Under the centralized procedure, a single application to the European Medicines Agency (&#147;EMA&#148;) leads to an approval granted by the European Commission which permits the marketing of the product throughout the EU. The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain classes of medicinal products, but optional for others. For example, all medicinal products developed by certain biotechnological means, and those developed for cancer and other specified diseases and disorders, must be authorized via the centralized procedure. We assume that the centralized procedure will apply to our products that are developed by means of a biotechnology process or are intended for treatment of cancer. The national procedure is used for products that are not required to be authorized by the centralized procedure. Under the national procedure, an application for a marketing authorization is submitted to the competent authority of one member state of the EU. The holders of a national marketing authorization may submit further applications to the competent authorities of the remaining member states via either the decentralized or mutual recognition procedure. The decentralized procedure enables applicants to submit an identical application to the competent authorities of all member states where approval is sought at the same time as the first application, while under the mutual recognition procedure, products are authorized initially in one member state, and other member states where approval is sought are then requested to recognize the original authorization based upon an assessment report prepared by the original authorizing competent authority. Both the decentralized and mutual recognition procedures should take no longer than 90 days, but if one member state makes an objection, which under the legislation can only be based on a possible risk to human health, the application will be automatically referred to the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (&#147;CHMP&#148;) of the EMA. If a referral for arbitration is made, the procedure is suspended. However, member states that have already approved the application may, at the request of the applicant, authorize the product in question without waiting for the result of the arbitration. Such authorizations will be without prejudice to the outcome of the arbitration. For all other concerned member states, the opinion of the CHMP, which is binding, could support or reject the objection or alternatively could reach a compromise position acceptable to all EU countries concerned. The arbitration procedure may take an additional year before a final decision is reached and may require the delivery of additional data. 

As with FDA approval, we may not be able to secure regulatory approvals in Europe in a timely manner, if at all. Additionally, as in the U.S., post-approval regulatory requirements, such as those regarding product manufacture, marketing, or distribution, would apply to any product that is approved in Europe, and failure to comply with such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully commercialize any product. 

The conduct of clinical trials in the European Union is governed by the European Clinical Trials Directive (2001/20/EC), which was implemented in May 2004. This Directive governs how regulatory bodies in member states control clinical trials. No clinical trial may be started without a clinical trial authorization granted by the national competent authority and favorable ethics approval. New legislation to revise and replace the European Clinical Trials Directive is currently proposed by the European Commission and is under consideration by European Union institutions. 

Accordingly, there is a marked degree of change and uncertainty both in the regulation of clinical trials and in respect of marketing authorizations which we face for our products in Europe. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have the facilities or capabilities to commercially manufacture any of our products and product candidates. We are and expect to continue to be dependent on contract manufacturers for supplying our existing and future product candidates for clinical trials and commercial scale manufacturing of our product candidates in accordance with regulatory requirements, including current Good Manufacturing Practices. Contract manufacturers may utilize their own technology, technology developed by us, or technology acquired or licensed from third parties. FDA approval of the manufacturing procedures and the site will be required prior to commercial distribution. 

&#160;

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we had 23 employees, seven of whom hold a Ph.D. or M.D. degree. Other personnel resources are used from time to time as consultants or third party service organizations on an as-needed basis. All members of our senior management team have prior experience with pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical product companies. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the individuals needed. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Available Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website at www.meipharma.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

