 ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

&#160;

Introduction

Mueller Industries, Inc. (the Company) is a leading manufacturer of copper, brass, aluminum, and plastic products. The range of these products is broad: copper tube and fittings; line sets; brass and copper alloy rod, bar, and shapes; aluminum and brass forgings; aluminum and copper impact extrusions; plastic fittings and valves; refrigeration valves and fittings; fabricated tubular products; and steel nipples. We also resell imported brass and plastic plumbing valves, malleable iron fittings, faucets, and plumbing specialty products. Our operations are located throughout the United States and in Canada, Mexico, Great Britain, and China.

Our businesses are aggregated into two reportable segments:

&#183;

Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration: The Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment is composed of Standard Products (SPD), Great Lakes Copper Ltd. (Great Lakes), European Operations, and Mexican Operations. SPD manufactures and sells copper tube, copper and plastic fittings, line sets, and valves in North America and sources products for import distribution in North America. Great Lakes manufactures copper tube and line sets in Canada and sells its products primarily in the U.S. and Canada. &#160; European Operations manufacture copper tube in the United Kingdom, which is sold throughout Europe. Mexican Operations consist of pipe nipple manufacturing and import distribution businesses including product lines of malleable iron fittings and other plumbing specialties. The Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment sells products to wholesalers in the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), plumbing, and refrigeration markets, to distributors to the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, and to building material retailers.

&#183;

Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM): The OEM segment is composed of Industrial Products (IPD), Engineered Products (EPD), and Jiangsu Mueller&#8211;Xingrong Copper Industries Limited (Mueller-Xingrong), the Company's Chinese joint venture. The OEM segment manufactures and sells brass and copper alloy rod, bar, and shapes; aluminum and brass forgings; aluminum and copper impact extrusions; refrigeration valves and fittings; fabricated tubular products; and gas valves and assemblies. Mueller-Xingrong manufactures engineered copper tube primarily for air-conditioning applications; these products are sold primarily to OEMs located in China. The OEM segment sells its products primarily to original equipment manufacturers, many of which are in the HVAC, plumbing, refrigeration, and industrial markets.

Certain administrative expenses and expenses related primarily to retiree benefits at inactive operations are combined into the Corporate and Eliminations classification. 

Financial information concerning segments and geographic information appears under "Note 16 - Industry Segments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

New housing starts and commercial construction are important determinants of the Company's sales to the HVAC, refrigeration, and plumbing markets because the principal end use of a significant portion of our products is in the construction of single and multi-family housing and commercial buildings. Repairs and remodeling projects are also important drivers of underlying demand for these products. 

Mueller was incorporated in Delaware on October 3, 1990.

Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration Segment

The Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment includes SPD, which manufactures a broad line of copper tube in sizes ranging from 1/8 inch to 8 inch diameter that is sold in various straight lengths and coils. We are a market leader in the air-conditioning and refrigeration service tube markets and we also supply a variety of water tube in straight lengths and coils used for plumbing applications in virtually every type of construction project. Additionally, SPD manufactures copper and plastic fittings, line sets, and related components for the plumbing and heating industry that are used in water distribution systems, heating systems, air-conditioning, and refrigeration applications, and drainage, waste, and vent systems. Lastly, SPD imports and redistributes residential and commercial plumbing products. A major portion of SPD's products are ultimately used in the domestic residential and commercial construction markets.

This segment also includes Great Lakes, which manufactures copper tube and line sets in Canada, European Operations, which manufacture copper tube for distribution in Europe, and Mexican Operations, which fabricates steel pipe nipples and resells imported brass and plastic plumbing valves, malleable iron fittings, faucets, and plumbing specialty products to plumbing wholesalers, distributors to the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries and building materials retailers.

We acquired Howell Metal Company (Howell) on October 17, 2013, Yorkshire Copper Tube (Yorkshire) on February 28, 2014, and Great Lakes Copper (Great Lakes) on July 31, 2015. Howell manufactures copper tube and line sets for U.S. distribution while Yorkshire produces European standard copper distribution tubes. Great Lakes manufactures copper tube and line sets for distribution in Canada and the U.S. These acquisitions complement our existing copper tube businesses in the Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment.

We disposed of Mueller Primaflow Limited (Primaflow), our U.K. based plumbing and heating systems import distribution business, on November 21, 2014. This business was part of European Operations in the Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment.

&#160;

This segment markets primarily through its own sales and distribution organization, which maintains sales offices and distribution centers throughout the United States and in Canada, Mexico, and Europe. Additionally, products are sold and marketed through a complement of agents, which, when combined with our sales organization, provide the Company broad geographic market representation.

The total amount of order backlog for the Plumbing &#38; Refrigeration segment as of December 26, 2015 was not significant.

We compete with various companies, depending on the product line. In the U.S. copper tube business, domestic competition includes Cerro Flow Products LLC, Cambridge-Lee Industries LLC (a subsidiary of Industrias Unidas S.A. de C.V.), and KobeWieland Copper Products LLC, as well as many actual and potential foreign competitors. In the European copper tube business, we compete with several European-based manufacturers of copper tube as well as other foreign-based manufacturers. In the Canadian copper tube business, our competitors include Wolseley plc and Crane Plumbing, as well as other foreign-based manufacturers. In the copper fittings market, our domestic competitors include Elkhart Products Company (a subsidiary of Aalberts Industries N.V.) and NIBCO, Inc. We also compete with several foreign manufacturers. Additionally, our copper tube and fittings businesses compete with a large number of manufacturers of substitute products made from other metals and plastic. The plastic fittings competitors include NIBCO, Inc., Charlotte Pipe &#38; Foundry, and other companies. 

OEM Segment

The OEM segment includes IPD, which manufactures brass rod, nonferrous forgings, and impact extrusions that are sold primarily to OEMs in the plumbing, refrigeration, fluid power, and automotive industries, as well as to other manufacturers and distributors. We extrude brass, bronze, and copper alloy rod in sizes ranging from 3/8 inches to 4 inches in diameter. These alloys are used in applications that require a high degree of machinability, wear and corrosion resistance, as well as electrical conductivity. IPD also manufactures brass and aluminum forgings, which are used in a wide variety of products, including automotive components, brass fittings, industrial machinery, valve bodies, gear blanks, and computer hardware. Lastly, IPD serves the automotive, military ordnance, aerospace, and general manufacturing industries with cold-formed aluminum and copper impact extrusions. Typical applications for impacts are high strength ordnance, high-conductivity electrical components, builders' hardware, hydraulic systems, automotive parts, and other uses where toughness must be combined with varying complexities of design and finish. 

This segment also includes EPD and Mueller-Xingrong. EPD manufactures and fabricates valves and custom OEM products for refrigeration, air-conditioning, gas appliance, and barbecue grill applications, Mueller-Xingrong manufactures engineered copper tube primarily for air-conditioning applications. The total amount of order backlog for the OEM segment as of December 26, 2015 was not significant.

On August 16, 2012, we acquired 100 percent of the outstanding stock of Westermeyer Industries, Inc. (Westermeyer), located in Bluffs, Illinois. Westermeyer designs, manufactures, and distributes high-pressure components and accessories for the air-conditioning and refrigeration markets. 

On March 30, 2015, we acquired 100 percent of the outstanding stock of Turbotec Products, Inc. (Turbotec) with locations in Hickory, North Carolina and Bloomfield, Connecticut. Turbotec manufactures coaxial heat exchangers and twisted tubes for the HVAC, geothermal, refrigeration, swimming pool heat pump, marine, ice machine, commercial boiler, and heat reclamation markets.

On June 18, 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Sherwood Valve Products, LLC (Sherwood) with locations in Washington, Pennsylvania, Valley View, Ohio, and Brooklyn, Ohio. Sherwood manufactures valves and fluid control solutions for the HVAC, refrigeration, and compressed gas markets.

The acquisitions of Westermeyer, Turbotec, and Sherwood complement our existing refrigeration business. 

&#160;

IPD and EPD primarily sell directly to OEM customers. Competitors, primarily in the brass rod market, include Chase Brass and Copper Company, a subsidiary of Global Brass and Copper Holdings, Inc., and others, both domestic and foreign. Outside of North America, IPD and EPD sell products through various channels.

Labor Relations

At December 26, 2015, the Company employed approximately 4,104 employees, of which approximately 1,865 were represented by various unions. Those union contracts will expire as follows:

Location 

Expiration Date 

Port Huron, Michigan (Local 218 IAM)

May 1, 2016

Port Huron, Michigan (Local 44 UAW)

July 20, 2016

Port Huron, Michigan (Local 119 SPFPA)

April 1, 2016

Belding, Michigan

September 14, 2018

Wynne, Arkansas

June 28, 2018

Fulton, Mississippi

September 30, 2018

North Wales, Pennsylvania

July 31, 2018

Washington, Pennsylvania

July 25, 2016

Waynesboro, Tennessee

November 2, 2018

The union agreements at the Company's U.K. and Mexico operations are renewed annually. The Company expects to renew its union contracts without material disruption of its operations.

Raw Material and Energy Availability

A substantial portion of our base metal requirements (primarily copper) is normally obtained through short-term supply contracts with competitive pricing provisions (for cathode) and the open market (for scrap). Other raw materials used in the production of brass, including brass scrap, zinc, tin, and lead are obtained from zinc and lead producers, open-market dealers, and customers with brass process scrap. Raw materials used in the fabrication of aluminum and plastic products are purchased in the open market from major producers.

Adequate supplies of raw material have historically been available to us from primary producers, metal brokers, and scrap dealers. Sufficient energy in the form of natural gas, fuel oils, and electricity is available to operate our production facilities. While temporary shortages of raw material and fuels may occur occasionally, to date they have not materially hampered our operations.

Our copper tube facilities can accommodate both refined copper and certain grades of copper scrap as the primary feedstock. The Company has commitments from refined copper producers for a portion of its metal requirements for 2016. Adequate quantities of copper are currently available. While we will continue to react to market developments, resulting pricing volatility or supply disruptions, if any, could nonetheless adversely affect the Company.

Environmental Proceedings

Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a matter of high priority for the Company. Mueller's provision for environmental matters related to all properties was $0.1 million for 2015, $1.2 million for 2014, and $1.0 million for 2013. The reserve for environmental matters was $21.7 million at December 26, 2015 and $22.7 million at December 27, 2014. Environmental costs related to non-operating properties are classified as a component of other income, net and costs related to operating properties are included in cost of goods sold. We do not currently anticipate that we will need to make material expenditures for compliance activities related to existing environmental matters during the 2016 fiscal year, or for the next two fiscal years.

For a description of material pending environmental proceedings, see "Note 9 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Other Business Factors

Our business is not materially dependent on patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, or concessions held. In addition, expenditures for company-sponsored research and development activities were not material during 2015, 2014, or 2013. No material portion of our business involves governmental contracts. Seasonality of the Company's sales is not significant.

SEC Filings

We make available through our internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). To retrieve any of this information, you may access our internet home page at www.muellerindustries.com, select Investors, and then select SEC Filings.

