 Item 1. &#160; 

Business. 

&#160; 

The Company 

Merit Medical Systems, Inc. is a worldwide designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices used in a vast array of interventional and diagnostic medical procedures. Our mission is to be the most customer-focused company in healthcare. Each day we are determined to make a difference by understanding our customers&#8217; needs, and innovating and delivering a diverse range of products that improve the lives of people and communities throughout the world. We fundamentally believe that long-term value is created for our patients, employees, shareholders, and communities when we focus outward and are determined to deliver an exceptional customer experience. 

&#32;1 

Merit Medical Systems, Inc. was founded in 1987 by Fred P. Lampropoulos, Kent W. Stanger, Darla Gill and William Padilla. Initially we focused on injection and insert molding of plastics, and electronic and sensor-based technologies. Our first product was a specialized control syringe used to inject contrast solution into a patient's arteries for a diagnostic cardiac procedure called an angiogram. Since that time, our sales and product lines have increased substantially, both through strategic acquisitions and product expansion through internal research and development projects. 

Our business strategy focuses on four target areas as follows: 

&#8226; 

Enhancing growth and profitability through research and development, sales model optimization, cost discipline, and operational focus. 

&#8226; 

Optimizing our operational capability through lean processes, cost effective environments, and asset utilization. 

&#8226; 

Targeting high-growth, high-return opportunities by understanding, innovating and delivering in peripheral, cardiac, OEM and endoscopy business lines. 

&#8226; 

Maintaining a highly-disciplined, customer-focused enterprise guided by strong core values to globally address unmet or underserved healthcare needs. 

We conduct our operations through a number of domestic and foreign subsidiaries. &#32; Our principal offices are located at 1600 West Merit Parkway, South Jordan, Utah, 84095, and our telephone number is (801) 253-1600. See Item 2. &#8220;Properties.&#8221; We maintain an Internet website at www.merit.com. 

Products 

&#160; 

We design, develop, manufacture and market innovative medical products that offer a high level of quality, value and safety to our customers, as well as the patients they serve. Our products are used in the following clinical areas: diagnostic and interventional cardiology; interventional radiology; vascular, general and thoracic surgery; electrophysiology; cardiac rhythm management; interventional pulmonology; interventional nephrology; oncology; pain management; outpatient access centers; computed tomography ; ultrasound; and interventional gastroenterology. 

The success of our products is enhanced by the extensive experience of our management team in the healthcare industry, our experienced direct sales force and distributors, our ability to provide custom procedural solutions such as kits, trays, and procedural packs at the request of our customers, and our dedication to offering facility-unique solutions in the markets we serve worldwide. 

&#160; 

Our business is currently focused in three core areas: peripheral intervention, cardiac intervention, and endoscopy. 

Peripheral Intervention 

We manufacture and sell various products designed to alleviate patient suffering from peripheral vascular and non-vascular diseases. These technologies support minimally invasive treatment of disease in peripheral vessels and organs throughout the body excluding the heart. Our peripheral intervention business line is organized into product portfolios as follows: Access, Angiography, Intervention, Embolotherapy and Interventional Oncology. 

Peripheral Access Portfolio 

&#160; 

We offer a broad line of devices used to gain and maintain vascular access. These devices include an extensive line of Prelude&#174; sheath introducers and related products to provide clinicians with smooth, convenient, and less traumatic access to the patient's vasculature. Our newest Prelude product is the PreludeEASE&#8482; Hydrophilic Sheath Introducer. The PreludeEASE is designed to provide access to the radial artery while minimizing the potential for spasm with a hydrophilic coating that extends to the tip of the sheath. 

Peripheral Angiography Portfolio 

We market an extensive line of guide wires, inflation devices and diagnostic catheters for use in angiography procedures. Our diagnostic guide wires are used to traverse vascular anatomy and aid in placing catheters and other devices. Our pre-coated, high performance InQwire&#174; Diagnostic Guide Wires are lubricious and are available in a wide range of configurations to meet 

&#32;2 

clinicians' diagnostic needs. These wires provide enhanced maneuverability through tortuous anatomy. The Merit Laureate&#174; Hydrophilic Guide Wire has a consistent, lubricious coating intended to promote rapid catheter exchanges and minimize friction. 

&#32; In 2015, we launched a new line of Peripheral Performa&#174; catheters designed to meet the growing trends of transradial access, a procedure which uses the wrist as the entry point for cardiac catheterization and peripheral procedures rather than the more traditional femoral artery approach. 

We offer diagnostic catheters for use during peripheral angiographic procedures. Our diagnostic catheters include our Impress&#174; and the Performa&#174; lines of peripheral catheters. These catheters offer physicians superior performance in a variety of angiography procedures. 

For more than two decades, we have offered innovative inflation devices that accurately measure pressures during balloon and stent deployment. We offer the basixTOUCH&#8482; Inflation Device for one-handed preparation and priming for faster preparation time. Additionally, we offer the the BasixCompak&#8482; Inflation Device and the Blue Diamond&#8482; Digital Inflation Device featuring an angled gauge for better viewing. 

Peripheral Intervention Portfolio 

We have a broad line of interventional products, including drainage catheters and drainage access products, therapeutic products, support catheters, vascular retrieval devices and dialysis access products. On February 4, 2016, we acquired our newest dialysis access product, the HeRO&#174; Graft, from CryoLife, Inc. The HeRO Graft is a fully subcutaneous vascular access system that is intended for use in maintaining long-term vascular access for chronic hemodialysis patients who have exhausted peripheral venous access sites suitable for fistulas or grafts. 

&#32;The CentrosFLO&#174; Long-Term Hemodialysis Catheters anchor our chronic dialysis line. In 2015, we launched a new stiffening stylette with the CentrosFLO catheter to assist in over-the-wire catheter placements, allowing us to reach a broader physician population. We also offer the ProGuide&#8482; Chronic Dialysis Catheter, a &#8220;workhorse&#8221; catheter for chronic dialysis. 

We offer peritoneal dialysis catheters and accessories as part of our dialysis access product line, including the Flex-Neck&#174; and ExxTended&#8482; Peritoneal Dialysis Catheters, and Y-TEC&#174; Implantation Kits. Additionally, we have expanded our peritoneal dialysis portfolio to include a new implantation system for an over-the-wire catheter placement technique familiar to interventionists. 

The Prelude&#174; Short Sheath provides vascular access to dialysis grafts, along with our extensive line of micro access devices such as the MAK&#8482; and S-MAK&#8482; line of mini access kits. We also offer a wide range of guide wires, diagnostic catheters, therapeutic infusion systems and safety products that can be used during dialysis-related procedures. In addition, we offer the Impress&#174; 30 cm Fistula Catheters, which can be used by interventional nephrologists. 

Our One-Step&#8482; Drainage Catheter, Safety Paracentesis Procedure Tray (&#8220;SPPT&#8221;) and Thoracentesis and Paracentesis Set (&#8220;TAPS&#8221;) are designed to provide clinicians with safe, convenient and cost-effective methods for removing fluid accumulation. The Valved One-Step&#8482; Centesis Catheter and TAPS may also be used to remove excess fluid in the pleural space during a thoracentesis. 

The ReSolve&#174; Locking Drainage Catheter's unique, convenient locking mechanism is appreciated by clinicians and patients who comment on the enhanced comfort the catheter provides. We also offer a range of catheter fixation devices, including the StayFIX&#174; Fixation Device and the Revolution&#8482; Catheter Securement Device, which was designed to save time, enhance patient comfort and improve cost-effectiveness. We also provide a wide selection of accessories that complement our drainage catheters, including tubing sets and drainage bags. For non-vascular applications, we offer mini access kits (MAK-NV&#8482;) designed for easy visualization and quick access into the drainage area. For enhanced visibility, the kits feature an echo-enhanced needle and radiopaque marker tip on the introducer. 

We market an extensive line of products designed to treat clots that block the flow of blood in veins and arteries. Our therapeutic thrombolytic infusion systems include the Fountain&#174; Infusion System and the Mistique&#174; Infusion Catheter. These catheters are used to treat thrombus, or blood clots, in the peripheral vessels of the body, including native dialysis fistula and synthetic grafts. We offer standard and low-profile ASAP&#174; Aspiration Catheters, giving clinicians two options for the safe and efficient removal of fresh, soft emboli and thrombi from the vessels of the arterial system. 

&#32;3 

For crossing tight, difficult lesions, we market our line of Merit SureCross&#174; Support Catheters. Our SureCross catheters offer trackability, pushability and visibility utilized by physicians to cross partial and total chronic occlusions in the peripheral arteries. 

Our vascular retrieval devices are single-use products designed for foreign body manipulation and retrieval and can be used to retrieve inferior vena cava filters, reposition indwelling venous catheters, strip fibrin sheath formation, and assist in central venal access venipuncture. In 2015, our EN Snare&#174; Endovascular Snare System was enhanced and launched with a new robust delivery catheter and peel-away insertion tool to simplify the snare deployment process and increase reliability during use. We also offer the One Snare&#174; Endovascular Snare System. Both snare systems are offered in multiple sizes to accommodate a broad range of vessels throughout the body. 

Peripheral Embolotherapy and Interventional Oncology Portfolio 

In 2015 we launched a number of new peripheral devices and obtained expanded indications for use within the U.S. and Europe. In our interventional oncology portfolio, we received a 510(k) clearance from the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") for our QuadraSphere&#174; Microspheres allowing us to expand the indication for use to include the embolization of hepatoma. This new indication provides another treatment option for patients and physicians in their battle against primary liver cancer. In Europe, we received an expanded indication for use to market our HepaSphere&#8482; Microspheres with the chemotherapy drug, irinotecan. This new indication compliments our already approved doxorubicin indication in Europe and leads the way for additional regulatory filings in the future. 

We offer embolic microspheres and embolic delivery systems to provide for the reduction of blood flow within target vessels and for the targeted occlusion of blood vessels with or without drug delivery in the treatment of primary and metastatic liver cancer. We offer Embosphere&#174; Microspheres to treat symptomatic uterine fibroids, hypervascularized tumors, and arteriovenous malformations in the United States, Europe, and several other international markets. Additionally, in certain markets outside of the U.S. we now offer Embosphere Microspheres to embolize the prostatic arteries for the relief of symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia ("BPH"). 

We offer Bearing nsPVA&#174; Particles to treat symptomatic uterine fibroids, hypervascularized tumors, and arteriovenous malformations throughout the world. We offer HepaSphere&#8482; Microspheres in Europe, Brazil, and Russia and other emerging markets for drug delivery in the treatment of primary and metastatic liver cancer and QuadraSphere&#174; Microspheres for the treatment of hypervascularized tumor, embolization of hepatoma and arteriovenous malformations in the United States. 

We offer microcatheters for the controlled and selective infusion of diagnostic, embolic microspheres or particles, or therapeutic agents into vessels. Our primary microcatheter, the Merit Maestro&#174;, has a swan neck design to seat catheters in the vessel and to reduce the recoiling effect of the embolic agent as it is introduced. 

Cardiac Intervention 

We manufacture and sell various products designed to aid in the treatment of various cardiac conditions specific to interventional cardiology and electrophysiology including cardiac rhythm management ("CRM") and cardiac resychronization therapy ("CRT"). 

Our two program drivers in cardiac intervention during 2015 were the Think Radial&#8482; Program and Think Interventional CRT&#8482;. Think Radial is a global education program that provides clinicians with the tools needed to begin or further their transradial practice. The transradial practice uses the artery in the wrist as the entry point for either cardiac catheterization or peripheral procedures, rather than the more traditional femoral artery in the groin. In 2015, we hosted four Think Radial training courses at our headquarters for interventional cardiologists as well as interventional radiologists from across the US, Europe, and Canada. We also hosted programs for physicians from South America and South Africa. In 2015 we provided clinical education to over 220 health care professionals from around the world. 

The Think Interventional CRT training program showcases a new interventional approach to implanting left ventricle leads. This new approach utilizes new products and techniques to electrophysiologists who are relatively new to telescoping support catheters, subclavian vein venoplasty, and using snares to provide guidewire support. In 2015, our Think Interventional CRT training programs globally assisted with the training and education of over 200 electrophysiologists. 

Our Cardiac Intervention business line is organized between a variety of product portfolios which include: Access, Angiography, Hemostasis, Intervention, Custom Procedural Solutions, and Electrophysiology. 

&#160; 

&#32;4 

Cardiac Access Portfolio 

We offer a broad line of devices used to gain and maintain vascular access for cardiology procedures, including needles, scalpels, hemostasis devices, arm boards and sheath introducers. Our line of Prelude&#174; Sheath Introducers are designed to provide clinicians with quick and convenient access to the patient's vasculature. The PreludeEASE&#8482; Hydrophilic Sheath Introducer is our anchor product for cardiologists, designed to provide access to the radial artery while minimizing the potential for spasm with a hydrophilic coating that extends to the tip of the sheath. 

&#160; 

In an effort to provide a more complete offering for radial access procedures, we offer the Rad Board&#174; family of products. The Rad Board is designed to provide x-ray protection and radiation protection to physicians, provide a larger work space for physicians and an area for patients to rest their arms during radial procedures. 

Cardiac Angiography Portfolio 

For angiography procedures we market guide wires, fluid management and tubing, manifolds, syringes, transducers and diagnostic catheters. We offer the Performa&#174; line of diagnostic catheters for use in interventional cardiology procedures. These catheters offer physicians superior performance during a variety of angiography procedures. Our MIV&#8482; Radial Ventriculogram Pigtail Catheter addresses the difficulty in accessing the left ventricle from the radial artery when using standard femoral approach catheters. 

Cardiac Hemostasis Portfolio 

Catheterization for diagnostic and interventional cardiology procedures generally take one of two approaches, femoral or radial. We offer products to assist clinicians in obtaining and maintaining hemostasis following arterial catheterization by either approach. For hemostasis of the femoral artery, we offer the Safeguard&#174; Pressure Assisted Device and for hemostasis of the radial artery, we offer the Safeguard Radial TM . 

We have developed a broad line of clinically acclaimed hemostasis valves, MAP&#8482; Merit Angioplasty Packs and angioplasty accessories. Hemostasis valves connect to catheters and allow passage of additional guide wires, balloon catheters and other devices into the vasculature, while reducing the amount of blood loss during the procedures. Our hemostasis valve line includes the Honor&#174;, PhD&#8482;, AccessPLUS&#8482;, Access-9&#8482;, DoublePlay&#8482;, MBA&#8482;, PhD and the Passage&#174;. 

Cardiac Intervention Portfolio 

Since the introduction of the CCS&#8482; Coronary Control Syringe line in 1988, we have continued to develop innovative, problem-solving devices, accessories, kits and procedure trays for use during minimally invasive diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery and peripheral disease. We now offer a broad range of specialty syringes, including color-coded Medallion&#174; Syringes and the VacLok&#174; Vacuum Pressure Syringe. Additionally, we offer an extensive line of kits containing fluid management products such as syringes, manifolds, stopcocks, tubing, and disposable pressure transducers (Meritrans&#174;) for measurement of pressures within the vessels and chambers of the heart. The TRAM&#174; and TRAM-P&#8482; Manifolds with Integral Transducers combine a low torque manifold with the transducer. We also provide devices, kits and procedure trays designed to effectively and safely manage fluids, contrast media and waste during angiography and interventional procedures. The Miser&#174; Contrast Management System complements our comprehensive line of fluid management products used in angiography procedures. 

For more than two decades, we have offered an extensive, innovative line of inflation devices that accurately measure pressures during balloon and stent deployment. The basixTOUCH&#8482; Inflation Syringe offers clinicians one-handed preparation and priming for faster preparation time. The Blue Diamond&#8482; Digital Inflation Device features an angled gauge for better viewing. Additionally, our IntelliSystem&#174; and Monarch&#174; Inflation Devices (state-of-the-art digital inflation systems), as well as the BasixCOMPAK&#8482; Inflation Syringe, offer clinicians a wide range of features and prices. 

During coronary catheterization procedures, guiding catheters are used to access the heart. Our line of Concierge&#174; Guiding Catheters have an advanced braiding technology and proprietary polymer-blend shaft, which allow for an increased lumen size while maintaining exceptional backup support. 

Pericardiocentesis is a procedure in which fluid is aspirated from the pericardial sac (the sac enveloping the heart). Our pericardiocentesis kit is designed as an organized, ready-to-use, convenient tray to assist the clinician in draining fluid quickly from the pericardial sac. 

&#32;5 

For Angiography and Angioplasty procedures we offer the Ostial PRO&#174; Stent Positioning System, a medical-grade disposable guide wire system designed to provide consistent and precise stent implantation in aorto-ostial lesions during coronary or peripheral interventional procedures. Additional angiographic accessories include the Flow Control Switch&#8482;, an integrated, one-handed, single-channel switch designed with clinician and patient safety in mind. 

Cardiac Custom Procedural Solutions Portfolio 

Custom procedural solutions or CPS products are critical products used in angiographic procedures. Our CPS products consist of kits, packs and trays. Our ShortStop&#174; and ShortStop Advantage&#174; Temporary Sharps Holders address the potential safety issues associated with accidental needle sticks. Our extensive line of color-coded Medallion&#174; Syringes and the PAL&#8482; Pen and Label Medication Labeling System comply with the latest patient safety initiatives of The Joint Commission and are designed to help minimize mix-ups in administering medication. We also offer waste management products to help avoid accidental exposure to contaminated fluids. These include our Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;)-compliant waste disposal basins: the BackStop&#174;, BackStop+&#8482;, MiniStop&#174;, MiniStop+&#8482;, and DugOut&#174;. These products have been designed to complement other Merit devices and are included in many of our kits and procedure trays in order to make the clinical setting safer for both clinicians and the patients. 

Electrophysiology Portfolio 

We offer innovative solutions to address lead implantation and therapeutic delivery in the rapidly-expanding cardiac rhythm management and electrophysiology markets. 

CRM is the field of cardiac disease therapy that relates to the diagnosis and treatment of cardiac arrhythmias or the improper beating of the heart. Our CRM products include the Classic Sheath&#8482; Splittable Hemostatic Introducer System for the insertion of cardiac pacer leads for pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators. In 2015, we launched the Prelude SNAP&#8482;, which is a second generation splittable, hemostatic sheath providing an improved sheath-to-dilator transition and reduced break force. We also offer the Worley&#8482; Advanced LV Delivery System to aid in the insertion and implantation of left ventricular leads, which are wire electrodes inserted into the coronary sinus to the left lateral wall of the heart to pace the left side of the heart for heart failure patients. The Worley&#8482; Advanced LV Delivery System has been shown to reduce lead failure, improve target lead location and reduce procedure times. 

Electrophysiology ("EP ") is the study of diagnosing and treating the electrical activities of the heart. Common procedures include diagnostic EP studies and therapeutic ablation procedures designed to deter arrhythmia. We offer the HeartSpan&#174; Transseptal Needle, which is designed with a larger ergonomic handle, unique unibody needle design and optimal needle sharpness; the HeartSpan&#174; Transseptal Sheath, which features an improved hemostasis valve for reduced blood loss and air embolism, smooth sheath to dilator transition for easier transseptal crossing, and reinforced stainless steel tubing for excellent torque response. The HeartSpan&#174; Steerable Sheath Introducer is designed to reduce the risk of atrial wall perforation when navigating cardiac chambers. 

Endoscopy 

Our Endotek division, Merit Endotek, integrates advanced non-vascular stent technology with balloon dilators, inflation devices, guide wires, procedure kits, and other devices used by gastroenterologists ("GI"), endoscopists, pulmonologists, and thoracic and general surgeons. Merit Endotek has a dedicated marketing and sales organization serving these growing markets. 

Merit Endotek sells a variety of non-vascular stents, including AERO&#174; and AERO DV&#174; Fully Covered Tracheobronchial Stents. These fully covered self-expanding nitinol stents are used by interventional pulmonologists and thoracic surgeons to treat strictures and fistulae in the airways, and to offer palliation to patients suffering from strictures caused by cancer. The new AEROmini&#8482; fully covered bronchial stent was launched in the first quarter of 2015. The AEROmini's low-profile delivery system is designed to provide additional flexibility, and to aid in the accurate placement of stents in difficult airway anatomy. 

Merit Endotek's esophageal stents, the Alimaxx-ES&#8482; and the EndoMAXX&#174; Fully Covered Esophageal Stents, are used by interventional gastroenterologists, otolaryngologists and thoracic surgeons to palliate symptoms associated with malignant tumors and strictures affecting the esophagus, as well as to treat concomitant tracheoesophageal fistulae. The new EndoMAXX EVT&#8482; is an esophageal stent with a reflux control valve, and is currently only available for sale outside the United States. 

Merit Endotek's biliary stent systems are marketed under the Alimaxx-B&#174; brand name. The Alimaxx-B is used by interventional gastroenterologists to palliate symptoms associated with malignant tumors affecting the bile duct. Additionally, we sell a plastic biliary stent that is used to restore patency and relieve symptoms associated with strictures and blockages within the 

&#32;6 

biliary system. These stents are often used to &#8220;stage&#8221; treatment of malignant tumors such as pancreatic cancer and other serious conditions. 

Merit Endotek's new esophageal balloon dilator, the Elation&#8482; Fixed Wire Balloon Dilator, was introduced late in the fourth quarter of 2015, and is intended for use in adult and adolescent populations to endoscopically dilate strictures of the esophagus. This new device can be paired with Merit Endotek's BIG60&#174; Inflation Device. 

Merit Endotek's BIG60&#174; Inflation Device is a 60 mL device designed to inflate and deflate non-vascular balloon dilators while monitoring and displaying inflation pressures up to 12 atmospheres. Merit Endotek also offers Endotek-labeled versions of the BasixCOMPAK&#8482; and Monarch Inflation Device to customers in pulmonology, gastroenterology, and thoracic surgery. 

For non-vascular procedures we market the MAXXWIRE&#174; guide wire, our line of specialty guide wires that have pulmonology and gastroenterology applications. 

For endoscopy and bronchoscopy we offer a variety of kits and accessories for the endoscopy and bronchoscopy markets, for example the AEROSIZER&#174; tracheobronchial stent sizing device, the Brighton&#174; Bipolar Probe, the BiliQUICK&#8482; Cholangiography Rapid Refill Continuous Injection Kit, the TIO&#8482; Three-in-One combination oral airway, bite block and oxygen administration device, the Vaclok&#174; Negative Pressure Syringe, and the convenient BAL (bronchoalveolar lavage) Convenience Kit&#8482;. 

Specialty Procedure Products 

In addition to the procedures and devices detailed above, interventional radiology and other special procedure labs perform a variety of invasive diagnostic and interventional procedures. Our digital inflation devices, the IntelliSystem&#174;, Monarch and Blue Diamond&#8482; are used in discography, a technique used to determine whether a disc is the source of pain in patients with back or neck pain. 

We provide coating services for medical tubes and wires under OEM brands. We offer coated tubes and wires to customers on a spool or as further manufactured components like hypotubes, guide wire components, coated mandrels/stylets and coated needles. We have state-of-the-art hypotube manufacturing in Galway, Ireland, which features advanced laser cutting and ablation, passivation, cleaning and other hypotube manufacturing processes. Our Merit Hypotube TM &#32;is used as the catheter shaft in PTCA and PTA balloon catheters, as well as functional guide wires. 

Our sensor division manufactures and sells microelectromechanical systems (&#8220;MEMS&#8221;) pressure sensor components focusing on piezoresistive pressure sensors in various forms, including bare silicon die, die mounted on ceramic substrates, and fully calibrated components for numerous applications. 

&#32;7 

Marketing and Sales 

Target Market/Industry. &#32;Our principal target markets are peripheral intervention, cardiac intervention and endoscopy. Within these markets our products are used in the following clinical areas: diagnostic and interventional cardiology; interventional radiology; vascular, general and thoracic surgery; electrophysiology; cardiac rhythm management; interventional pulmonology; interventional nephrology; oncology; pain management; outpatient access centers; computed tomography ; ultrasound; and interventional gastroenterology. 

According to U.S. government statistics, cardiovascular disease continues to be a leading cause of death and a significant health problem in the United States. &#160; Treatment options range from dietary changes to surgery, depending on the nature of the specific disease or disorder. Endovascular techniques, including angioplasty, stenting, and endoluminal stent grafts, continue to represent important therapeutic options for the treatment of vascular disease. We derive a large percentage of our revenues from sales of products used during percutaneous diagnostic and interventional procedures such as angiography, angioplasty, and stent placement, and we intend to pursue additional sales growth by building on our existing market position in both catheter technology and accessory products. 

In addition to products used in the treatment of coronary and peripheral vascular disease and in electrophysiology, we continue our efforts to develop and distribute other devices used in our target markets. For example, we have developed and are distributing products used for percutaneous drainage. Prior to the widespread use of computed tomography or ultrasound imaging, surgery was necessary to drain internal fluid from body cavities and organs. Currently, percutaneous drainage is frequently prescribed as the treatment of choice for many types of fluid collections. Our family of drainage catheters and associated devices are used by physicians in interventional radiology, vascular surgery and cardiology catheter lab procedures. 

As part of our embolic sales and marketing efforts, we attend major medical conventions throughout the world pertaining to our target markets and invest in market development (including physician training), practice building, referral network education and patient outreach. We work closely with major interventional radiology centers in the areas of training, therapy awareness programs, clinical studies and ongoing research. 

We also offer products to service the growing dialysis access market. These products are used in renal replacement therapies, including the treatment of acute renal failure, chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. Our hemodialysis access products include catheters and kits for interventional radiologists and interventional nephrologists. Our family of peritoneal dialysis products is designed to support specific implantation techniques for interventional radiologists, interventional nephrologists and laparoscopic surgeons. We also offer a variety of products for dialysis access interventions for these customers. 

We believe the development of Merit Endotek and the move into the areas of interventional gastroenterology, pulmonology and thoracic surgery will open up new opportunities to sell our existing products, such as inflation devices, syringes, centesis catheters and procedure kits to those markets, but will also provide additional products incorporating our non-vascular stent and guide wire technology. 

In general, our target markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. We plan to continue to develop and launch innovative products to support clinical trends and to address the increasing demands of these markets. 

Marketing Strategy. Our marketing strategy is focused on identifying and introducing a regular flow of profitable products that meet customer needs. In order to stay abreast of customer needs, we frequently seek suggestions from health care professionals working in multiple fields of medicine, including diagnostic and interventional cardiology, interventional radiology, vascular surgery, electrophysiology, cardiac rhythm management, interventional pulmonology, interventional nephrology, oncology, pain management, outpatient access centers, computed tomography , ultrasound, interventional gastroenterology, thoracic surgery and interventional pulmonology. Suggestions for new products and product improvements may also come from engineers, sales people, physicians and technicians who perform clinical procedures. 

When we determine that a product suggestion demonstrates a sustainable competitive advantage, meets customer needs, fits strategically and technologically with our business and has a good potential financial return, we generally assemble a &#8220;project team&#8221; comprised of individuals from our sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, legal, and quality assurance departments. This team works to identify the customer requirements, integrate the design, compile necessary documentation and testing, and prepare the product for market introduction. We believe that one of our marketing strengths is our capacity to rapidly conceive, design, develop and introduce new products. 

&#32;8 

U.S. and International Sales. Sales of our products in the U.S. accounted for 61%, 61% and 63% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In the U.S. we have a dedicated, direct corporate sales organization primarily focused on selling to end user physicians, hospitals and clinics, major buying groups, and integrated healthcare networks. 

Internationally, we have direct sales representatives and have contracted with independent dealer organizations and custom procedure tray manufacturers to distribute our products worldwide, including territories in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia, South and Central America, Oceania, and Canada. In 2015, our international sales grew approximately 7.9% over our 2014 international sales, and accounted for approximately $214.0 million, or 39% of our total sales. Merit Endotek has a growing domestic presence and a presence in international markets. With the recent and planned additions to our product lines, we believe our international sales will continue to increase. 

We require our international dealers to inventory products and sell directly to customers within defined sales territories. Each of our products must be approved for sale under the laws of the country in which it is sold. International dealers are responsible for compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in their respective countries. 

We consider training to be a critical factor in the success of our direct sales force. Our sales representatives are trained by our clinical marketers, our staff professionals, consulting physicians, and senior field trainers in their respective territories. 

OEM Sales. Our global OEM division sells components and finished devices, including molded components, sub-assembled goods, custom kits, and bulk non-sterile goods, to medical device manufacturers. These products may be combined with other components and/or products from other companies and sold under a Merit or third-party label. Products sold by the OEM division can be customized and enhanced to customer specifications, including packaging, labeling and a variety of physical modifications. The OEM division serves customers with a staff of regional sales representatives based in the U.S., Europe and Asia, and a dedicated OEM Engineering and Customer Service Group. 

Customers 

We provide products to hospitals and clinic-based cardiologists, radiologists, neurologists, nephrologists, vascular surgeons, interventional gastroenterologists and pulmonologists, thoracic surgeons, physiatrists (pain management physicians), general surgeons, thoracic surgeons, oncologists, electrophysiologists, technicians, and nurses. Hospitals and acute care facilities in the United States generally purchase our products through our direct sales force, distributors, OEM partners, and custom procedure tray manufacturers who assemble and combine our products in custom kits and packs. Outside the United States, hospitals and acute care facilities generally purchase our products through our direct sales force, or, in the absence of a sales force, through independent distributors or OEM partners. 

In 2015, our U.S. sales force made approximately 42% of our sales directly to U.S. hospitals (including three percent of our total sales for Merit Endotek) and approximately seven percent of our sales through other channels such as U.S. custom procedure tray manufacturers and distributors. We also sell products to other medical device companies through our U.S. OEM sales force, which accounted for approximately 15% of our 2015 sales. Approximately 39% of our 2015 sales were made to international markets by our direct sales force, international distributors, and our OEM sales force. Sales to our largest customer accounted for approximately three percent of total sales during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development operations have been central to our historical growth, and we believe they will be critical to our continued growth. In 2015, our commitment to innovation led to the introduction of several new products, enhancements to our existing products and expansion of our product lines, as well as improvements to our manufacturing processes and equipment. 

Our research and development expenses were approximately $40.8 million, $36.6 million, and $33.9 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

We continue to develop new products and make improvements to our existing products utilizing many different sources. Our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President of Research and Development work closely with our sales and marketing teams to incorporate feedback from physicians and clinicians in the field, which can lead to innovative new products and improvements to our existing products. 

Currently we have research and development facilities in: 

&#8226; 

Dallas, Texas 

&#8226; 

Galway, Ireland 

&#32;9 

&#8226; 

Jackson Township, New Jersey 

&#8226; 

Malvern, Pennsylvania 

&#8226; 

Paris, France 

&#8226; 

Pearland, Texas 

&#8226; 

South Jordan, Utah 

&#8226; 

Venlo, The Netherlands 

Manufacturing 

We manufacture many of our products utilizing our proprietary technology and our expertise in plastic injection and insert molding. We generally contract with third parties for the tooling of our molds, but we design and own most of our molds. We utilize our experience in injection and insert molding technologies in the manufacture of most of the custom components used in our products. We have received International Standards Organization (&#8220;ISO&#8221;) 13485:2003 certification for our facilities in Utah, Texas, Virginia, Pennsylvania, The Netherlands, Ireland, France and Mexico. We have also received ISO 9001:2008 certification for our Merit Sensor Systems, Inc. (&#8220;Merit Sensors&#8221;) facility in South Jordan, Utah. 

We either assemble the electronic monitors and sensors used in our IntelliSystem and Monarch inflation devices from standard electronic components or purchase them from third-party suppliers. Merit Sensors develops and markets silicon pressure sensors. Merit Sensors presently supplies all of the sensors we utilize in our digital inflation devices and blood pressure transducers. 

We currently produce and package all of our embolics. Manufacturing of our embolic products includes the synthesis and processing of raw materials and third-party manufactured compounds. 

Our products are manufactured at several factories, including facilities located in South Jordan and West Jordan, Utah; Malvern, Pennsylvania; Galway, Ireland; Venlo, The Netherlands; Paris, France; Pearland, Texas; Tijuana, Mexico; and Chester, Virginia. See Item 2. &#8220;Properties.&#8221; 

We have distribution centers located in South Jordan, Utah; Chester, Virginia; Malvern, Pennsylvania; Beijing and Hong Kong, China; Maastricht, The Netherlands; Melbourne, Australia; Ontario, Canada and Joinville, Brazil. 

We believe that our variety of suppliers for raw materials and components necessary for the manufacture of our products, as well as our long-term relationships with such suppliers, promote stability in our manufacturing processes. Historically, we have not been materially affected by interruptions with such suppliers; however, we are experiencing a growing trend from suppliers of polymer resins to refuse to supply resin to medical device manufacturers or require that we assume additional risks due to the potential for products liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience supply disruptions in the future. We seek to develop relationships with potential back-up suppliers for materials and components in the event of supply interruptions. 

Competition 

We compete in several global markets, including diagnostic and interventional cardiology; interventional radiology; vascular, general and thoracic surgery; electrophysiology; cardiac rhythm management; interventional pulmonology; interventional nephrology; oncology; pain management; outpatient access centers; computed tomography ; ultrasound; and interventional gastroenterology. 

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which our products are sold are quality, price, value, device features, customer service, breadth of line, and customer relationships. We believe our products have achieved market acceptance primarily due to the quality of materials and workmanship of our products, their innovative design, our willingness to customize our products to fit customer needs, and our prompt attention to customer requests. Our products are priced competitively, but generally not below prices for competing products. Some of our primary competitive strengths are our relative stability in the marketplace; a comprehensive, broad line of ancillary products; and our history of introducing a variety of new products and product line extensions to the market on a regular basis. 

In the interventional cardiology and radiology markets, as well as the gastroenterology and pulmonology markets, we compete with large international, multi-divisional medical supply companies such as Cordis Corporation (Cardinal Health), Boston Scientific Corporation, Medtronic, St. Jude Medical, C.R. Bard, Abbott Laboratories, Teleflex, Cook Incorporated, and Terumo Corporation. Medium-size companies we compete with include Vascular Solutions, B. Braun, Olympus, Edwards Lifesciences, Argon Medical Devices, AngioDynamics, Medcomp, and ICU Medical. 

Based on available industry data, with respect to the number of procedures performed, we believe we are the leading provider of digital inflation technology in the world. In addition, we believe we are one of the market leaders in the United States 

&#32;10 

for inflation devices, hemostasis devices and torque devices. We believe we are a market leader in the United States for control syringes, waste-disposal systems, tubing and manifold kits . &#32;We anticipate the recent and planned additions to our product lines will enable us to compete even more effectively in both the U.S. and international markets. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing competitive advantages or compete successfully in the future. 

We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from sales of products used in diagnostic angiography, interventional cardiology and radiology procedures. We believe medical professionals are starting to use new interventional methods, procedures and devices, as well as drugs, for the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease. These new methods, procedures, devices and drugs may render some of our products obsolete or limit the markets for our products. However, with the advent of vascular stents and other procedures, we have experienced continued growth in sales of our products. 

Within the field of uterine fibroid embolization ("UFE"), we believe we are the market share leader and one of only three companies in the United States to have embolic products specifically indicated for use in UFE. Based on both research and clinical studies conducted on our product for UFE, we believe we offer physicians consistent and predictable product performance, ease of use, targeted delivery, and durable vessel occlusion, and therefore satisfactory short- and long-term clinical outcomes validated by peer-reviewed publications, when compared to our competitors. 

Our primary competitive embolotherapy product has been Embosphere Microspheres. Currently, the primary products with which our microspheres and embolic particles compete are Beadblock&#174; and DC Bead&#174;, sold by BTG, plc; Embozene&#8482; and Contour&#174; sold by Boston Scientific, Inc; PVA Foam Embolization Particles, sold by Cook Medical; HydroPearl&#174;, sold by Terumo International Systems ("Terumo"); and Gelfoam&#174;, sold by Pfizer Inc. Our principal competitors in UFE are BTG, plc, Boston Scientific and Terumo, as well as companies selling or developing non-embolotherapy solutions to treat uterine fibroids. 

Proprietary Rights and Litigation 

Our intellectual property and licenses thereto are protected by patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyright, and confidentiality agreements. We have a number of U.S. and foreign-issued patents and pending patent applications, including patents and rights to patent applications acquired through strategic transactions, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 20 years from the date of filing of the patent. As of December 31, 2015, we owned or had a license to more than 700 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. In the aggregate, our patents are critical to our business, but no single patent is of material importance to our business. 

Merit and the Merit logo are trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to Merit and the Merit logo, we have used, registered or applied for registration of other specific trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries. See &#8220;Products&#8221; above. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country; in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use. We have received over 300 U.S. and foreign trademark registrations, and other U.S. and foreign trademark applications are currently pending. 

There is substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. We have been required, and may in the future, be required to defend against claims and actions alleging infringement of the intellectual rights of others. If a court rules against us in any patent litigation we could be subject to significant liabilities, be forced to seek licenses from third parties, or be prevented from marketing certain products. 

Regulation 

U.S. Regulation. &#32;The FDA and other federal, state and local authorities regulate our products and product-related activities. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (&#8220;FDCA&#8221;) and accompanying regulations, the FDA regulates the design, development, clinical trials, testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and promotion of medical devices. We believe our products and procedures are in material compliance with all applicable FDA regulations, but the regulations are subject to change. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that these changes might have on our business. In addition, if we experience regulatory problems with a product or manufacturer, we could become subject to fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

FDA Premarket Review. &#32;In general, we cannot introduce a new medical device into the market until we obtain market clearance through a 510(k) premarket notification or approval through a premarket approval (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) application. Some devices, 

&#32;11 

typically lower-risk devices, are subject to specific exemptions from premarket review. In addition, in limited cases devices may come to the market through alternative procedures, such as a humanitarian device exemption (&#8220;HDE&#8221;). 

The 510(k) clearance procedure usually takes between three months and one year from the date a 510(k) notification is submitted, but it may take longer. The FDA may find that substantial equivalence has not been shown and, as a result, require additional clinical or non-clinical testing to support a 510(k) or require a PMA application. 

If the FDA approves the PMA application, it may place restrictions on the device. If the FDA's evaluation of the PMA application is not favorable, the FDA may deny approval of the PMA application or issue a &#8220;not approvable&#8221; letter. The FDA may also require additional testing or clinical trials prior to approval or as a condition of approval. The PMA application process can be expensive, generally takes several years to complete and typically includes, among other things, human clinical trials, manufacturing facility inspection, bench tests, and laboratory and animal studies, which can be costly to conduct. There is also a substantial &#8220;user fee&#8221; that must be paid to FDA in connection with the submission of each PMA application. After a PMA application is approved, if significant changes are made to a device, its manufacturing or labeling, a PMA supplement containing additional information must be filed for prior FDA approval. PMA supplements often must be approved by the FDA before the modification to the device, the labeling, or the manufacturing process may be implemented. The FDA may determine that additional information, including clinical data, be submitted before a determination is made, which could significantly delay the introduction of new or modified devices. 

If human clinical trials of a medical device are required for FDA clearance or approval and the device presents a significant risk, the sponsor of the trial must file an investigational device exemption (&#8220;IDE&#8221;) application with the FDA prior to commencing human clinical trials in the USA. We, the FDA, or an independent committee designated to monitor biomedical research, known as an institutional review board, may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Submission of an IDE application does not ensure that the FDA will issue the IDE. If the IDE application is approved, there can be no assurance the FDA will determine that the data derived from the trials support the safety and effectiveness of the device or warrant the continuation of clinical trials. An IDE supplement must be approved by the FDA before a sponsor or investigator may make a change to the investigational plan in such a way that may affect its scientific soundness, study indication or the rights, safety or welfare of human subjects. 

The FDA clearance and approval processes for medical devices are expensive, uncertain and lengthy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for any product on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

We are currently conducting a clinical trial in an effort to obtain PMA approval from the FDA to claim the use of the QuadraSphere &#32; Microspheres with doxorubicin for the treatment of liver cancer in the United States. We are also conducting clinical trials to obtain FDA PMA approval to claim the use of our Embosphere Microspheres for the indication of prostate artery embolization, and 510(k) clearance for the use of our EndoMAXX EVT Valved Esophageal Stent to relieve dysphagia in patients with malignant stricture of the esophagus. In order for us to obtain FDA approval or clearance to promote the use of QuadraSphere Microspheres, Embosphere Microspheres, and the EndoMAXX EVT Valved Esophageal Stent for the purposes indicated in our clinical trials, we will need to complete those trials and submit positive clinical data to the FDA. If we cannot enroll study subjects in sufficient numbers to complete the necessary studies, if there is a disruption in the supply of materials for the trials or depending on other factors, we will likely not be able to complete those trials. Even if we complete any or all of the three clinical trials, the FDA may require us to undertake additional testing, or the trial results may not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval or clearance for other reasons. If we do not obtain FDA approval or clearance of the product use claimed in a clinical trial, we will not be able to promote the subject product for the indicated treatment of the specific disease or condition in the United States. 

Changes in Cleared or Approved Devices. We must obtain new FDA 510(k) clearance or supplemental premarket approval when there is a major change or modification in the intended use or indications for use of a legally marketed device or a change or modification of the device, including certain manufacturing changes, product enhancements and product line extensions of a legally marketed device, as required by FDA regulations. In some cases, supporting clinical data may be required. The FDA may determine that a new or modified device is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device or may require that additional information, including clinical data, be submitted before a determination is made, either of which could significantly delay the introduction of new or modified devices. 

Quality System Requirements. The FDCA requires us to comply with the Quality System Regulation (&#8220;QSR&#8221;) and various foreign regulations require compliance with ISO 13485 or national law requirements pertaining to all aspects of our product design and manufacturing processes, including requirements for packaging, labeling and record keeping, complaint handling, 

&#32;12 

corrective and preventive actions and internal auditing. The FDA and foreign regulators enforce these requirements through periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. These requirements are complex, technical and require substantial resources to remain compliant. Our failure or the failure of our suppliers to maintain compliance with these requirements could result in the shutdown of our manufacturing operations or the recall of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that one of our suppliers fails to maintain compliance with our quality requirements, we may have to qualify a new supplier and could experience manufacturing delays as a result. We also could be subject to injunctions, product seizures, or civil or criminal penalties. 

Labeling and Promotion . Our labeling and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and foreign regulators. Labeling includes not only the label on a device, but also includes any descriptive or informational literature that accompanies or is used to promote the device. Among other things, labeling violates the law if it is false or misleading in any respect or it fails to contain adequate directions for use. Moreover, product claims that are outside the approved or cleared labeling violate the FDCA and other applicable regulations. Allegations of off-label promotion can result in enforcement action by both federal, state, or foreign enforcement authorities, as well as liability under the False Claims Act, discussed further below. 

Federal Trade Commission. &#32;Our product promotion is also subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (the &#8220;FTC&#8221;), which has primary oversight of the advertising of unrestricted devices. The Federal Trade Commission Act prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, as well as unfair or deceptive practices such as the dissemination of any false advertisement pertaining to medical devices. FTC enforcement can result in orders requiring, among other things, limits on advertising, corrective advertising, consumer redress, rescission of contracts and such other relief as the FTC may deem necessary. 

Import Requirements. &#32;To import a medical device into the United States, the importer must file an entry notice and bond with the United States Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (&#8220;CBP&#8221;). All devices are subject to FDA examination before release from the CBP. Any article that appears to be in violation of the FDCA may be refused admission and a notice of detention and hearing may be issued. If the FDA ultimately refuses admission, the CBP may issue a notice for redelivery and assess liquidated damages for up to three times the value of the lot. 

Export Requirements. &#32;Products for export from Europe or the United States are subject to foreign countries' import requirements and the exporting requirements of the FDA or European regulating bodies, as applicable. In particular, international sales of medical devices manufactured in the United States that are not approved or cleared by the FDA for use in the United States, or are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements and we may not be able to export such products. 

Foreign countries often require, among other things, an FDA certificate for products for export, also called a Certificate to Foreign Government. To obtain this certificate from the FDA, the device manufacturer must apply to the FDA. The FDA certifies that the product has been granted clearance or approval in the United States and that the manufacturing facilities were in compliance with the Quality Systems Regulation at the time of the last FDA inspection. 

Foreign Regulations. &#32;Medical device laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries outside of the United States. These laws and regulations vary significantly from country to country and range from comprehensive device approval requirements for some or all of our medical device products to more basic requests for product data or certification. The number, scope, complexity, and cost of these requirements are increasing. 

Foreign regulatory approval processes for medical devices are expensive, uncertain and lengthy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for any product on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously received approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Additionally, the European Commission is currently revising the legal framework for medical devices in the European Economic Area ("EEA"). Approval of the new regulations is anticipated in 2016. If the current EEA and other foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices change, the new regulations may impose additional obligations on medical device manufactures or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Reimbursement. Our products are generally used in medical procedures covered by government or private health plans. In general, a third-party payer covers a medical device or procedure only when the plan administrator is satisfied that the product or procedure is reasonable and necessary to the treatment of the patient. Some private payers in the U.S. and government payers in foreign countries may also condition payment on the cost-effectiveness of the treatment. Even if a device has received clearance or approval for &#32; marketing by the FDA, there is no certainty that third-party payers will reimburse patients for the cost of the device 

&#32;13 

and related procedures. Even if coverage is available, third-party payers may place restrictions on the circumstances in which they provide coverage or may offer reimbursement that is not sufficient to cover the cost of our products. If hospitals and physicians cannot obtain adequate reimbursement for our products or the procedures in which they are used, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could suffer a material adverse impact. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (&#8220;PPACA&#8221;) has changed the way healthcare in the United States is financed by both governmental and private insurers and has significantly affected the medical device industry. This new law contains a number of provisions, including provisions governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, the increased funding of comparative effectiveness research for use in healthcare decision-making, and enhancements to fraud and abuse requirements and enforcement, that we believe affect existing government healthcare programs and result in the development of new programs. The PPACA imposes on medical device manufacturers a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices, which has adversely affected our gross profit and earnings for our marketed products. Under recently passed legislation, the excise tax has been suspended for the tax years 2016 and 2017. 

The recently enacted U.S. Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and similar state laws, also include annual reporting and disclosure requirements for device manufacturers aimed at increasing the transparency of the interactions between device manufacturers and healthcare providers. Reports submitted under these new requirements are placed in a public database. In addition to the burden of establishing processes for compliance, if we fail to provide these reports, or if the reports we provide are not accurate, we could be subject to significant penalties. 

Anti-Corruption Laws. &#32;Anti-bribery and/or anti-corruption laws are in place in the United States and in many jurisdictions throughout the world. In the United States, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") prohibits corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of procuring or maintaining business and requires that we maintain our books and records for accounting transparency purposes under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are required to train our U.S. and international employees to ensure compliance with these anti-corruption laws. Failing to comply with any anti-corruption law could result in fines, penalties or other adverse consequences. 

&#160; 

Anti-Kickback Statutes. &#32;The federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to a person to induce the purchase, order, lease, or recommendation of a good or service for which payment may be made in whole or part under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid, unless the arrangement fits within one of several regulatory &#8220;safe harbors.&#8221; The definition of remuneration has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash and waivers of payments. Violations can result in significant penalties, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Exclusion of a manufacturer would preclude any federal healthcare program from paying for the manufacturer&#8217;s products. In addition, kickback arrangements can provide the basis for an action under the False Claims Act, which is discussed in more detail below. A party&#8217;s failure to fully satisfy a regulatory &#8220;safe harbor&#8221; provision may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities. 

Government officials have recently increased enforcement efforts on the sales and marketing activities of pharmaceutical, medical device, and other healthcare companies, and recently have brought cases against individuals or entities that allegedly offered unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business. Settlements of these government cases have involved significant fines and/or penalties and in some instances criminal pleas. 

In addition to the Anti-Kickback Statute, many states have their own anti-kickback laws. Often, these laws closely follow the language of the federal law, although they do not always have the same exceptions or safe harbors. In some states, these anti-kickback laws apply with respect to all payers, including commercial health insurance companies. 

False Claims Laws. The False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Manufacturers can be held liable under false claims laws, even if they do not submit claims to the government, if they are found to have caused submission of false claims. Under the PPACA, a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is deemed to be a violation of the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act also includes whistleblower provisions that allow private citizens to bring suit against an entity or individual on behalf of the United States and to recover a portion of any monetary recovery. Many of the recent, highly publicized settlements in the healthcare industry relating to sales and marketing practices have been cases brought under the False Claims Act. The majority of states also have adopted statutes or regulations similar to the federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. 

&#32;14 

Privacy and Security. &#32;The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the &#8220;HITECH Act&#8221;), and accompanying rules, require certain entities, referred to as "covered entities" (including most healthcare providers and health plans), to comply with established standards, including standards regarding the privacy and security of protected health information (&#8220;PHI&#8221;). HIPAA further requires that covered entities enter into agreements meeting certain regulatory requirements with their &#8220;Business Associates,&#8221; as such term is defined by HIPAA, which, among other things, obligate the Business Associates to safeguard the covered entity's PHI against improper use and disclosure. In addition, a Business Associate may face significant statutory and contractual liability if the Business Associate breaches the agreement or causes the covered entity to fail to comply with HIPAA. We generally do not meet the definition of a Business Associate in most cases, but we are nevertheless committed to maintaining the security and privacy of patients&#8217; health information and believe that we meet the expectations of the HIPAA rules. Although we believe we are and will continue to be in substantial compliance with HIPAA standards, there is no guarantee that the government will agree. Enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. We believe the ongoing costs and impacts of assuring compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security rules are not material to our business. 

Additionally, many state laws regulate the use and disclosure of health information and require notification in the event of breach of such information. Those state laws that are more protective of individually identifiable health information are not preempted by HIPAA. Finally, in the event we change our business model and become a HIPAA-covered entity, we would be directly subject to a broader range of requirements under HIPAA, HITECH, the rules issued thereunder and their civil and criminal penalties. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, as well as public and employee health and safety. In the course of our business, we are involved in the handling, storage and disposal of certain chemicals. The laws and regulations applicable to our operations include provisions that regulate the release or discharge of hazardous or other regulated materials into the environment. These environmental laws and regulations may impose &#8220;strict liability,&#8221; rendering a person liable without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Such environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, or for acts that were in non-compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require expenditures. Environmental, health and safety legislation and regulations change frequently. Changes in those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 3,754 people. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. These materials can be inspected and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of these materials may also be obtained by mail at prescribed rates from the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at the above address. Information about the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC&#8217;s Internet website is www.sec.gov. 

We make available, free of charge, on our Internet website, located at www.merit.com, our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any amendments to such reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the electronic filing of such report with the SEC. In addition, we provide electronic or paper copies of such filings free of charge upon request. 

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Sales 

For financial information relating to our foreign and domestic sales see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8 of this report. 

&#32;15 

