 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

Manning &#38; Napier, Inc. is an independent investment management firm that provides a broad range of investment solutions through separately managed accounts, mutual funds, and collective investment trust funds, as well as a variety of consultative services that complement its investment process. Founded in 1970, we offer equity, fixed income and alternative strategies, as well as a range of blended asset portfolios, such as life cycle funds. Headquartered in Fairport, New York, we serve a diversified client base of high net worth individuals and institutions, including 401(k) plans, pension plans, Taft-Hartley plans ("Taft-Hartley"), endowments and foundations. 

Since our inception, we have taken the view that an active, team-based approach to portfolio management is the best way to manage risk for clients as market conditions change. Across our variety of equity, fixed income and blended asset portfolios, our goal is to provide competitive absolute returns over full market cycles. We employ disciplined processes that seek to avoid areas of speculation by focusing on investments with strong fundamentals at reasonable prices or stable fundamentals at attractive prices. To ensure a focus on absolute returns, we employ a compensation structure for our research team that rewards positive and above benchmark results and penalizes negative and below benchmark results. This active, absolute-returns based approach requires flexibility to invest where opportunities are and avoid speculation, regardless of the allocations within a comparative benchmark. 

Initially, this approach helped us build a client base of high net worth individuals, small business owners and middle market institutions, and we maintain these relationships in many targeted geographic regions. This foundation allowed us to expand our business to serve the needs of larger institutions, investment consultants and other intermediaries. 

A key aspect of our client service approach is a commitment to internal subject matter experts that can provide consultative services beyond investment management, which we believe helps us attract new clients and build close relationships through multiple service touch points and a solutions-oriented approach. We have designed solutions that are specific to our clients&#8217; needs, such as our family wealth management service and trust services. This service oriented approach combined with competitive long-term investment performance across portfolios, has allowed us to achieve a high average annual separate account retention rate. For the ten-year period ending December 31, 2015 , our average annual separate account retention rate was 95%. 

Our commitment to team-based research, an absolute return focus and a flexible process that is benchmark-agnostic have been central to our success, and we believe are distinctive within the industry. Over the course of our 45+ year history our mutual funds have earned several industry accolades, including a finalist ranking for Morningstar&#8217;s international manager of the decade during the 2000s and multiple Lipper awards. Several of our investment strategies have value-added track records over multiple decades, which has led to strong growth in our total discretionary assets under management ("AUM") over the long-term. However, our active approach causes us to be out of favor relative to benchmarks and/or peers over shorter time periods. As of December 31, 2015, 28% of our total mutual fund AUM rated by Morningstar were in funds rated at least four stars, and 97% were in funds that were rated at least three stars. These short-term periods can lead to changes in AUM trends over time. The following chart reflects our AUM as of December 31 for each year since 2000. 

&#32; 

We offer our investment management capabilities primarily through direct sales to high net worth individuals and institutions, as well as through third-party intermediaries, platforms and institutional investment consultants. As of December 31, 2015, our investment management offerings include 40 distinct separate account composites and 65 mutual funds and collective investment trusts. 

Our separate accounts are primarily distributed through our Direct Channel, where our representatives form relationships with high net worth individuals, middle market institutions or large institutions that are working with a consultant. To a lesser extent, we also obtain a portion of our separate account distribution via third parties, either through our Intermediary Channel where national brokerage firm representatives or independent financial advisors select our separate account strategies for their clients, or through our Platform/Sub-Advisory Channel, where unaffiliated registered investment advisors approve our strategies for their product platforms. Our separate account products are a primary driver of our blended asset portfolios for high net worth and middle market institutional clients and financial intermediaries. In contrast, larger institutions and unaffiliated registered investment advisor platforms are a driver of our separate account equity portfolios. 

Our mutual funds and collective investment trusts are primarily distributed through financial intermediaries, including brokers, financial advisors, retirement plan advisors and platform relationships. We also obtain a portion of our mutual fund and collective investment trust distribution through our direct sales representatives, in particular within the defined contribution and institutional marketplace. Our mutual fund and collective investment trust products are an important driver of our blended asset class portfolios, in particular with 401(k) plan sponsors, advisors and recordkeepers that select our funds as default options for participants. In addition, financial intermediaries, mutual fund advisory programs and retail platforms are a driver of equity strategies within our mutual fund offerings. 

Our AUM as of December 31, 2015 &#32;by investment vehicle and portfolio were as follows: 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; &#32;&#32;&#32; 

Recent Developments 

In December of 2015, we announced the agreement to acquire a majority interest in Rainier Investment Management, LLC ("Rainier"), an active investment management firm with more than $3 billion in AUM. Under the terms of the transaction, key professionals will maintain a 25% ownership stake in Rainier, with Manning &#38; Napier owning the remaining 75%. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016, subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions. 

Our Strategy 

Our approach for continued success is focused on the strategies described below. 

Maintain a Strong, Team-Based Research Engine 

With a research department of over 70 investment professionals, we are committed to a team-based approach to portfolio management to ensure that success can be repeated over time. All of our investment products are managed by a team, so that stability of process takes precedence over any individual personality. Our Senior Research Group, which consists of long-tenured members of the research department, maintains oversight responsibility for our investment disciplines and policies. We take a home-grown approach to maintaining this strong research engine. Analysts begin their employment with us as Research Assistants or Associates, and progress to the Analyst level only after learning our process and disciplines in a role that supports the portfolio management teams. We believe this ensures consistency with our time-tested philosophies and also provides a source of future analysts to address growth and turnover. 

Over time and as product development warrants, we may add to our research team or supplement that team with additional investment professionals through corporate development activities. In 2014, we acquired an alternative investment manager and integrated the research professionals into our existing team to enhance our alternatives capabilities. In December of 2015, we announced our intention to acquire a majority interest in Rainier in part to expand the product set available to our clients. The investment teams of both Manning &#38; Napier and Rainier will remain autonomous, and the transaction will not result in changes to either firm's investment personnel or processes. 

Broad, Multi Channel Distribution Team 

We continue to focus on the depth of our multi-channel distribution structure, which includes both direct and intermediary channels. Within our direct and intermediary channels, we recognize the growing influence and specialization of retirement plan advisors. To address this opportunity, we have established a specific Defined Contribution Investment Only wholesaling team to focus their sales efforts on retirement specialist advisors, who work with small-to-mid market defined contribution plans. In these channels, we believe we have a competitive advantage that allows us to offer our multi-asset class strategies, including our life cycle and retirement target mutual fund and collective trust products. Non-retirement plan advisors have and will continue to be focused on wealth management investment solutions. 

Within our direct channel, our high-touch distribution strategy has allowed us to build strong relationships over time. We continuously look to opportunistically enhance our direct distribution sales force domestically. Beyond deepening these current channels and territories, we continue to look at ways to expand our global distribution, including leveraging our current relationships in Europe and expanding into new markets. 

Innovative Product Development 

We are committed to on-going development of products and consultative services in response to current and prospective client needs. Today's market environment presents new challenges for investors. Historically low yields on fixed income securities, the potential for rising interest rates and future inflation, and continued global uncertainty have created an investing landscape that requires new solutions to meeting objectives. We understand that we must stay relevant and competitive by ensuring that we are consistently providing innovative solutions that address today's challenges. 

We have approximately $30 million invested in seed capital to our investment teams as of December 31, 2015 across more than fifteen products, including equity, fixed income and alternative strategies. Over the last two years, we have seen five of those seeded products reach a three year track record, including our Emerging Markets and Global Quality equity strategies as well as our Global Fixed Income, Strategic Income Conservative and Strategic Income Moderate strategies. In addition, our intent to acquire a majority interest in Rainier during 2016 will add several equity products to our product set, including small-to-mid cap, mid cap and large cap U.S. equity offerings as well as an international small cap equity strategy. 

Enhanced Consultative Services 

Offering consultative services alongside our team-based, process-driven investment management has been a source of both new business and client retention over our history. Currently, we offer a variety of consultative services to individual and institutional clients, including estate and tax planning, asset/liability modeling for defined benefit pension plans, retirement and health plan design analysis for employers, and donor relations and planned giving services for endowment and foundation clients. 

Many of these services are offered through our Client Analytics Group, which consists of internal consultants whose primary responsibilities include working with prospective and current clients to solve investment and planning-related problems. This group includes several chartered financial analysts, certified financial planners, an accredited investment fiduciary and professionals with law and masters degrees. 

We also offer practice management concepts and tools to both wealth advisors and retirement plan advisors to assist in their new business and service efforts, and certain technology-driven products and services aimed at the middle market employer marketplace to assist both employers and employees with their health and wealth planning. 

Products and Services 

We manage a variety of equity, fixed income, alternative and blended asset strategies, using primarily traditional asset classes such as stocks and bonds. These strategies may include a mix of the different vehicles we offer, including separate accounts, mutual funds, and collective investment trusts. Our goal is to help our clients meet their investment objectives by providing competitive positive returns over full stock market cycles, including both bull and bear market environments. Three key elements of our investment process help to keep us focused on that goal: 

&#8226; 

Team-Based Research . Our analysts and economists work together to understand market opportunities from both a broad, macro level and a more detailed industry and company level. This combination of both "top-down" and "bottom-up" research allows us to identify trends, themes and company specific investment opportunities across the 

globe, and has been a key factor in our success. The use of a team rather than an individual to manage strategies means we emphasize repeatable processes over personalities. 

&#8226; 

A Focus on Absolute Returns. &#32;Whether investing in a country, industry or individual company, we hold a strong belief that price matters. We are focused on helping our clients avoid permanent loss of capital over their time horizon, which is different than day-to-day volatility, which could in fact present opportunities. We believe that active management has consistently been the most appropriate and relevant investment strategy to achieve these goals across changing market environments. To that end, we believe we have aligned the incentives of our analysts with the goals of our clients by structuring our analyst compensation system such that returns that are both negative and below benchmarks produce a negative bonus the analyst has to offset before earning a positive bonus. The analysts earn their largest bonus, which could be multiples of their salary and the largest part of their total compensation, when they earn returns that are both positive and above benchmarks for our clients. We believe this focus on price has provided capital preservation in many valuation-based bear markets during our history, and reduces the risk of permanent, downside price fluctuation from our buy price. 

&#8226; 

Flexibility to be Benchmark Agnostic. &#32;The flexibility to invest across sectors, countries and asset classes allows us to focus on companies we view as having greater upside potential than downside risk, and allows us to have a broad enough opportunity set to freely navigate away from areas of excess or speculation without limiting the number of investment opportunities. While this approach may often result in our strategies having meaningfully different allocations and exposures when compared to market benchmarks, we believe this type of differentiation is necessary to manage risk in many environments. 

Sales and Distribution 

We distribute our products and services through direct sales to high net worth individuals, middle market institutions and larger institutional clients that are working with consultants. In addition, we have dedicated efforts to sell through financial intermediaries and platforms. In identifying prospective new business, we focus on individuals and institutions that have long-term objectives and needs, and are looking for a partner in addressing those objectives. We believe our problem-solving approach fosters strong relationships, and our focus on communicating our investment process helps to manage long-term expectations and minimize AUM turnover. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we have nearly 60 sales and distribution professionals, with an average of approximately 18 years of industry experience. Our Managing Director of Sales, who has been with us since 1993, oversees 13 direct institutional and regional sales representatives. Our Managing Director of Regional Sales and Managing Director of Intermediary Distribution, who have respectively been with us for 17 and 6 years, report to our Managing Director of Sales and help to manage our various sales and service representatives. Specifically, our direct national sales representatives cover large, multiple state territories prospecting large plans. Our direct regional sales representatives cover smaller territories and pursue both individual and middle market institutional business opportunities, and our regional service representatives focus on servicing individual and small institutional clients. Our Intermediary Channel includes external and internal wholesalers, separately covering retirement plan advisors and wealth management advisors, and key account representatives. Lastly, we have Portfolio Strategists who are primarily responsible for consultant relations. 

Sales representatives have different areas of focus in terms of client type, product and vehicle, but are highly knowledgeable about the investment markets, our investment process and our product and service offerings, so as to lessen the need for our research department personnel to assist in bringing new relationships on board. Our sales representatives are responsible for generating new business as well as maintaining existing business. Referrals are an important source of new business in both our direct and intermediary marketing efforts. To assist the sales representatives, we have over 30 service professionals who are responsible for responding to client requests and questions. 

Our separate accounts are primarily distributed by direct sales representatives that market to individuals and institutions in defined territories within North America. Our regional sales representatives form separate account relationships with high net worth individuals that own businesses, sit on boards of endowments or foundations, or are generally well-connected in their communities, and leverage those relationships to obtain middle market, institutional separate account business. Our high net worth and middle market separate account clients also often use the consultative services of our Client Analytics Group, which includes a variety of planning services. Our regional sales representatives focus more on large institutional mandates across the United States. We obtain a smaller portion of our separate account business through our external and internal wholesalers, who work with intermediaries, including national brokerage firm representatives and independent financial advisors working with high net worth individuals, and unaffiliated registered investment advisor platforms that select our strategies for inclusion in their investment programs. 

Our mutual funds and collective investment trusts are distributed through intermediaries, platforms and investment consultants, as well as direct to institutional clients. Our internal and external wholesale professionals are focused on distributing through retirement plan advisors who work with defined contribution plans, as well as through brokers and 

advisors who work with retail clients. Our consultant relations specialists are dedicated to building relationships with investment consultants. The primary responsibilities of these individuals are to educate consultants, platform providers and advisors on our investment products and process and to ensure our products are among those considered for placement within mutual fund advisory programs, on platforms&#8217; approved lists and in active searches conducted by consultants. Our direct institutional and regional sales representatives also contribute to mutual fund and collective investment trust distribution through sales and servicing of fund vehicles to large market retirement plan sponsors and institutions. 

Structure 

&#32;The Company was incorporated in 2011 as a Delaware corporation, and is the sole managing member of Manning &#38; Napier Group, LLC and its subsidiaries (&#8220;Manning &#38; Napier Group&#8221;), a holding company for the investment management businesses conducted by its operating subsidiaries. The diagram below depicts our organization structure as of December 31, 2015 . 

&#32; &#160; ________________________ 

(1) 

The operating subsidiaries of Manning &#38; Napier Group include Manning &#38; Napier Advisors, LLC, Manning &#38; Napier Alternative Opportunities, LLC, Perspective Partners LLC, Manning &#38; Napier Information Services, LLC, Manning &#38; Napier Benefits, LLC, Manning &#38; Napier Investor Services, Inc. and Exeter Trust Company. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 474 employees, including William Manning, our Chairman and controlling stockholder, and other current employee-owners, most of whom are based in Fairport, New York. Collectively, these owners and former employee-owners own approximately 83.3% &#32;of our operating subsidiary, Manning &#38; Napier Group. We believe that our culture of employee ownership aligns our interests with those of our clients and shareholders by delivering strong long-term investment performance and solutions. 

Competition 

Historically, we have competed to attract assets to manage principally on the basis of: 

&#8226; 

a broad portfolio and service offering that provides solutions for our clients; 

&#8226; 

the disciplined and repeatable nature of our team-based investment processes; 

&#8226; 

the quality of the service we provide to our clients and the duration of our relationships with them; 

&#8226; 

our pricing compared to other investment management products offered; 

&#8226; 

the tenure and continuity of our management and team-based investment professionals; and 

&#8226; 

our long-term investment track record. 

Our ability to continue to compete effectively will also depend upon our ability to retain our current investment professionals and employees and to attract highly qualified new investment professionals and employees. We compete in all aspects of our business with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. 

Regulation 

Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States at the federal level and, to a lesser extent, the state level, as well as by self-regulatory organizations and regulations outside the United States. Under certain of these laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisers have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit an investment adviser from carrying on its business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of investment adviser and other registrations, censures and fines. 

SEC Regulation 

Manning &#38; Napier Advisors, LLC ("MNA") is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as investment advisers under the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, ("the Advisers Act"). Additionally, the Manning &#38; Napier Fund, Inc., (the "Fund"), and several of the third-party investment companies we sub-advise are registered under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, (the "1940 Act"). The Advisers Act and the 1940 Act, together with the SEC&#8217;s regulations and interpretations thereunder, impose substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of advisers and mutual funds. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the 1940 Act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser&#8217;s registration. 

As an investment adviser, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. The SEC has interpreted these duties to impose standards, requirements and limitations on, among other things: 

&#8226; 

trading for proprietary, personal and client accounts; 

&#8226; 

allocations of investment opportunities among clients; 

&#8226; 

use of soft dollars; 

&#8226; 

execution of transactions; and 

&#8226; 

recommendations to clients. 

We manage accounts for all of our clients on a discretionary basis, with authority to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker-dealers to execute trades and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we receive soft dollar credits from broker-dealers that have the effect of reducing certain of our expenses. All of our soft dollar arrangements are intended to be within the safe harbor provided by Section 28(e) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Exchange Act".) If our ability to use soft dollars were reduced or eliminated as a result of statutory amendments or new regulations, our operating expenses would increase. 

As a registered adviser, we are subject to many additional requirements that cover, among other things: 

&#8226; 

disclosure of information about our business to clients; 

&#8226; 

maintenance of formal policies and procedures; 

&#8226; 

maintenance of extensive books and records; 

&#8226; 

restrictions on the types of fees we may charge; 

&#8226; 

custody of client assets; 

&#8226; 

client privacy; 

&#8226; 

advertising; and 

&#8226; 

solicitation of clients. 

The SEC has authority to inspect any investment adviser and typically inspects a registered adviser periodically to determine whether the adviser is conducting its activities (i) in accordance with applicable laws, (ii) consistent with disclosures made to clients and (iii) with adequate policies, procedures and systems to ensure compliance. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , 32% &#32;of our revenues were derived from our advisory services to investment companies registered under the 1940 Act, including 32% &#32;derived from our advisory services to the Fund. The 1940 Act imposes significant requirements and limitations on a registered fund, including with respect to its capital structure, investments and transactions. While we exercise broad discretion over the day-to-day management of the business and affairs of the Fund and the investment portfolios of the Fund and the funds we sub-advise, our own operations are subject to oversight and management by each fund&#8217;s board of directors. Under the 1940 Act, a majority of the directors must not be &#8220;interested persons&#8221; with respect to us (sometimes referred to as the &#8220;independent director&#8221; requirement). The responsibilities of the board include, among other things, approving our investment management agreement with the Fund; approving other service providers; determining the method of valuing assets; and monitoring transactions involving affiliates. Our investment management agreements with the Fund may be terminated by the funds on not more than 60 days&#8217; notice, and are subject to annual renewal by the Fund board after their initial term. 

The 1940 Act also imposes on the investment adviser to a mutual fund a fiduciary duty with respect to the receipt of the adviser&#8217;s investment management fees. That fiduciary duty may be enforced by the SEC through administrative action or litigation by investors in the fund pursuant to a private right of action. 

Under the Advisers Act, our investment management agreements may not be assigned without the client&#8217;s consent. Under the 1940 Act, investment management agreements with registered funds (such as the mutual funds we manage) terminate automatically upon assignment. The term &#8220;assignment&#8221; is broadly defined and includes direct assignments as well as assignments that may be deemed to occur upon the transfer, directly or indirectly, of a controlling interest in us. 

Manning &#38; Napier Investor Services ("MNBD"), our SEC-registered broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the SEC&#8217;s Uniform Net Capital Rule, which requires that at least a minimum part of a registered broker-dealer&#8217;s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. As of December 31, 2015 , MNBD was in compliance with its net capital requirements. 

ERISA-Related Regulation 

We are a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, with respect to assets that we manage for benefit plan clients subject to ERISA. ERISA, regulations promulgated thereunder and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. 

The fiduciary duties under ERISA may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Labor by administrative action or litigation and by our benefit plan clients pursuant to a private right of action. In addition, the IRS may assess excise taxes against us if we engage in prohibited transactions on behalf of or with our benefit plan clients. 

CFTC/NFA Regulation 

MNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, as a commodity pool operator ("CPO") and is also a member of the National Futures Association, or NFA. The CFTC and NFA each administer a regulatory system covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments in which certain of our clients may invest. 

New Hampshire Banking Regulation 

Exeter Trust Company is a state-chartered non-depository trust company subject to the laws of the State of New Hampshire and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the New Hampshire Bank Commissioner. 

Insurance-Related Regulation 

Manning &#38; Napier Benefits, LLC is a registered insurance broker in multiple states including the District of Columbia and, as such, is subject to various state insurance and health-related rules and regulations. 

Non-U.S. Regulation 

In addition to the extensive regulation our investment management industry is subject to in the United States, we are also subject to regulation by various Canadian regulatory authorities in the Canadian provinces where we operate pursuant to exemptions from registration. We are authorized to act as a non-resident sub-advisory investment manager to collective investment vehicles in Ireland. Our business is also subject to the rules and regulations of the more than 30 countries in which we currently buy and sell portfolio investments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 474 employees, most of whom are based in Fairport, New York. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are good. We strive to attract and retain the best talent in the industry. 

Available Information 

All annual, quarterly and current reports, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other filings we file or furnish with the SEC are available free of charge from the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov/ &#32;or from the Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549; 1-800-SEC-0330. 

We also make the documents listed above available without charge through the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.manning-napier.com/ . Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. 

