 Item 1. 

Business. 

Overview 

We are a global business that develops, manufactures, markets and distributes branded and generic specialty pharmaceutical products and therapies. Therapeutic areas of focus include autoimmune and rare disease specialty areas (including neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, ophthalmology and pulmonology); immunotherapy and neonatal critical care respiratory therapies; analgesics and hemostasis products; and central nervous system drugs. 

We operate our business in two reportable segments, which are further described below: 

&#8226; 

Specialty Brands &#32;produces and markets branded pharmaceutical products and therapies; and 

&#8226; 

Specialty Generics &#32;produces and markets specialty generic pharmaceuticals and active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") consisting of biologics, medicinal opioids, synthetic controlled substances, acetaminophen and other active ingredients. 

We completed the sale of our contrast media and delivery systems ("CMDS") business on November 27, 2015. The financial results of this business are presented as a discontinued operation. 

On August 24, 2016, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Nuclear Imaging business to IBA Molecular ("IBAM"), which is expected to be completed during the first half of calendar 2017. The Nuclear Imaging business is deemed to be held for sale and the financial results of this business are presented as a discontinued operation. As a result, prior year balances have been recast to present this business as a discontinued operation. 

For further information on our products and segments, refer to "Our Businesses and Product Strategies" within this Item 1. Business. 

History and Development 

Our Specialty Generics segment can trace its development from the founding of G. Mallinckrodt &#38; Co. in 1867 (predecessor of today's API business). We expanded from the controlled substance API business into controlled substance generics and branded specialty pharmaceuticals. 

Mallinckrodt plc was incorporated in Ireland on January 9, 2013 for the purpose of holding the Pharmaceuticals business of Covidien plc ("Covidien"). On June 28, 2013, Covidien shareholders of record received one &#32;ordinary share of Mallinckrodt for every eight &#32;ordinary shares of Covidien held as of the record date, June 19, 2013, and the Pharmaceuticals business of Covidien was transferred to Mallinckrodt plc, thereby completing our legal separation from Covidien ("the Separation"). 

Subsequent to the Separation, we completed multiple acquisitions of specialty branded pharmaceutical businesses within our Specialty Brands segment. We believe these acquisitions have created a foundation and framework for future growth. In addition to these acquisitions, we also implemented significant actions under our restructuring programs intended to improve our long-term profit margins and yield efficiencies from selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&#38;A"). In November 2015, we completed the sale of our CMDS business and in August 2016 entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Nuclear Imaging business, in order to further increase our focus on specialty pharmaceuticals. 

In May 2015, our Board of Directors approved the migration of our principal executive offices to Perth House, Millennium Way, Chesterfield, Derbyshire, United Kingdom, where they are currently located. Our telephone number at this location is +44 424 626 3051. Our U.S. headquarters is located at 675 James S. McDonnell Boulevard, Hazelwood, Missouri 63042. Our telephone number at this location is (314) 654-2000. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe we have the following strengths: 

&#8226; 

Ability to successfully execute strategies to drive growth. &#32;We completed multiple acquisitions of specialty branded pharmaceutical companies and assets in recent years that created a framework for future organic volume growth and additional business development. We successfully completed the integration of these acquisitions and generated synergies from these transactions, primarily associated with SG&#38;A. We expect to realize further synergies in SG&#38;A expenses during fiscal 2017. We continue to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and look for opportunities to achieve operating efficiencies. We have taken restructuring actions that have generated further savings, substantially within our SG&#38;A expenses. These acquisitions and restructuring actions further diversified Mallinckrodt, significantly increasing our scale, net sales, profitability and cash flow. 

&#8226; 

Diversified business model with increasing shift towards high-margin Specialty Brands business with significant cash flow generation. &#32;We have a diverse portfolio in both our Specialty Brands and Specialty Generics segments that generate significant cash flows. We have furthered our shift toward the Specialty Brands business with the completed divestiture of our CMDS business and agreement to divest our Nuclear Imaging business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, net sales from our Specialty Brands segment represented 72.5% of net sales from our reportable segments compared with 61.2% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. We expect the Specialty Brands percentage to increase in fiscal 2017 due to the inclusion of full year results from our fiscal 2016 acquisitions, organic volume growth in Specialty Brands and increased competition in Specialty Generics. Specialty Brands segment operating income increased from 45.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 to 52.8% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The increased revenues and segment operating income position us for strong cash flow generation, enabling us to potentially decrease net debt leverage over time. Net cash flows from operating activities in fiscal 2016 were $1,184.6 million &#32;compared with $896.4 million &#32;in fiscal 2015, both of which included operating cash flows from discontinued operations. 

&#8226; 

Expertise in highly regulated raw materials. &#32;We have expertise in the acquisition and importation of highly regulated raw materials, such as opioids and other controlled substances in our Specialty Generics segment. For example, in calendar 2015, we estimated that we received approximately 25% of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration's ("DEA") total annual quota for controlled substances that we manufacture. Based on IMS Health data for the same period, our Specialty Generics business had an approximately 23% market share of DEA Schedules II and III opioid and oral solid dose medications. The acquisition of certain raw materials and the processing of them into finished products requires collaboration with a wide variety of regulatory authorities including the DEA, U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). 

&#8226; 

Distinctive high-quality manufacturing and distribution skills with vertical integration where there are competitive advantages. We have expertise in the manufacturing of complex substances including those that come from naturally derived sources. Our manufacturing and supply chain capabilities enable highly efficient controlled substance tableting, packaging and distribution. 

While we have set forth our competitive strengths above, our business involves numerous risks and uncertainties which may prevent us from executing our strategies. These risks include, among others, risks relating to: DEA regulation of the availability of API controlled substances; drug products under development and marketed drug products; the highly exacting and complex nature of our manufacturing processes; our customer concentration; cost-containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations; developing or commercializing new products; expanding commercial opportunities for existing products; adapting to a changing technology and diagnostic treatment landscape; protecting our intellectual property rights or being subject to claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; the successful integration of acquisitions; the ability to grow net sales from existing and acquired products; and significant competition. For a more complete description of the risks associated with our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Businesses and Product Strategies 

We manage our business in two reportable segments: Specialty Brands and Specialty Generics. Management measures and evaluates our operating segments based on segment net sales and operating income. Information regarding the product portfolios and business strategies of these segments is included in the following discussion. Financial information regarding each of our reportable segments, as well as other geographical information, is included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Specialty Brands 

Our Specialty Brands segment markets branded pharmaceutical products for autoimmune and rare diseases (including in the specialty areas of neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, ophthalmology and pulmonology); immunotherapy and neonatal respiratory critical care therapies; analgesics and hemostasis products and central nervous system drugs. In fiscal 2016 , our Specialty Brands segment accounted for 69.2% &#32;of net sales from our operating segments. 

We started our Specialty Brands product portfolio in 2001 and shifted the focus of this portfolio to pain management with the 2010 launch of EXALGO&#174; (hydromorphone HCl) extended-release tablets (CII) ("Exalgo"). Our exclusivity period for Exalgo expired and generic competition entered the market beginning in May 2014. In fiscal 2014, we significantly expanded our Specialty Brands product portfolio with the March 2014 acquisition of OFIRMEV &#174; &#32;(acetaminophen) injection ("Ofirmev") and the August 2014 acquisition of H.P. Acthar &#174; &#32;Gel ("Acthar"). In fiscal 2015, we continued to diversify our Specialty Brands product portfolio with the April 2015 acquisition of INOMAX &#174; &#32;(nitric oxide) for inhalation ("Inomax") and immunotherapy treatment with the September 2015 acquisition of Therakos, Inc. ("Therakos"). In fiscal 2016, we further expanded our Specialty Brands business with the February 2016 acquisition of RECOTHROM&#174; Thrombin topical (Recombinant) ("Recothrom"), PreveLeak&#8482; Surgical Sealant ("PreveLeak"), and RAPLIXA&#8482; (Fibrin Sealant (Human)) ("Raplixa") and the development product StrataGraft&#174; regenerative skin tissue ("StrataGraft"). Our long-term strategy is to increase patient access and appropriate utilization of our existing products, develop new and follow-on formulations for recently acquired products, advance pipeline products and bring them to market and selectively acquire or license products that are strategically aligned with our product portfolio to expand the size and profitability of our Specialty Brands segment. 

We promote our branded products directly to physicians in their offices, hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers (including rheumatologists, neurologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, neonatologists, ophthalmologists, surgeons, and pharmacy directors) with our own direct sales force of over 500 sales representatives as of September 30, 2016. Our products are purchased by independent wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains and hospital procurement departments, among others, and are eventually dispensed by prescription to patients. We also contract directly with payer organizations to ensure reimbursement for our products to patients that are prescribed our products by their physicians. 

The following is a description of select products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio: 

&#8226; 

Acthar &#32;is an injectable drug approved by the FDA for use in 19 indications. The product currently generates substantially all of its net sales from ten of the on-label indications, including the treatment of proteinuria in nephrotic syndrome of the idiopathic type ("NS"); the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis ("MS") in adults; the treatment of infantile spasms ("IS") in infants and children under two years of age; the treatment of the pulmonology indication of sarcoidosis; the treatment of ophthalmic conditions related to severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes; and the treatment of certain rheumatology-related conditions, including the treatment of the rare and closely related neuromuscular disorders, dermatomyositis and polymyositis. We may initiate commercial efforts for other approved indications where there is high unmet medical need. The currently approved indications of Acthar are not subject to patent or other exclusivity, with the exception of IS which was granted orphan drug status from the FDA upon its approval in October 2010. 

&#8226; 

Inomax is a vasodilator that, in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents, is indicated to improve oxygenation and reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in term and near-term (&#62;34 weeks) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure ("HRF") associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension. Inomax is marketed as part of the Inomax Total Care Package, which includes the drug product, proprietary drug-delivery systems, technical and clinical assistance, 24/7/365 customer service, emergency supply and delivery and on-site training. The Inomax Total Care Package maintains a number of patents, the latest of which expire in 2031, that contain claims to nitric oxide delivery systems expressly required by the drug labeling for administration of Inomax, covering a number of important functions, including patient safety and product performance features. 

&#8226; 

Ofirmev &#32;is a proprietary intravenous formulation of acetaminophen indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics and the reduction of fever. This product is marketed to hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers and provides us with an expanded presence in these channels. Ofirmev is protected by two patents listed in the Orange Book: Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence ("the Orange Book") that expire in August 2017 and June 2021 and we have the potential to obtain an additional six months of exclusivity for each patent if the FDA grants pediatric exclusivity. Settlement agreements have been reached in association with certain challenges to these patents, which allow for generic competition to Ofirmev in December 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances. 

&#8226; 

Therakos immunotherapy is focused on providing innovative immunotherapy treatment platforms that enhance the ability of a patient's immune system to fight disease. Therakos is the global leader in autologous immunotherapy delivered through extracorporeal photopheresis ("ECP"). Therakos provides the only integrated ECP system in the world. ECP involves drawing a portion of blood from the patient, separating white blood cells from plasma and red blood cells, which are returned to the patient, and treating the white blood cells with an Ultraviolet-A ("UVA") light 

activated drug. The treated white blood cells are immediately re-administered back into the patient. ECP is approved by the FDA for use in the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (&#8220;CTCL&#8221;) that is unresponsive to other forms of treatment. Outside the United States, ECP is approved to treat several other serious diseases that arise from immune system imbalances. Therakos&#8217; product suite, which is sold to hospitals, clinics, academic centers and blood banks, includes an installed system, a disposable procedural kit used for each treatment and a drug, UVADEX &#174; (methoxsalen) Sterile Solution (&#8220;UVADEX&#8221;), as well as instrument accessories and instrument maintenance and repair services. 

&#8226; 

Hemostasis products &#32;deliver innovation across the spectrum of surgical bleeding with a suite of products and services to help improve hemostasis management. Recothrom is a topical thrombin indicated to aid hemostasis whenever oozing blood and minor bleeding from capillaries and small venules is accessible and control of bleeding by standard surgical techniques (such as suture, ligature, or cautery) is ineffective or impractical in adults and pediatric populations greater than or equal to one month of age. PreveLeak is indicated for use in vascular reconstructions to achieve adjunctive hemostasis by mechanically sealing areas of leakage. Raplixa is a fibrin sealant indicated as an adjunct to hemostasis for mild to moderate bleeding in adults undergoing surgery when control of bleeding by standard surgical techniques (such as suture, ligature, and cautery) is ineffective or impractical. Raplixa is used in conjunction with an absorbable gelatin sponge (USP) and may be applied directly or using the RaplixaSpray&#8482; device. Each of the acquired products is approved for use in the U.S. and certain European countries, with long-range market exclusivity through intellectual property protection &#8211; Recothrom to 2026, PreveLeak to 2028 and Raplixa to 2031. Only Recothrom and PreveLeak are currently marketed in the U.S. 

&#8226; 

StrataGraft &#32;is a viable, full-thickness product being developed for regulatory approval for severe burns and other complex skin defects. It was designed to mimic natural human skin, with both dermal and fully differentiated epidermal layers. Unlike first generation products, this resorbable tissue is easily sutured or stapled and remains intact in the wound bed, providing critical barrier functionality during the wound healing process. StrataGraft is produced using unmodified NIKS&#174; cells grown under standard operating procedures. Because the continuous NIKS skin cell line has been thoroughly characterized, StrataGraft products are virus-free, non-tumorigenic, and offer batch-to-batch genetic consistency. 

Specialty Generics 

Our Specialty Generics segment markets drugs that include a variety of product formulations containing hydrocodone, oxycodone and several other controlled substances. While our pipeline is limited, we do have products in development. Our API business, which is included in the Specialty Generics segment, provides bulk API products, including opioids and acetaminophen, to a wide variety of pharmaceutical companies, many of which are direct competitors of our Specialty Generics finished dosage business. In addition, we use our API for internal manufacturing of our finished dosage products. In fiscal 2016 , our Specialty Generics segment accounted for 30.8% &#32;of net sales from our operating segments. 

We are among the world's largest manufacturers of bulk acetaminophen and the only producer of acetaminophen outside of Asia. We manufacture controlled substances under DEA quota restrictions and in calendar 2015 we estimated that we received approximately 25% &#32;of the total DEA quota provided to the U.S. market for the controlled substances we manufacture. We believe that our market position in the API business and allocation of opioid raw materials from the DEA is a competitive advantage for our API business and, in turn, for our Specialty Generics business. The strategy for our API business is based on manufacturing large volumes of high-quality product and customized product offerings, responsive technical services and timely delivery to our customers. 

We market our products principally through independent channels, including drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, food store chains with pharmacies, pharmaceutical benefit managers that have mail order pharmacies and hospital buying groups. 

The following is a list of significant products and product families in our Specialty Generics product portfolio: 

&#8226; 

hydrocodone (API) and hydrocodone-containing tablets; 

&#8226; 

oxycodone (API) and oxycodone-containing tablets; 

&#8226; 

methylphenidate HCl extended-release tablets USP (CII) ("Methylphenidate ER") under a class BX-rating issued by the FDA in November 2014 and; 

&#8226; 

other controlled substances, including acetaminophen (API) products. 

Industry Overview and Trends 

We believe our businesses are well positioned in attractive markets based on a global broadening of access to healthcare and increased demand for pharmaceutical products from emerging markets. With respect to specialty branded drugs, most disease states are addressed by products of a small group of companies that can create extensions of existing brands. Pain management represents the largest therapeutic prescription market in the U.S., with pain medications accounting for approximately one out of every ten dispensed prescriptions. 

Competition 

Several of our Specialty Brands products do not face direct competition from similar products, but instead compete against alternative forms of treatment that a prescriber may utilize. For example, Acthar has limited direct competition due to the unique nature of the product; however, it generally is prescribed by physicians when numerous alternative treatments have failed to provide positive outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. Similarly, Inomax is the only inhaled nitric oxide product approved by the FDA that is indicated for the treatment of term and near-term (&#62;34 weeks) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension, where it improves oxygenation and reduces the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost advantages, as compared with other forms of care. 

The highly competitive environment of our Specialty Brands segment requires us to continually seek out new products to treat diseases and conditions in areas of high unmet medical needs, to create technological innovations and to market our products effectively. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other products already on the market, as well as other products that are subsequently developed by competitors. For our branded products, we may be granted market exclusivity either through the FDA, the U.S. Patent Office or similar agencies internationally. Regulatory exclusivity is granted by the FDA for new innovations, such as new clinical data, a new chemical entity or orphan drugs, and patents are issued for inventions, such as composition of matter or method of use. While patents offer a longer period of exclusivity, there are more bases to challenge patent-conferred exclusivity than with regulatory exclusivity. Generally, once market exclusivity expires on our branded products, competition will likely intensify as generic forms of the product are launched. Products which do not benefit from regulatory or patent exclusivity must rely on other competitive advantages, such as confidentiality agreements or product formulation trade secrets for difficult to replicate products. Several of the products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio benefit from these forms of regulatory and patent-conferred exclusivity. 

Following the loss of regulatory and patent-conferred exclusivity, branded products often face increased competition from generic pharmaceuticals. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in R&#38;D than research-based pharmaceutical companies, allowing generic versions to typically be significantly less expensive than the related branded products. The generic form of a drug may also enjoy a preferred position relative to the branded version under third-party reimbursement programs, or be routinely dispensed in substitution for the branded form by pharmacies. If competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions, decreased sales volume or both. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost advantages, as compared with other forms of care. Certain of our Specialty Brands products are specialized pharmaceuticals, for example Acthar, that may not be prescribed unless a clear benefit in efficacy or safety is demonstrated or until alternatives have failed to provide positive patient outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. 

Our Specialty Generics products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets, primarily throughout the U.S. Our competitors vary depending upon therapeutic and product categories. Major competitors of our Specialty Generics products include Endo Health Solutions Inc., Johnson Matthey plc, Mylan N.V., Pfizer Inc., Purdue Pharma L.P. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., among others. We believe our secure sources of raw opioid material, vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities, broad offerings of API controlled substances and acetaminophen, comprehensive generic controlled substance product line and established relationships with pharmacies enable us to compete with larger generics manufacturers. In addition, we believe that our experience with the FDA, DEA and Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ("REMS") provides us the knowledge to operate in this highly competitive and regulated environment. 

The Specialty Generics segment faces intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies marketing authorized generics, existing branded equivalents and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. The competition varies depending on the specific product category and dosage strength. Among the large generic controlled substance providers, we are the only generic manufacturer that has its own controlled substance API manufacturing capability. New drugs and future developments in improved or advanced drug delivery technologies or other therapeutic techniques may provide therapeutic or cost advantages to products we market. The maintenance of profitable operations in generic pharmaceuticals depends, in part, on our ability to select, develop and timely launch new generic products, to manufacture such new products in a cost efficient, high-quality manner and implement and drive market volume. 

As a result of consolidation among wholesale distributors and rapid growth of large retail drug store chains, a small number of large wholesale distributors and retail drug store chains control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. This has resulted in customers gaining more purchasing power. Consequently, there is heightened competition among generic drug producers for the business of this smaller and more selective customer base. 

In our API business, we believe that our competitive advantages include our manufacturing capabilities in controlled substances that enable high-speed, high-volume tableting, packaging and distribution. Additionally, we believe we offer customers reliability of supply and broad-based technical customer service. 

The competitive landscape in the acquisition and in-licensing of pharmaceutical products has intensified in recent years, reflecting both a reduction in the number of compounds available and an increase in the number of companies and the collective resources bidding on available assets. The ability to effectively compete in product development, acquisitions and in-licensing is important to our long-term growth strategy. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical industry include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, third-party reimbursement, marketing effectiveness, customer service, reliability of supply, reputation and access to technical information. 

Our current or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of the competition described above and the factors described in "Intellectual Property" included within this Item 1. Business, as well as any of the risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries covering certain products and have also developed brand names and trademarks for other products. Generally, our Specialty Brands business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks and license rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement. However, our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, trademark or license or any group of patents, trademarks or licenses. 

The majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the branded pharmaceutical industry, an innovator product's market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovator is entitled. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there often are very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product's sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category; however, following patent expiration, branded products often continue to have some market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection or is based on the difficulties associated with replicating the product formulation or bioavailability. Acthar is not subject to patent or other exclusivity, with the exception of infantile spasms ("IS") which was granted orphan drug status from the FDA upon its approval in October 2010. Acthar's commercial durability therefore relies partially upon product formulation trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and trademark and copyright laws. These items may not prevent competitors from independently developing similar technology or duplicating our product. Several of the other products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio currently benefit from these forms of regulatory and patent-conferred exclusivity. 

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the product. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms, and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country. 

Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of pharmaceuticals. For example, the U.S., European Union ("E.U.") and Japan each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of certain new drugs during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator's data to approve a competitor's generic copy. Regulatory exclusivity is also available in certain markets as incentives for research on new indications, orphan drugs (drugs that demonstrate promise for the diagnosis or treatment of rare diseases or conditions) and medicines that may be useful in treating pediatric patients. Regulatory exclusivity is independent of any patent rights and can be particularly important when a drug lacks broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory exclusivity on the basis of the competitor's own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator. 

We estimate the likely market exclusivity period for each of our branded products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict with certainty the length of market exclusivity for any of our branded products because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the relative success or lack thereof by potential competitors' experience in product development and inherent uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that we currently estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate. 

In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, we also market products with trademarks. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registrations of such trademarks are for fixed terms and subject to renewal as provided by the laws of the particular country. 

Research and Development 

We devote significant resources to the research and development of products and proprietary drug technologies. We incurred R&#38;D expenses from continuing operations of $262.2 million , $203.3 million &#32;and $140.5 million &#32;in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. We expect to continue to invest in R&#38;D activities, both for existing products and the development of new portfolio assets. We intend to focus our R&#38;D investments principally in the specialty pharmaceuticals area, specifically investments to support our Specialty Brands, where we believe there is the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability. Our Specialty Brands include medicines for pain management, acute and critical care, and autoimmune and rare diseases (&#8220;ARD&#8221;). Our primary focus for the latter includes the therapeutic areas of neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, ophthalmology and pulmonology. 

Specialty Brands. &#32;We devote significant R&#38;D resources for our branded products. Our R&#38;D investments center on building a diverse, durable portfolio of innovative therapies that provide value to patients, physicians and payers. We are leveraging both organic development and acquiring late-stage development assets through the execution of our &#8220;acquire to invest&#8221; strategy to facilitate organic growth. Under this strategy, we look to acquire durable, but currently under-resourced assets for which we believe we can accelerate growth and expand reach to patients with substantial unmet medical needs. 

Data generation is an important strategic driver for key products in order to extend evidence in approved uses, label enhancements and new indications. Our strategy is realized through investments in both clinical and health economic activities. We are committed to supporting research that helps advance the understanding and treatment of a variety of different disease states that will further the understanding and development of our currently marketed products, including Acthar&#174;, Ofirmev&#174;, Inomax, and Therakos immunotherapy. 

Our "acquire to invest" strategy also includes the acquisition of early and late stage development products to meet the needs of underserved patient populations. Under our strategy we continue the development process and perform clinical trials to support FDA approval of new products. The most significant development products in our pipeline include Terlipressin, StrataGraft and Synacthen Depot in the U.S. Terlipressin is being investigated for the treatment of Hepatorenal Syndrome ("HRS") type1, an acute, rare and life-threatening condition requiring hospitalization, with no currently approved therapy in the U.S. or Canada. In July 2016, the Company enrolled the first patient in the company's Phase 3 clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terlipressin (for injection) in subjects with HRS type 1. StrataGraft is an investigational product in Phase 3 development for treatment of severe, deep partial thickness burns and Phase 2 development for treatment of severe, full thickness burns. In 2012, the FDA granted StrataGraft orphan product status, and the product is being developed as a biologic to be filed under a biologic license application that would confer regulatory protection until 2032. Synacthen Depot is a depot formulation of Synacthen (tetracosactide), a synthetic 24 amino acid melanocortin receptor agonist. In August 2016, we announced that the FDA has granted the company's request for a fast track designation for its Investigational New Drug ("IND") application for Synacthen Depot in the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy ("DMD"). The FDA's fast track designation is a process designed to facilitate the development, and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. The purpose is to get potentially important new drugs to the patient earlier. 

Specialty Generics . Specialty Generics development is focused on hard-to-manufacture pharmaceuticals with difficult-to-replicate pharmacokinetic profiles. Our Specialty Generics pipeline portfolio consists of several products in various stages of development. We currently do most of our development work at our Specialty Generics headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri. 

Regulatory Matters 

Quality Assurance Requirements 

The FDA enforces regulations to ensure that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of drugs and medical devices conform to current good manufacturing practice ("cGMP"). The cGMP regulations that the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations, from receipt of raw materials to finished product distribution, and are designed to ensure that the finished products meet all the required identity, strength, quality and purity characteristics. The cGMP regulations for devices, called the Quality System Regulations, are also comprehensive and cover all aspects of device manufacture, from pre-production design validation to installation and servicing, insofar as they bear upon the safe and effective use of the device and whether the device otherwise meets the requirements of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("the FFDCA"). Other regulatory authorities have their own cGMP rules. Ensuring compliance requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas. 

The FDA conducts pre-approval inspections of facilities engaged in the development, manufacture, processing, packaging, testing and holding of the drugs subject to NDAs and ANDAs. If the FDA concludes that the facilities to be used do not or did not meet cGMP, good laboratory practice ("GLP") or good clinical practice ("GCP") requirements, it will not approve the application. Corrective actions to remedy the deficiencies must be performed and are usually verified in a subsequent inspection. In addition, manufacturers of both pharmaceutical products and API used to formulate the drug also ordinarily undergo a pre-approval inspection, although the inspection can be waived when the manufacturer has had a passing cGMP inspection in the immediate past. Failure of any facility to pass a pre-approval inspection will result in delayed approval and could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The FDA also conducts periodic inspections of drug and device facilities to assess their cGMP status. If the FDA were to find serious cGMP non-compliance during such an inspection, it could take regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, imported API and other components needed to manufacture products could be rejected by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, usually after conferring with the FDA. In the case of domestic facilities, the FDA could initiate product seizures or, in some instances, require product recalls and seek to enjoin a product's manufacture and distribution. In certain circumstances, violations could support civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a company is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, sanctions may be imposed that include preventing that company from receiving the necessary licenses to export its products and classifying that company as an "unacceptable supplier," thereby disqualifying that company from selling products to federal agencies. 

United States 

In general, drug manufacturers operate in a highly regulated environment. In the U.S., we must comply with laws, regulations, guidance documents and standards promulgated by the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services ("DHHS"), the DEA, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the Customs Service and state boards of pharmacy. 

The FDA's authority to regulate the safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals comes from the FFDCA. In addition to reviewing NDAs, for branded drugs, and ANDAs, for generic drugs, the FDA has the authority to ensure that pharmaceutical products introduced into interstate commerce are neither "adulterated" nor "misbranded." Adulterated means that the product may cause or has caused injury to patients when used as intended because it fails to comply with cGMP. Misbranded means that the labels of, or promotional materials for, the product contain false or misleading information. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other federal and state regulations could result in product recalls or seizures, partial or complete suspension of manufacturing or distribution, refusal to approve pending NDAs or ANDAs, monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

In order to market and sell a new prescription drug product in the U.S., a drug manufacturer must file with the FDA a NDA that shows the safety and effectiveness of (a) a new chemical entity that serves as the API, known as a 505(b)(1) NDA; or (b) a product that has significant differences from an already approved one, known as a 505(b)(2) NDA. Alternatively, in order to market and sell a generic version of an already approved drug product, a drug manufacturer must file an ANDA that shows that the generic version is "therapeutically equivalent," or behaves almost the same when taken by a patient, to the branded drug product and, therefore, is substitutable. 

For all pharmaceuticals sold in the U.S., the FDA also regulates sales and marketing to ensure that drug product claims made by manufacturers are neither false nor misleading. Manufacturers are required to file copies of all product-specific promotional materials to the FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion prior to their first use. In general, such advertising does not require FDA prior approval. Failure to implement a robust internal company review process and comply with FDA regulations regarding advertising and promotion increases the risk of enforcement action by either the FDA or the U.S. Department of Justice. 

For both NDAs and ANDAs, the manufacture, marketing and selling of certain drug products may be limited by quota grants for controlled substances by the DEA. Refer to "Drug Enforcement Administration" within this Item 1. Business for further information. 

NDA Process. &#32;The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a new chemical entity begins when the drug product is merely a chemical formulation in the laboratory. In general, the process involves the following steps: 

&#8226; 

Completion of formulation, laboratory and animal testing in accordance with GLP that fully characterizes the drug product from a pre-clinical perspective and provides preliminary evidence that the drug product is safe to test in human beings; 

&#8226; 

Filing with the FDA an Investigational New Drug Application that will permit the conduct of clinical trials (testing in human beings under adequate and well-controlled conditions); 

&#8226; 

Designing and conducting clinical trials to show the safety and efficacy of the drug product in accordance with GCP; 

&#8226; 

Submitting the NDA for FDA review, which provides a complete characterization of the drug product; 

&#8226; 

Satisfactory completion of FDA pre-approval inspections regarding the conduct of the clinical trials and the manufacturing processes at the designated facility in accordance with cGMP; 

&#8226; 

If applicable, satisfactory completion of a FDA Advisory Committee meeting in which the Agency requests help from outside experts in evaluating the NDA; 

&#8226; 

Final FDA approval of the full prescribing information, labeling and packaging of the drug product; and 

&#8226; 

Ongoing monitoring and reporting of adverse events related to the drug product, implementation of a REMS program, if applicable, and conduct of any required Phase IV studies. 

Clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, although they may overlap. The four phases are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Phase I trials are typically small (less than 100 healthy volunteers) and are designed to determine the toxicity and maximum safe dose of the drug product. 

&#8226; 

Phase II trials usually involve 100 to 300 participants and are designed to determine whether the drug product produces any clinically significant effects in patients with the intended disease or condition. If the results of these trials show promise, then a larger Phase III trial may be conducted. 

&#8226; 

Phase III trials are often multi-institution studies that involve a large number of participants and are designed to show efficacy. Phase III (and some Phase II) trials are designed to be pivotal, or confirmatory trials. The goal of a pivotal trial is to establish the safety and efficacy of a drug product by eliminating biases and increasing statistical power. 

&#8226; 

In some cases, the FDA requires Phase IV trials, which are usually performed after the NDA has been approved. Such post-marketing surveillance is intended to obtain more information about the risks of harm, benefits and optimal use of the drug product by observing the results of the drug product in a large number of patients. 

A drug manufacturer may conduct clinical trials either in the U.S. or outside the U.S., but in all cases must comply with GCP, which includes (a) a legally effective informed consent process when enrolling participants; (b) an independent review by an Institutional Review Board to minimize and manage the risks of harm to participants; and (c) ongoing monitoring and reporting of adverse events related to the drug product. 

In addition, a drug manufacturer may decide to conduct a clinical trial of a drug product on pediatric patients in order to obtain a form of marketing exclusivity as permitted under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act ("BPCA"). Alternatively, the FDA may require a drug manufacturer, using its authority under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, to conduct a pediatric clinical trial. The goal of conducting pediatric clinical trials is to gather data on how drug products should best be administered to this patient population. 

The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a drug product that has significant differences from an already approved one is somewhat shorter. The FDA requires a drug manufacturer to submit data from either already published reports or newly conducted studies that show the safety and efficacy of those differences. Significant differences include different dosage strengths or route of administration. 

Under the U.S. Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has the authority to collect fees from drug manufacturers who submit NDAs for review and approval. These user fees help the FDA fund the drug approval process. For fiscal 2017, the user fee rate has been set at $2,038,100 &#32;for a 505(b)(1) NDA and $1,019,050 &#32;for a NDA not requiring a complete clinical data package, generally a 505(b)(2) NDA. We expense these fees as they are incurred. The average review time for a NDA is approximately six months for priority review and ten months for standard review. 

ANDA Process. &#32;The path leading to FDA approval of an ANDA is much different from that of a NDA. By statute, the FDA waives the requirement for a drug manufacturer to complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and instead focuses on data from bioequivalence studies. Bioequivalence studies generally involve comparing the absorption rate and concentration levels of a generic drug in the human body to that of the branded drug or Reference Listed Drug ("RLD"). In the event that the generic drug behaves in the same manner in the human body as the RLD, the two drug products are considered bioequivalent. The FDA considers a generic drug therapeutically equivalent, and therefore substitutable, if it also contains the same active ingredients, dosage form, route of administration and strength. 

&#32;In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed into law the Generic Drug User Fee Act to address the FDA's backlog, which at the time was over 2,000 ANDAs. This legislation granted the FDA authority to collect, for the first time, user fees from generic drug manufacturers who submit ANDAs for review and approval, and the fees collected will help the FDA fund the drug approval process. For fiscal 2017, the user fee rate is set at $70,480 &#32;for an ANDA and $35,240 &#32;for a prior approval supplement to an ANDA. These fees are expensed as incurred. The FDA has set goal dates by fiscal year for ANDA submissions to improve the average review time. Fiscal 2017 has a target of approving 90% of ANDA submissions within 10 months of submission. 

Aside from the backlog described above, the timing of FDA approval of ANDAs depends on other factors, including whether an ANDA holder has challenged any listed patents to the RLD and whether the RLD is entitled to one or more periods of marketing exclusivity under the FFDCA (such as pediatric exclusivity under the BPCA). In general, the FDA will not approve (but will continue to review) an ANDA in which the RLD holder has sued, within 45 days of receiving notice of the ANDA filing, the ANDA holder for patent infringement until either the litigation has been resolved or 30 months has elapsed, whichever is later. 

Patent and Non-Patent Exclusivity Periods. &#32;A sponsor of a NDA is required to identify in its application any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in the Orange Book. Any person that files a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, the type of NDA that relies upon the data in the application for which the patents are listed, or an ANDA to secure approval of a generic version of a previous drug, must make a certification in respect to listed patents. The FDA may not approve such an application for the drug until expiration of the listed patents unless the generic applicant certifies that the listed patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the RLD of the bases upon which the patents are challenged, and the holder of the RLD does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. If an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (a) 30 months after receipt of the notice by the holder of the NDA for the RLD; (b) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed; (c) such time as the court may order; or (d) the expiration of the patent. 

One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day market exclusivity period ("generic exclusivity") granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to make a Paragraph IV certification and that prevails in litigation with the manufacturer of the branded product over the applicable patent(s) or is not sued. For a variety of reasons, there are situations in which a company may not be able to take advantage of an award of generic exclusivity. The determination of when generic exclusivity begins and ends is very complicated. 

The holder of the NDA for the RLD may also be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which the FDA cannot approve an application for a competing generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product. Generally, if the RLD is a new chemical entity, the FDA may not accept for filing any application that references the innovator's NDA for five years from the approval of the innovator's NDA. However, this five-year period is shortened to four years where a filer's ANDA includes a Paragraph IV certification. In other cases, where the innovator has provided certain clinical study information, the FDA may accept for filing, but may not approve, an application that references the innovator's NDA for a period of three years from the approval of the innovator's NDA. 

Certain additional periods of exclusivity may be available if the RLD is indicated for use in a rare disease or condition or is studied for pediatric indications. 

Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ("REMS") . For certain drug products or classes, such as transmucosal immediate-release fentanyl products and extended-release and long-acting opioids, the FDA has the authority to require the manufacturer to provide a REMS that is intended to ensure that the benefits of a drug product (or class of drug products) outweigh the risks of harm. The FDA may require that a REMS include elements to ensure safe use to mitigate a specific serious risk of harm, such as requiring that the prescriber have particular training or experience or that the drug product is dispensed in certain healthcare settings. The FDA has the authority to impose civil penalties on or take other enforcement action against any drug manufacturer who fails to properly implement an approved REMS program. Separately, a drug manufacturer cannot use an approved REMS program to delay generic competition. 

In December 2011, the FDA approved a single, class-wide REMS program for transmucosal immediate-release fentanyl ("TIRF") products (called "the TIRF REMS Access Program") in order to ease the burden on the healthcare system. TIRF products are opioids used to manage pain in adults with cancer who routinely take other opioid pain medicines around-the-clock. We were part of the original industry working group that collaborated to develop and implement the TIRF REMS Access Program. The goals of this program are to ensure patient access to important medications and mitigate the risk of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and serious complications due to medication errors by: (a) prescribing and dispensing only to appropriate patients, including use only in opioid-tolerant patients; (b) preventing inappropriate conversion between fentanyl products; (c) preventing accidental exposure to children 

and others for whom such products were not prescribed; and (d) educating prescribers, pharmacists and patients on the potential for misuse, abuse, addiction and overdose. This program started in March 2012 and requires manufacturers, distributors, prescribers, dispensers and patients to enroll in a real-time database that maintains a closed-distribution system. 

In February 2009, the FDA requested that drug manufacturers help develop a single, shared REMS for extended-release and long-acting opioid products that contain fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone and oxymorphone. In April 2009, the FDA announced that the "REMS would be intended to ensure that the benefits of these drugs continue to outweigh the risks associated with: (1) use of high doses of long-acting opioids and extended-release opioid products in non-opioid-tolerant and inappropriately selected individuals; (2) abuse; (3) misuse; and (4) overdose, both accidental and intentional." We were part of the original industry working group that collaborated to develop and implement this REMS program. In July 2012, the FDA approved a class-wide REMS program (called "the Extended-Release and Long-Acting Opioid Analgesics REMS") that affected more than 30 extended-release and long-acting opioid analgesics (both branded and generic products). This REMS program requires drug manufacturers to make available training on appropriate prescribing practices for healthcare professionals who prescribe these opioid analgesics and to distribute educational materials on their safe use to prescribers and patients. 

Drug Enforcement Administration . The DEA is the federal agency responsible for domestic enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 ("CSA"). The CSA classifies drugs and other substances based on identified potential for abuse. Schedule I controlled substances, such as heroin and LSD, have a high abuse potential and have no currently accepted medical use; thus, they cannot be lawfully marketed or sold. Opioids, such as oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are either Schedule II or III controlled substances. Consequently, the manufacture, storage, distribution and sale of these substances are highly regulated. 

The DEA regulates the availability of API, products under development and marketed drug products that are Schedule II or III by setting annual quotas. Every year, we must apply to the DEA for manufacturing quota to manufacture API and procurement quota to manufacture finished dosage products. Given that the DEA has discretion to grant or deny our manufacturing and procurement quota requests, the quota the DEA grants may be insufficient to meet our commercial and R&#38;D needs. To date in calendar 2016, manufacturing and procurement quotas granted by the DEA have been sufficient to meet our sales and inventory requirements on most products. In October 2016, the DEA reduced the amount of almost every Schedule II opiate and opioid medication that may be manufactured in the United States in calendar year 2017 by 25 percent or more. A handful of medicines were reduced by more, such as hydrocodone, which will be 66 percent of calendar year 2016 level. A delay or refusal by the DEA to grant, in whole or in part, our quota requests could delay or result in stopping the manufacture of our marketed drug products, new product launches or the conduct of bioequivalence studies and clinical trials. 

DEA regulations make it extremely difficult for a manufacturer in the U.S. to import finished dosage forms of controlled substances manufactured outside the U.S. These rules reflect a broader enforcement approach by the DEA to regulate the manufacture, distribution and dispensing of legally produced controlled substances. Accordingly, drug manufacturers who market and sell finished dosage forms of controlled substances in the U.S. typically manufacture or have them manufactured in the U.S. 

The DEA also requires drug manufacturers to design and implement a system that identifies suspicious orders of controlled substances, such as those of unusual size, those that deviate substantially from a normal pattern and those of unusual frequency, prior to completion of the sale. A compliant suspicious order monitoring ("SOM") system includes well-defined due diligence, "know your customer" efforts and order monitoring. 

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control and accounting mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly as manifested in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings. 

Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products. 

We and, to our knowledge, our third-party API suppliers, dosage form manufacturers, distributors and researchers have all necessary registrations, and we believe all registrants operate in conformity with applicable registration requirements, under controlled substance laws. 

Government Benefit Programs . Statutory and regulatory requirements for Medicaid, Medicare, Tricare and other government healthcare programs govern provider reimbursement levels, including requiring that all pharmaceutical companies pay rebates to individual states based on a percentage of their net sales arising from Medicaid program-reimbursed products. The federal and state governments may continue to enact measures in the future aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. We cannot predict the nature of such measures, which could have 

material adverse consequences for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole and, consequently, also for us. However, we believe we have provided for our best estimate of potential refunds based on current information available. 

From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 created a new prescription drug coverage program for people with Medicare through a new system of private market drug benefit plans. This law provides a prescription drug benefit to seniors and individuals with disabilities in the Medicare program ("Medicare Part D"). Congress continues to examine various Medicare policy proposals that may result in pressure on the prices of prescription drugs in the Medicare program. 

In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, "the Healthcare Reform Act") provided for major changes to the U.S. healthcare system, which impacted the delivery and payment for healthcare services in the U.S. Several provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act have already taken effect, including the elimination of lifetime caps and no rescission of policies or denial of coverage due to preexisting conditions, improving patients' ability to obtain and maintain health insurance. Our business has been most notably impacted by rebates from the Medicaid Fee-For-Service Program and Medicaid Managed Care plans and the imposition of an annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers. Medicaid provisions reduced net sales by $94.4 million, $82.3 million and $43.5 million in fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. The fiscal 2016 increase in provisions for Medicaid payments is primarily attributable to a $16.9 million increase associated with Acthar, due to double-digit net sales growth, which was partially offset by lower net sales of Specialty Generics. The fiscal 2015 increase in provisions for Medicaid payments is primarily attributable to a $41.7 million increase associated with Acthar, as fiscal 2015 included a full year of results for the product, which was partially offset by lower net sales of Methylphenidate ER. The Company was also impacted by the annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers, which is not tax deductible, and recorded expense of $23.3 million, $20.0 million and $0.9 million in fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, within selling, general and administrative expenses. The fee significantly increased in fiscal 2015 due to the inclusion of a full year of results associated with Acthar. We expect this branded pharmaceutical fee and Medicaid provisions to increase in future periods at rates that are consistent with net sales growth. There are a number of other provisions in the legislation that collectively are expected to have an immaterial impact to the Company. 

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. For example, in the U.S., there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services or reward past purchases or recommendations, including the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes, the False Claims Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products and are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs. In addition, some states in the U.S. have enacted compliance and reporting requirements aimed at drug manufacturers. 

We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom ("U.K.") Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. 

Compliance Programs 

In order to systematically and comprehensively mitigate the risks of non-compliance with regulatory requirements described within this Item 1. Business, we have developed what we believe to be a robust compliance program based on the April 2003 Office of the Inspector General ("OIG") Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, the Code of Ethics of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the U.K. Anti-Bribery guidance, and other relevant guidance from government and national or regional industry codes of behavior. We conduct ongoing compliance training programs for all employees and maintain a 24-hour ethics and compliance reporting hotline with a strict policy of non-retaliation. Our compliance programs are facilitated by our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. The Compliance function is independent of the manufacturing and commercial operations functions and is responsible for implementing our compliance programs. 

As part of our compliance program, we have implemented internal cross-functional processes to review and approve product-specific promotional materials, presentations and external communications to address the risk of misbranding or mislabeling our products through our promotional efforts. In addition, we have established programs to monitor promotional speaker activities and field sales representatives, which includes a "ride along" program for field sales representatives similar to those included in recent Corporate Integrity Agreements from the OIG in order to obtain first-hand observations of how approved promotional and other materials are used, as well as monitoring of sales representative expenses. We have also implemented a comprehensive controlled substances compliance program, including anti-diversion efforts and we regularly assist federal, state and local law enforcement and prosecutors in the U.S. by providing information and testimony on our products and placebos for use by the DEA and other law enforcement agencies in investigations and at trial. As part of this program, we also work with some of our customers to help develop and implement what we believe are best practices for SOM and other anti-diversion activities. 

We believe our compliance program design also addresses our FDA, healthcare anti-kickback, anti-fraud, and anti-bribery-related risks. We believe we have complied with reporting obligations of the U.S. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act and relevant state disclosure laws and have implemented a program across the Company to track and report data per Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") guidance and state disclosure requirements. 

Outside the United States 

Outside the U.S., we must comply with laws, guidelines and standards promulgated by other regulatory authorities that regulate the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, Health Canada, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., the Irish Medicines Board, the European Medicines Agency and member states of the E.U., the State Food and Drug Administration in China, the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia, the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority, the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Japan, the European Pharmacopoeia of the Council of Europe and the International Conference on Harmonization. Although international harmonization efforts continue, many laws, guidelines and standards differ by region or country. 

We currently market our products in Canada, in various countries in the E.U., and in the Latin American, Middle Eastern, African and Asia-Pacific regions. The approval requirements and process vary by country, and the time required to obtain marketing authorization may vary from that required for FDA approval. Certain drug products and variations in drug product lines also must meet country-specific and other local regulatory requirements. The following discussion highlights some of the differences in the approval process in other regions or countries outside the U.S. 

European Union . Marketing authorizations are obtained pursuant to either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which provides for a single marketing authorization valid for all E.U. member states, is mandatory for the approval of certain drug products and is optional for novel drug products that are in the interest of patient health. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted for review to the European Medicines Agency, which makes a recommendation on the application to the European Commission, who determines whether or not to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for concurrent mutual recognition of national approval decisions, and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure. 

The E.U. has also adopted directives and other laws that govern the labeling, marketing, advertising, supply, distribution and drug safety monitoring and reporting of drug products. Such directives set regulatory standards throughout the E.U. and permit member states to supplement such standards with additional requirements. 

European governments also regulate drug prices through the control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of such costs to patients. Many regulate the pricing of a new drug product at launch through direct price controls or reference pricing and, recently, some have also imposed additional cost-containment measures on drug products. Such differences in national pricing regimes may create price differentials between E.U. member states. Many European governments also advocate generic substitution by requiring or permitting prescribers or pharmacists to substitute a different company's generic version of a brand drug product that was prescribed, and patients are unlikely to take a drug product that is not reimbursed by their government. 

Emerging Markets . Many emerging markets continue to evolve their regulatory review and oversight processes. At present, such countries typically require prior regulatory approval or marketing authorization from large, developed markets (such as the U.S.) before they will initiate or complete their review. Some countries also require the applicant to conduct local clinical trials as a condition of marketing authorization. Many emerging markets continue to implement measures to control drug product prices, such as implementing direct price controls or advocating the prescribing and use of generic drugs. 

Environmental 

Our operations, like those of other pharmaceutical companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing processes and, as such, we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be in full compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at all times. Certain environmental laws assess strict (i.e., can be imposed regardless of fault) and joint and several liability on current or previous owners of real property and current or previous owners or operators of facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. We have, from time to time, received notification from the EPA and from state environmental agencies in the U.S. that conditions at a number of sites where the disposal of hazardous substances requires investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial actions. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the cost of investigation and cleanup of these sites including compensation for damage to natural resources. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations, as further described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 18 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and generally have become more stringent over time. We believe that our operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and to address liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances. However, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations will not exceed our estimates or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending environmental matters, it is reasonably possible that there will be a need for future provisions for environmental costs that, in management's opinion, are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but could be material to the results of operations in any one accounting period. 

Raw Materials 

We contract with various third-party manufacturers and suppliers, most notably related to our Specialty Brands products, to provide us with raw materials used in our products, finished goods and certain services. If, for any reason, we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials, finished goods, services or components required for our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The active ingredients in the majority of our current Specialty Generics products and products in development, including oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II or III substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation and the DEA limits both the availability of these active ingredients and the production of these products. As discussed in "Regulatory Matters" within this Item 1. Business, we must annually apply to the DEA for procurement and production quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. The DEA has complete discretion to adjust these quotas from time to time during the calendar year and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or to conduct bioequivalence studies and clinical trials. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in granting, in whole or in part, our quota requests for controlled substances could delay or result in the stoppage of the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products, our clinical trials or product launches and could require us to allocate product among our customers. 

Sales, Marketing and Customers 

Sales and Marketing 

We market our branded products to physicians (including rheumatologists, neurologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, neonatologists, ophthalmologists and surgeons), pharmacists, pharmacy buyers, hospital procurement departments, ambulatory surgical centers, and specialty pharmacies. We distribute our branded and generic products through independent channels, including wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, hospital networks, ambulatory surgical centers and governmental agencies. In addition, we contract with GPOs and managed care organizations to improve access to our products. We sell and distribute API directly or through distributors to other pharmaceutical companies. 

For further information on our sales and marketing strategies, refer to "Our Businesses and Product Strategies" included within this Item 1. Business. 

Customers 

Net sales to distributors that accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;were as follows: 

&#160; 

Fiscal Year 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

CuraScript 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

McKesson Corporation 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

AmerisourceBergen Corporation 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

Cardinal Health, Inc. 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in the past three fiscal years. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We presently have ten &#32;manufacturing sites, including eight &#32;located in the U.S., as well as sites in Canada and Ireland, which handle production, assembly, quality assurance testing, packaging and sterilization of products for our Specialty Brands and Specialty Generics segments. Approximately, 93% and 7% of our manufacturing production (as measured by cost of production) was performed within the U.S. and Canada, respectively, in fiscal 2016 . 

We maintain distribution centers in 10 &#32;countries. In addition, in certain countries outside the U.S. we utilize third-party distribution centers. Products generally are delivered to these distribution centers from our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, product, such as nuclear medicine, is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products by road, rail, sea and air. 

We utilize contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs") to manufacture certain of our finished goods that are available for resale. We most frequently utilize CMOs in the manufacture of our Specialty Brands products, including Acthar (for finish and filling of the product), Ofirmev, Recothrom and Therakos immunotherapy products. 

Backlog 

At September 30, 2016 , the backlog of firm orders was less than 1% &#32;of net sales. We anticipate that substantially all of the backlog as of September 30, 2016 &#32;will be shipped during fiscal 2017. 

Seasonality 

We have historically experienced fluctuations in our business resulting from seasonality. Acthar has experienced lower net sales during the first calendar quarter, which we believe is partially attributable to certain medical conditions being exacerbated by warm temperatures and effects of annual insurance deductibles. DEA quotas for raw materials and final dosage products are allocated in each calendar year to companies and may impact our sales until the DEA grants additional quotas, if any. Impacts from quota limitations are most commonly experienced during the third and fourth calendar quarters. Lastly, we have experienced lower operating cash flows during the fourth calendar quarter as we pay annual employee compensation and have experienced lower net sales in DEA controlled products. While we have experienced these fluctuations in the past, they may not be indicative of what we will experience in the future. 

Employees 

At September 30, 2016 , we had approximately 4,500 &#32;employees, approximately 3,900 &#32;of which are based in the U.S. Certain of these employees are represented by unions or work councils. We believe that we generally have a good relationship with our employees, and with the unions and work councils that represent certain employees. 

Executive Officers 

Set forth below are the names, ages as of November 1, 2016, and current positions of our executive officers. 

Name 

Age 

Title 

Mark Trudeau 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Matthew Harbaugh 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Meredith Fischer 

Chief Public Affairs Officer 

Raymond Furey 

Chief Compliance Officer 

Michael-Bryant Hicks 

General Counsel 

Ron Lloyd 

Executive Vice President and President, Hospital Therapies 

Hugh O'Neill 

Executive Vice President and President, Autoimmune and Rare Diseases 

Gary Phillips 

Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer 

Steven Romano 

Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer 

Frank Scholz 

Executive Vice President of Global Operations and President, Specialty Generics 

Ian Watkins 

Chief Human Resources Officer 

Set forth below is a brief description of the position and business experience of each of our executive officers. 

Mark Trudeau &#32;is our President and Chief Executive Officer, and also serves on our board of directors. In anticipation of the Separation, Mr. Trudeau joined Covidien in February 2012 as a Senior Vice President and President of its Pharmaceuticals business. He joined Covidien from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals LLC USA, the U.S. healthcare business of Bayer AG, where he served as Chief Executive Officer. He simultaneously served as President of Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. organization of Bayer&#8217;s global pharmaceuticals business. In addition, he served as Interim President of Bayer's global specialty medicine business unit from January to August 2010. Prior to joining Bayer in 2009, Mr. Trudeau headed the Immunoscience Division at Bristol-Myers Squibb. During his 10-plus years at Bristol-Myers Squibb, he served in multiple senior roles, including President of the Asia/Pacific region, President and General Manager of Canada and General Manager/Managing Director in the United Kingdom. Mr. Trudeau was also with Abbott Laboratories, serving in a variety of executive positions, from 1988 to 1998. Mr. Trudeau has served as a director of TE Connectivity Ltd. since March 2016. 

Matthew Harbaugh &#32;is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He has executive responsibility for finance, procurement and information technology, as well as the Nuclear Imaging business. Mr. Harbaugh previously served as Vice President, Finance of Covidien&#8217;s Pharmaceuticals business, a position he held from July 2008 until June 2013, when Mallinckrodt became an independent public company. He also served as Interim President of Covidien&#8217;s Pharmaceuticals business from November 2010 to January 2012. Mr. Harbaugh joined Covidien&#8217;s Pharmaceuticals business in August 2007 as its Vice President and Controller, Global Finance for the Global Medical Imaging business. Mr. Harbaugh was a Lead Finance Executive with Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., a New York-based private equity firm, from April 2007 until August 2007. Prior to that Mr. Harbaugh worked nearly ten years for Monsanto, where he held several positions, including corporate finance director, investor relations, and finance director/chief financial officer for Monsanto's southern Argentine/Chilean and Canadian operations via two expatriate assignments. 

Meredith Fischer &#32;is our Chief Public Affairs Officer. In anticipation of our spin transaction with Covidien plc, Ms. Fischer joined Covidien in February 2013 as Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs for its Pharmaceuticals business. Ms. Fischer was employed by Bayer Corporation from 2001 until February 2013, where she served as Vice President of Communications and Public Policy for Bayer HealthCare and Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, North America. In that role, Ms. Fischer supported Bayer HealthCare&#8217;s U.S. pharmaceutical and animal health divisions and the company&#8217;s global medical care and consumer care businesses. She was also Vice President of Marketing and Communications at Pitney Bowes, where she was responsible for product marketing, sales communications and the establishment of professional best practices. 

Raymond Furey &#32;is our Chief Compliance Officer, a role he assumed in August 2014. Previously, Mr. Furey served Questcor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. as Chief Compliance Officer since October 2011 and as Senior Vice President since May 2013. Mr. Furey has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. Prior to joining Questcor, Mr. Furey served as the Corporate Compliance Officer for OSI Pharmaceuticals and prior to OSI, he served 17 years in various capacities for Genentech, including healthcare compliance, commercial operations, finance, regulatory compliance and manufacturing. 

Michael-Bryant Hicks is our General Counsel. Mr. Hicks joined Mallinckrodt in March 2016. Before joining Mallinckrodt, Mr. Hicks served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary of The Providence Service Corporation, a global provider of a range of healthcare services, from January 2014 to February 2016. Prior to that, he served as Assistant General Counsel at DaVita Healthcare Partners, Inc., a leading provider of dialysis services from February 2011 to December 2013. Mr. Hicks was lead attorney for DaVita&#8217;s acquisition of HealthCare Partners, one of the country&#8217;s largest operators of integrated medical groups and physician networks, and served as interim general counsel for the business. Additionally, he spent five years at Beckman Coulter, Inc., a provider of biomedical testing products, where he was associate general counsel and head of legal support for the company&#8217;s Asia and Latin America operations, and was an associate in the corporate law practices of two international 

law firms - Vinson &#38; Elkins LLP and Mayer, Brown, Rowe &#38; Maw LLP. He began his career as a law clerk for the Honorable James A. Beaty, Jr. of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. 

Ron Lloyd is our Executive Vice President and President, Hospital Therapies. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt in January 2016, Mr. Lloyd worked at Baxter Healthcare/Baxalta for 12 years, where he held various commercial leadership positions including: President of the Immunology Division of Baxalta from January to June 2015; Franchise Head, Immunology from January to December 2014; General Manager BioScience U.S. Region from March 2011 to December 2014; General Manager/Vice President - Generative Medicine, Bioscience Division from January 2007 to March 2011; and Vice President - Global Marketing, BioScience Division from April 2003 to December 2006. Mr. Lloyd previously served in a number of commercial and business development capacities at Abbott Laboratories. 

Hugh O'Neill is our Executive Vice President and President, Autoimmune and Rare Diseases. From September 2013 to April 2015, he served as Senior Vice President and President, U.S. Specialty Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt in September 2013, Mr. O&#8217;Neill worked at Sanofi-Aventis for ten years where he held various commercial leadership positions including Vice President of Commercial Excellence from June 2012 to July 2013; General Manager, President of Sanofi-Aventis Canada from June 2009 to May 2012; and Vice President Market Access and Business Development from 2006 to 2009. Mr. O&#8217;Neill joined Sanofi in 2003 as its Vice President, United States Managed Markets. Mr. O&#8217;Neill previously served in a variety of positions of increasing responsibility for Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, Forest Laboratories, Novartis Pharmaceuticals and Pfizer. 

Gary Phillips, M.D. &#32;is our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer (a role he also held from October 2013 to August 2014). He served as Senior Vice President and President of our Autoimmune and Rare Disease business from August 2014 to January 2015. Before joining Mallinckrodt, Dr. Phillips served as head of Global Health and Healthcare Industries for the World Economic Forum in Geneva, Switzerland from January 2012 to September 2013. Previously, Dr. Phillips served as President of Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals North America from 2011 to 2012, as Head, Portfolio Strategy, Business Intelligence and Innovation at Merck Serono from 2008 to 2011, and as President of U.S. Pharmaceuticals and Surgical and Bausch &#38; Lomb from 2002 to 2008. Dr. Phillips has also held positions of leadership at Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Wyeth-Ayerst and Gensia Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Phillips serves as a director of Aldeyra Therapeutics, Inc. and Inotek Pharmaceuticals Corp. 

Steven Romano, M.D. is our Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Romano joined Mallinckrodt in May 2015 and has executive responsibility for research and development (R&#38;D), medical affairs and regulatory affairs functions. Dr. Romano is a board-certified psychiatrist with more than 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. Previously, Dr. Romano spent 16 years at Pfizer, Inc. where he held a series of senior medical and R&#38;D roles of increasing responsibility, culminating with his role as Senior Vice President, Head, Global Medicines Development, Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals Business. Prior to joining Pfizer, he spent four years at Eli Lilly &#38; Co. After receiving his A.B. in Biology from Washington University in St. Louis and his medical degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia, Dr. Romano completed his residency and fellowship at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, continuing on the faculty of the medical school for six additional years. 

Dr. Frank Scholz &#32;is our Executive Vice President of Global Operations and President, Specialty Generics. His responsibilities include global manufacturing operations, quality and supply chain, as well as the Specialty Generics segment. He joined Mallinckrodt in March 2014 as Senior Vice President of Global Operations and assumed his current position in September 2016. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt, Dr. Scholz was a partner with McKinsey &#38; Co, a global management consulting firm first in its Hamburg, Germany office and then in its Chicago, Illinois office. Dr. Scholz was a leader in McKinsey&#8217;s global pharmaceutical and operations practices. He joined McKinsey in 1997. Prior to joining McKinsey, Dr. Scholz was a research assistant at the Institute for Management and Accounting at the University of Hanover, Germany. 

Ian Watkins &#32;is our Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Watkins joined Covidien&#8217;s Pharmaceuticals business in September 2012 as the Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Watkins served as Vice President, Global Human Resources at Synthes, Inc. from June 2007 to September 2012, which was acquired by Johnson &#38; Johnson. Mr. Watkins served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from 2003 to 2006 for Andrx Corporation, which is now part of Allergan, Inc. (formerly Actavis, Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.mallinckrodt.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this filing. We make available to the public on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

We use our website at www.mallinckrodt.com as a channel of distribution of important company information, such as press releases, investor presentations and other financial information. We also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding our company in advance of or in lieu of distributing a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. Therefore, investors should look to the Investor Relations page of our website for important and time-critical information. Visitors to our website can also register to receive automatic e-mail and other notifications alerting them when new information is made available on the Investor Relations page of our website. 

