 Item 1. Business. 

Corporate History and Background 

Mentor Capital, Inc. (&#147;Mentor&#148; or &#147;the Company&#34;), which reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in late 2015, was originally incorporated in the State of California in 1994 as Main Street Athletic Clubs, Inc. and operated a small chain of athletic clubs, a trucking company, and food companies, among other things. In 1996 our registration under Regulation A of the Securities Act of 1933 was declared effective and we began to trade publicly. In 1997 we merged with a group of approximately fifteen oil and gas partnerships which proved to be unsuccessful. In 1998 we entered a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in the Northern District of California, due mostly to a need to decrease oil and gas related debt in excess of asset value.

As we emerged from bankruptcy the court allowed the original issuance of approximately $145 Million in warrants to the claimants and creditors. The warrants were in (4) four classes, have been reset to lower prices, and have been principally exercised at $0.09, $0.11, $0.65, $1.00 $1.60 and $7.00 per share. At $1.60 per share, we may receive as much as $20 Million in warrant proceeds. The amount of proceeds received from exercised warrants may be limited by the general status of the economy and the price per share of our regular shares of Common Stock. Warrant holders may be more likely to exercise warrants at $1.60 per warrant share if the shares of our Common Stock are priced above $1.60 per share. The longer the Company&#146;s Common Stock share price is above $1.60 the more likely warrant holders will also be willing to exercise their warrants. If the Common Stock share price is less than $1.60 for a long period of time, the Company may also decide to lower the exercise price of outstanding warrants so as to entice warrant holders to exercise their warrants and invest in the Company. The amount of potential funds received by the Company from such exercises will decrease as the warrant exercise price decreases. 

On February 9, 2015, in accordance with Section 1145 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and the Company&#146;s Third Amended Plan of Reorganization (&#147;Plan of Reorganization&#148;), the Company announced a minimum 30 day partial redemption of up to 1% of the already outstanding Series D warrants to provide for the court specified redemption mechanism for warrants not exercised timely by the original holder or their estates. Company designees that apply during the 30 days must pay 10 cents per share to redeem the warrant and then exercise the Series D warrant to purchase a share of the Company&#146;s Common Stock at the court specified formula of not more than one-half of the closing bid price on the day preceding the 30 day exercise period. In successive months, the authorized partial warrant redemption amount has been recalculated and the redemption offer repeated according to the court formula at an average exercise price of $0.320 per share thru December 31, 2015. Partial redemptions averaged approximately 64,000 per month. The partial warrant redemptions will continue to be recalculated and the redemption offer repeated until such unexercised warrants are exhausted or the partial redemption is otherwise truncated by the Company.

The Bankruptcy Court approved the Plan of Reorganization allows all the warrants and shares that are issued upon exercise of the warrants to trade freely under an exemption provided by Section 1145 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We received an SEC &#147;No Comment&#148; letter and our Plan of Reorganization was confirmed January 11, 2000. The SEC&#146;s letter is not and should not be interpreted as approval of the Company&#146;s Disclosure Statement or Plan of Reorganization. 

Recent Developments 

Currently, our general business operations are intended to provide management consultation and headquarters functions, especially with regard to accounting and audits, for our majority owned subsidiaries, which makes up most of our holdings. We monitor our less than majority positions for value and investment security. Management also spends considerable effort reviewing possible acquisition candidates on an ongoing basis, including within the cannabis industry. 

In 2009, we began examining cancer treatment-related companies, and created a proprietary Cancer Immunotherapy Index but worked with only one or two cancer therapy companies. In June 2013, we were approached to invest in a cancer related medical marijuana project and in August 2013 made the decision to start focusing on the medical marijuana space. The goal was to pursue an alternative approach to assisting in the fight against cancer and the effects of the disease.

We now have the following residual cancer related private holding: $55,942 in Brighter Day Health (&#147;BDH&#148;) which provides cost effective, HIPAA compliant video stations for high quality, face-to-face medical updates and monitoring between contracted doctors and cancer and other patients in nursing homes and hospice settings. BDH has an executed letter of intent to sell is operations to a third party and Mentor anticipates receiving approximately $105,000 for its ownership percentage. 

On April 20, 2015, the Company acquired 100% of a Georgia sole proprietorship, dba Investor Webcast (&#147;CAST&#148;) valued at $469,611 in exchange for 4,696 to-be-created Series B convertible preferred shares of Mentor. On May 7, 2015, Mentor formed a Delaware limited liability company subsidiary, Investor Webcast, LLC, to hold the assets of CAST. CAST provides cannabis related private companies, investors and microcap issuers with the best possible investor information through webcasts, conferences, email and an evolving mix of media products, investment publications, industry financial research, and by other means. After one year, the to-be-created Series B convertible preferred shares could be converted, in steps or in whole, into shares of Mentor common stock. The to-be-created Series B convertible preferred shares were to convert to shares of Mentor&#146;s common stock based on an agreed upon formula. Due to low revenue and a net loss experienced by CAST in 2015, as well as revised cash projections for the future 5 years, the fair value of the convertible security at December 31, 2015 is $0. Subsequent to year end the agreements with CAST were cancelled and terminated, resulting in a spinoff of CAST from the Company.

On June 25, 2015, the Company formed Canyon Crest Holdings, LLC (&#147;CCH&#148;), a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Mentor. CCH was formed to provide management services to the rapidly evolving cannabis sector. Services to be provided will include but are not limited to: 1) Branding, marketing, administrative and consulting services; 2) Compliance and legal services; and 3) accounting and financial services. Operations of CCH are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of inception (June 25, 2015) through December 31, 2015. 

We maintain a medical bias toward the application of cannabis to cancer wasting, calming seizures, smoothing the effects of Parkinson&#146;s disease, reducing ocular pressures from glaucoma and blunting chronic pain.

Our CEO, Chet Billingsley, became a founding director and officer of the board of directors of the Nevada Cannabis Industry Association in November 2013. The Company now intends to partner with, and invest in medical and social use cannabis companies.

Our goal is to focus future investments in the medical marijuana and social use cannabis sector. Mentor seeks to take significant positions in medical marijuana and cannabis companies to provide public market liquidity for founders, protection for investors, funding for cannabis companies, and to incubate private cannabis companies that have the potential to be spun off as stand-alone pubic companies. When Mentor takes a significant position in its investees it provides financial management when needed, but leaves operating control in the hands of the cannabis company founders. Retaining control, receiving greater liquidity and working with an experienced organization to efficiently develop disclosures and compliance to consider the public markets are three key advantages to cannabis founders working with Mentor Capital, Inc.

Because adult social use and medical marijuana opportunities often overlap, Mentor Capital participates in the legal recreational marijuana market. However, Mentor&#146;s preferred focus is medical, especially cancer related applications. 

Currently the Company has the following cannabis-related and non-cannabis investments in place. The Company&#146;s aggregate investment in these companies currently totals $2,222,822: 

&#183;

$1,500,000 receivable from Bhang Chocolate Company, Inc. Bhang Chocolate Company is a nationally branded infused edibles company. Bhang partners with other local cannabis producers who produce Bhang chocolate bars containing measured doses of cannabis derived THC and CBD for recreational and medicinal use where such sales are legal. Bhang seeks to expand its brand across other marijuana-related product areas, including financial processing for marijuana dispensaries. Bhang Financial was created to supply financial processing services and $200,000 of the Company&#146;s initial $1,500,000 investment in Bhang Chocolate Company was earmarked for this purpose. The Company and Bhang are currently involved in litigation concerning the amount invested by the Company and, until a resolution is reached or the Company&#146;s invested funds are returned by Bhang, the Company will continue to list Bhang Chocolate Company, Inc. and Bhang Financial as Portfolio Companies. [Please see the section entitled &#147;Legal Proceedings&#148; for additional information];

&#183;

$107,772 loaned to Electrum Capital Partners, LLC including accrued interest under an interest bearing convertible promissory note receivable that is currently bearing interest at 10% per annum; 

&#183;

$67,697 legacy investment in Waste Consolidators, Inc. (&#147;WCI&#148;) (a 51% ownership which is eliminated in the consolidated financial statements). WCI is a $2.5 Million revenue generating private service business based in Phoenix, AZ which is expanding into Austin, TX. WCI works with business park owners, governmental centers, and apartment complexes to reduce their trash related costs. WCI works with the owners to analyze the dumpster usage and reduce the number of partially used dumpsters throughout the complexes. A fleet of trucks moves dumpsters from high volume to lower volume locations and picks up onetime items for disposal. The refuse related cost savings are generally split with Waste Consolidators who supplies services under long-term agreements;

&#183;

$547,353 investment in an account receivable with annual payments of $117,000 that expires in 11 years, purchased in April 2015 from a non-affiliated individual. 

In an effort to analyze the viability of various cannabis companies in the market and help the Company focus on which related companies to approach as potential acquisition targets, the Company developed a cannabis index similar to that developed by the Company in the cancer industry. The Company initially included and tracked 20-26 different cannabis-related public companies but, with the fifteen-fold increase in the number cannabis-related companies entering the public market in 2013, the task of monitoring all such companies became larger than the Company cared to continue to expend. In late 2015, the Company modified its general cannabis index to reflect companies that appeared to have higher book value and revenue per share which is more characteristic of the goals of value investing.

The Company updates its cannabis index regularly to track historical fluctuations in the cannabis market but it does not currently rely on the cannabis index to guide its acquisition decisions. 

The Company continually works to identify cannabis related acquisitions and investments. While evaluating whether an acquisition may be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, no transaction will be announced until that transaction is certain. 

Currently there are 23 states and the District of Columbia that have laws and/or regulation that recognize, in one form or another, legitimate medical uses for cannabis and consumer use of cannabis in connection with medical treatment. Fifteen other states are considering legislation to similar effect. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, voters in the states of Alaska, Colorado, the District of Columbia, Oregon and Washington have approved ballot measures to legalize cannabis for adult use. The state laws are in conflict with the federal Controlled Substances Act, which makes marijuana use and possession illegal on a national level. Under the policy and regulations of the Federal government, marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance and is illegal under federal law. In March, 2015, the Compassionate Access, Research Expansion and Respect States (CARERS) Act bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate allowing states to set their own medical marijuana policies and to reclassify cannabis from a Schedule I to a Schedule II controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act. However, at this time, even in states where the use of marijuana has been legalized, its use remains a violation of federal law.

The Obama administration has indicated that it is not an efficient use of resources to direct federal law enforcement agencies to prosecute those lawfully abiding by state laws allowing the use and distribution of medical marijuana. However, there is no guarantee that the administration or a subsequent administration will not change the stated policy regarding the low-priority enforcement of federal laws, or that any future administration would not change this policy.

Competition 

There are many companies that are interested in investing in the medical marijuana and cannabis industry, many of which are well funded companies. Additionally, the operating companies in the cannabis sector are highly fragmented and compete against each other. Any acquisition by Mentor will be in competition with several other similar cannabis related operations in the sector. 

Employees 

Mentor Capital has 4 full time employees and 1 part time employee in its corporate office in Ramona, California. WCI has 25 employees in Tempe, Arizona and 2 employees in Austin, Texas, and Investor Webcast, LLC (&#147;CAST&#148;) has 2 full time employees in Georgia.

Available Information About Registrant 

We have voluntarily registered our securities under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and such registration became effective January 19, 2015. Since that date we have filed quarterly, annual, and current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;).

The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Registrant with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or directly at (202) 551-8300. The SEC maintains an Internet site containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding electronic filers at http://www.sec.gov.

We intend to make available our periodic reports and other required disclosures at our company website located at: www.MentorCapital.com.

