 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Development 

Bear Lake Recreation, Inc. was organized under the laws of the State of Nevada on October 22, 1998, with an initial authorized capital consisting of 50,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value common voting stock. 

Our initial operations consisted of renting snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles (ATV&#146;s). We had also planned on organizing snowmobile rental packages, which would have included lodging at Ideal Beach Resort at Bear Lake, Utah. On or about October 1999, we abandoned the snowmobile, ATV and lodging plans. Our lack of success was attributed to entering the marketplace comprising this endeavor during a year that was the beginning of a drought cycle, resulting in below average snowfall and competitive growth from one to three self-promoting developmental properties. Our operations ceased due to depleted capital resources resulting from offering vacation packages lacking in demand. 

On June 27, 2000, we entered into a licensing agreement with AlCORP, an Oregon limited liability company, to purchase the right to manufacture, use, market and sell the &#147;NetCaddy,&#148; a backpack style bag used to transport fishing gear. By the end of the first quarter of 2002, we had also abandoned the &#147;Net Caddy&#148; operations. We realized only minimal sales through our e-commerce site and 800 number infomercial advertisements. Additionally, due to the exhaustion of our capital resources, we could no longer maintain the infrastructure required for sales promotion while faced with limited consumer demand. 

All computations herein take into account a one for three and one-half (1 for 3.5) share reverse split of our outstanding shares of common stock that was effective on or about October 23, 2006, and which is discussed below under this heading. 

The following is a summary of material business developments since our inception:

&#183;

285,734 shares of our common stock were issued to our principal founder at inception for services valued at $1,000.

&#183;

Completed the offer and sale of approximately 12,868 shares of our common stock to public investors under Rule 504 of Regulation D of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) in March, 1999, for aggregate consideration of $45,000.

&#183;

Completed the offer and sale of approximately 94,066 shares of our common stock to persons who were &#147;accredited investors&#148; under Rule 506 of Regulation D in July and August, 2000, for aggregate consideration of $41,150.

&#183;

Issued our three directors and executive officers a total of approximately 428,574 (approximately 142,857 shares each, to Todd L. Albiston, Wayne Bassham and Derrick Albiston) for services valued at an aggregate consideration of $1,500 in September, 2004.

&#183;

Issued the same three directors and executive officers a total of approximately 428,574 (approximately 142,857 shares each) for services valued at an aggregate consideration of $1,500 in September, 2005.

&#183;

Our common stock was granted quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board (&#147;OTCBB&#148;) on or about December 31, 2005, and we were assigned a trading symbol of &#147;BLKR.&#148;

&#183;

On March 1, 2006, we amended Section 2.11 of our Bylaws to allow for written action to be taken without a meeting by less than all of the stockholders.

&#183;

Amended and restated our Articles of Incorporation, effective in April, 2006. The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were unanimously adopted by our Board of Directors, who then also constituted our majority stockholders, collectively beneficially owning approximately 857,143 shares of our common stock or approximately 68.6% of our outstanding voting securities, as Board members and stockholders. No other votes were required or necessary to adopt the amendments to our Articles of Incorporation, and none were solicited. The following is a summary of the material changes to our Articles of Incorporation: (i) five million (5,000,000) shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.001 per share were authorized; (ii) the minimum number of our directors was reduced to one; (iii) our Board of Directors was authorized to change our name in certain circumstances, without stockholder approval; and (iv) our Board of Directors was authorized to effect recapitalizations in the form of forward or reverse splits in certain circumstances, without a stockholder approval. We filed a Definitive Information Statement with the SEC on March 20, 2006.

&#183;

We effected a one for three and one-half (1 for 3.5) share reverse split of our outstanding shares of common stock that was effective on or about October 23, 2006, and our then OTCBB trading symbol was changed to &#147;BLKE&#148; on or about October 23, 2006. All share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split.

We have had no material business operations since 2002, when we began the search for the acquisition of assets, property or business that may benefit us and our stockholders. 

Description of Business 

We are currently seeking and investigating potential assets, property or businesses to acquire. We have had no material business operations for about eight years. Our plan of operation for the next 12 months is to: (i) consider guidelines of industries in which we may have an interest; (ii) adopt a business plan regarding engaging in the business of any selected industry; and (iii) to commence such operations through funding and/or the acquisition of a &#147;going concern&#148; engaged in any industry selected. We are unable to predict the time as to when and if we may actually participate in any specific business endeavor, and will be unable to do so until we determine any particular industry in which we may engage.

We are not currently engaged in any substantive business activity except the search for potential assets, property or businesses to acquire, and we have no current plans to engage in any other activity in the foreseeable future unless and until we complete any such acquisition. In our present form, we are deemed to be a vehicle to acquire or merge with a business or company. We do not intend to restrict our search for business opportunities to any particular business or industry, and the areas in which we will seek out business opportunities or acquisitions, reorganizations or mergers may include all lawful businesses. We recognize that the number of suitable potential business ventures that may be available to us may be extremely limited, and may be restricted as to acquisitions, reorganizations and mergers with businesses or entities that desire to avoid what such entities may deem to be the adverse factors related to an initial public offering (&#147;IPO&#148;) as a method of going public. The most prevalent of these factors include substantial time requirements, legal and accounting costs, the inability to obtain an underwriter who is willing to publicly offer and sell shares, the lack of or the inability to obtain the required financial statements for such an undertaking, state limitations on the amount of 

dilution to public investors in comparison to the stockholders of any such entities, along with other conditions or requirements imposed by various federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations and federal and state agencies that implement such laws, rules and regulations. 

Amendments to Form 8-K by the SEC regarding shell companies and transactions with shell companies that require the filing of all information about an acquired company that would have been required to have been filed had any such company filed a Form 10 with the SEC, along with required audited, interim and proforma financial statements, within four business days of the closing of any such transaction (Item 5.01(a)(8) of Form 8-K); and the recent amendments to Rule 144 adopted by the SEC that were effective on February 15, 2008, limit the resale of most securities of shell companies until one year after the filing of such information, may eliminate many of the perceived advantages of these types of going public transactions. These types of transactions are customarily referred to as &#147;reverse&#148; reorganizations or mergers in which the acquired company&#146;s shareholders become controlling shareholders in the acquiring company and the acquiring company becomes the successor to the business operations of the acquired company. Regulations governing shell companies also deny the use of Form S-8 for the registration of securities and limit the use of this Form to a reorganized &#147;shell company&#148; until the expiration of 60 days from when any such entity is no longer considered to be a shell company. This prohibition could further restrict opportunities for us to acquire companies that may already have stock option plans in place that cover numerous employees. In such instances, there may be no exemption from registration for the issuance of securities in any business combination to these employees, thereby necessitating the filing of a registration statement with the SEC to complete any such reorganization, and incurring the time and expense that are normally avoided by reverse reorganizations or mergers. 

Recent amendments to Rule 144, adopted by the SEC and effective on February 15, 2008, codify the SEC&#146;s prior position limiting the tradability of certain securities of shell companies, including those issued by us in any acquisition, reorganization or merger, and further limit the tradability of additional securities of shell companies; these proposals will further restrict the availability of opportunities for us to acquire any business or enterprise that desire to utilize us as a means of going public. 

Any of these types of transactions, regardless of the particular prospect, would require us to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock that could amount to as much as 95% of our outstanding voting securities following the completion of any such transaction; accordingly, investments in any such private enterprise, if available, would be much more favorable than any investment in us.

Management intends to consider a number of factors prior to making any decision as to whether to participate in any specific business endeavor, none of which may be determinative or provide any assurance of success. These may include, but will not be limited to, as applicable, an analysis of the quality of the particular business or entity&#146;s management and personnel; the anticipated acceptability of any new products or marketing concepts that any such business or company may have; the merits of any such business&#146; or company&#146;s technological changes; the present financial condition, projected growth potential and available technical, financial and managerial resources of any such business or company; working capital, history of operations and future prospects; the nature of present and expected competition; the quality and experience of any such business&#146; or company&#146;s management services and the depth of management; the business&#146; or the company&#146;s potential for further research, development or exploration; risk factors specifically related to the business&#146; or company&#146;s operations; the potential for growth, expansion and profit of the business or company; the perceived public recognition or acceptance of the company&#146;s or the business&#146; products, services, trademarks and name identification; and numerous other factors which are difficult, if not impossible, to properly or accurately quantify or analyze, let alone describe or identify, without referring to specific objective criteria of an identified business or company.

Regardless, the results of operations of any specific entity may not necessarily be indicative of what may occur in the future, by reason of changing market strategies, plant or product expansion, changes in product emphasis, future management personnel and changes in innumerable other factors. Further, in the case of a new business venture or one that is in a research and development mode, the risks will be substantial, and there will be no objective criteria to examine the effectiveness or the abilities of its management or its business objectives. Also, a firm market for its products or services may yet need to be established, and with no past track record, the profitability of any such entity will be unproven and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 

Management will attempt to meet personally with management and key personnel of any entity providing any potential business opportunity afforded to us, visit and inspect material facilities, obtain independent analysis or verification of information provided and gathered, check references of management and key personnel and conduct other reasonably prudent measures calculated to ensure a reasonably thorough review of any particular business opportunity; however, due to time constraints of management, these activities may be limited. 

We are unable to predict the time as to when and if we may actually participate in any specific business endeavor. We anticipate that proposed business ventures will be made available to us through personal contacts of directors, executive 

officers and principal stockholders, professional advisors, broker dealers in securities, venture capital personnel and others who may present unsolicited proposals. In certain cases, we may agree to pay a finder&#146;s fee or to otherwise compensate the persons who submit a potential business endeavor in which we eventually participate. Such persons may include our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of our securities or their affiliates. In this event, such fees may become a factor in negotiations regarding any potential venture and, accordingly, may present a conflict of interest for such individuals. Management does not presently intend to acquire or merge with any business enterprise in which any member has a prior ownership interest. 

Our directors and executive officers have not used any particular consultants, advisors or finders on a regular basis. 

Although we currently have no plans to do so, depending on the nature and extent of services rendered, we may compensate members of management in the future for services that they may perform for us. Because we currently have extremely limited resources, and we are unlikely to have any significant resources until we have determined a business or enterprise to engage in or have completed a reorganization, merger or acquisition, management expects that any such compensation would take the form of an issuance of shares of our common stock to these persons; this would have the effect of further diluting the holdings of our other stockholders. There are presently no preliminary agreements or understandings between us and members of our management respecting such compensation. Any shares issued to members of our management would be required to be resold under an effective registration statement filed with the SEC or 12 months after we file the &#147;Form 10 Information&#148; about the acquired company with the SEC as now required by Form 8-K. These provisions could further inhibit our ability to complete the acquisition of any business or complete any merger or reorganization with another entity, where finders or others who may be subject to these resale limitations refuse to provide us with any introductions or to close any such transactions unless they are paid requested fees in cash or unless we agree to file a registration statement with the SEC that includes any shares that are to be issued to them, at no cost to them. These expenses could limit potential acquisition candidates, especially those in need of cash resources, and could affect the number of shares that our stockholders retain following any such transaction, by reason of the increased expense.

Substantial fees are also often paid in connection with the completion of all types of acquisitions, reorganizations or mergers, ranging from a small amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars or more. These fees are usually divided among promoters or founders or finders, after deduction of legal, accounting and other related expenses, and it is not unusual for a portion of these fees to be paid to members of management or to principal stockholders as consideration for their agreement to retire a portion of their shares of our common stock that are owned by them or to provide an indemnification for all of our prior liabilities. Management may actively negotiate or otherwise consent to the purchase of all or any portion of their shares of common stock as a condition to, or in connection with, a proposed reorganization, merger or acquisition. It is not anticipated that any such opportunity will be afforded to other stockholders or that such other stockholders will be afforded the opportunity to approve or consent to any particular stock buy-out transaction. In the event that any such fees are paid or shares are purchased, these requirements may become a factor in negotiations regarding any potential acquisition or merger by us and, accordingly, may also present a conflict of interest for such individuals. We have no definitive arrangements or understandings respecting any of these types of fees or opportunities. Any of these types of fees that are paid in shares of our common stock will also be subject to the resale limitations embodied in the recent amendments to Rule 144.

Our directors and executive officers are evaluating potential merger targets, but as of the date of this report no definitive plans for a merger are in force.

Principal Products or Services and Their Markets 

None; not applicable.

Distribution Methods of the Products or Services 

None; not applicable.

Status of any Publicly Announced New Product or Service 

None; not applicable.

Competitive Business Conditions and Smaller Reporting Company&#146;s Competitive Position in the Industry and Methods of Competition 

Management believes that there are literally thousands of shell companies engaged in endeavors similar to those engaged in by us; many of these companies have substantial current assets and cash reserves. Competitors also include thousands of other publicly-held companies whose business operations have proven unsuccessful, and whose only viable business 

opportunity is that of providing a publicly-held vehicle through which a private entity may have access to the public capital markets via a reverse reorganization or merger. There is no reasonable way to predict our competitive position or that of any other entity in these endeavors; however, we, having limited assets and no cash reserves, will no doubt be at a competitive disadvantage in competing with entities that have significant cash resources and have recent operating histories when compared with the complete lack of any substantive operations by us since 2002. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Names of Principal Suppliers 

None; not applicable.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

None; not applicable.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts, including Duration 

None; not applicable.

Need for any Governmental Approval of Principal Products or Services 

Because we currently have no business operations and produce no products nor provide any services, we are not presently subject to any governmental regulation in this regard. However, in the event that we complete a reorganization, merger or acquisition transaction with an entity that is engaged in business operations or provides products or services, we will become subject to all governmental approval requirements to which the reorganized, merged or acquired entity is subject or may become subject. 

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on the Business 

Emerging Growth Company 

We may be deemed to be an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or &#147;JOBS Act.&#148; As long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not &#147;emerging growth companies,&#148; including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and seeking nonbinding stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an &#147;emerging growth company.&#148;

Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.

We will remain an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; for up to five years, although we would cease to be an &#147;emerging growth company&#148; prior to such time if we have more than $1 billion in annual revenue, more than $700 million in market value of our common stock is held by non- &#147;affiliates&#148; or we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.

Smaller Reporting Company 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), and we are subject to the disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K of the SEC, as a &#147;smaller reporting company.&#148; That designation will relieve us of some of the informational requirements of Regulation S-K. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

We are also subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act created a strong and independent accounting oversight board to oversee the conduct of auditors of public companies and strengthens auditor independence. It also requires steps to enhance the direct responsibility of senior members of management for financial reporting and for the quality of financial disclosures made by public companies; establishes clear statutory rules to limit, 

and to expose to public view, possible conflicts of interest affecting securities analysts; creates guidelines for audit committee members&#146; appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of public companies&#146; auditors; management assessment of our internal controls; prohibits certain insider trading during pension fund blackout periods; requires companies and auditors to evaluate internal controls and procedures; and establishes a federal crime of securities fraud, among other provisions. Compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will substantially increase our legal and accounting costs.

Exchange Act Reporting Requirements 

Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act requires all companies with securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC regarding proxy solicitations, as outlined in Regulation 14A. Matters submitted to our stockholders at a special or annual meeting thereof or pursuant to a written consent will require us to provide our stockholders with the information outlined in Schedules 14A or 14C of Regulation 14; preliminary copies of this information must be submitted to the SEC at least 10 days prior to the date that definitive copies of this information are forwarded to our stockholders. 

We are required to file annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities Exchange Commission on a regular basis, and are required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and bankruptcy) in a Current Report on Form 8-K.

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Fiscal Years 

None; not applicable.

Cost and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

We do not believe that our current or intended business operations are subject to any material environmental laws, rules or regulations that would have an adverse material effect on our business operations or financial condition or result in a material compliance cost; however, we will become subject to all such governmental requirements to which the reorganized, merged or acquired entity is subject or may become subject. 

Number of Total Employees and Number of Full-Time Employees 

None.

Additional Information 

You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also find all of the reports or registration statements that we have previously filed electronically with the SEC at its Internet site at www.sec.gov. Please call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on this or other Public Reference Rooms. Our SEC reports and registration statements are also available from commercial document retrieval services, such as CCH Washington Service Bureau, whose telephone number is 1-800-955-0219.

&#160;

PART II 

