 Item 1. 

Business. 

Merck &#38; Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company&#8217;s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments. The Pharmaceutical segment is the only reportable segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck&#8217;s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company&#8217;s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company&#8217;s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. The Company was incorporated in New Jersey in 1970. 

For financial information and other information about the Company&#8217;s segments, see Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; below. 

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. 

Product Sales 

Sales of the Company&#8217;s top pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of animal health products, were as follows: 

($ in millions) 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total Sales 

$ 

39,498 

&#160; 

$ 

42,237 

&#160; 

$ 

44,033 

Pharmaceutical 

34,782 

&#160; 

36,042 

&#160; 

37,437 

Januvia 

3,863 

&#160; 

3,931 

&#160; 

4,004 

Zetia 

2,526 

&#160; 

2,650 

&#160; 

2,658 

Janumet 

2,151 

&#160; 

2,071 

&#160; 

1,829 

Gardasil/Gardasil 9 

1,908 

&#160; 

1,738 

&#160; 

1,831 

Remicade 

1,794 

&#160; 

2,372 

&#160; 

2,271 

Isentress 

1,511 

&#160; 

1,673 

&#160; 

1,643 

ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 

1,505 

&#160; 

1,394 

&#160; 

1,306 

Vytorin 

1,251 

&#160; 

1,516 

&#160; 

1,643 

Cubicin 

1,127 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Singulair 

&#160; 

1,092 

&#160; 

1,196 

Animal Health 

3,324 

&#160; 

3,454 

&#160; 

3,362 

Consumer Care (1) 

&#160; 

1,547 

&#160; 

1,894 

Other Revenues (2) 

1,389 

&#160; 

1,194 

&#160; 

1,340 

(1) &#160; 

On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. 

(2) &#160; 

Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, and third-party manufacturing sales. 

Pharmaceutical 

The Company&#8217;s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the Company&#8217;s franchises are as follows: 

Primary Care and Women&#8217;s Health 

Cardiovascular: &#32;&#32;Zetia &#32;(ezetimibe) (marketed as Ezetrol &#32;in most countries outside the United States); and Vytorin &#32;(ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as Inegy &#32;outside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines. 

Diabetes: &#32;&#32;Januvia &#32;(sitagliptin) and Janumet &#32;(sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 

General Medicine and Women&#8217;s Health: &#32;&#32;NuvaRing &#32;(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive product ; Implanon &#32;(etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant/ Nexplanon &#32;(etonogestrel implant), a single, radiopaque, rod-shaped subdermal contraceptive implant; Dulera &#32;Inhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma; and Follistim AQ &#32;(follitropin beta injection) (marketed as Puregon &#32;in most countries outside the United States), a fertility treatment. 

Hospital and Specialty 

Hepatitis: Zepatier &#32;(elbasvir and grazoprevir), approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in January 2016, for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin; and PegIntron &#32;(peginterferon alpha-2b) and Victrelis &#32;(boceprevir), medicines for the treatment of chronic HCV. 

HIV: &#32;&#32;Isentress &#32;(raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 

Hospital Acute Care: Cubicin ( daptomycin for injection), an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible organisms; Cancidas &#32;(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product; Invanz &#32;(ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections; Noxafil &#32;(posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections; Bridion &#32;(sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; and Primaxin &#32;(imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product. 

Immunology: Remicade &#32;(infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, and Simponi &#32;(golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey. 

Oncology 

Keytruda &#32;(pembrolizumab) for the treatment of advanced melanoma and metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with disease progression following other therapies; Emend &#32;(aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting; and Temodar &#32;(temozolomide) (marketed as Temodal &#32;outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors. 

Diversified Brands 

Respiratory: Singulair &#32;(montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; Nasonex &#32;(mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms; and Clarinex &#32;(desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine . 

Other: Cozaar &#32;(losartan potassium) and Hyzaar &#32;(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension; Arcoxia &#32;(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain, which the Company markets outside the United States; Fosamax &#32;(alendronate sodium) (marketed as Fosamac &#32;in Japan) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis ; Zocor &#32;(simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol; and Propecia &#32;(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss. 

Vaccines 

Gardasil &#32;(Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/ Gardasil 9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV) ; ProQuad &#32;(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M-M-R &#32;II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax &#32;(Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Zostavax &#32;(Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) ; RotaTeq &#32;(Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and Pneumovax &#32;23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. 

Animal Health 

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal products in this segment include: 

Livestock Products: &#32;&#32;Nuflor &#32;antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis / Vista &#32;vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine &#32;bovine and swine anti-inflammatory; Estrumate &#32;for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Matrix &#32;fertility management for swine; Resflor, a &#32;combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zuprevo &#32;for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax &#32;and Revalor &#32;to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; Safe-Guard &#32;de-wormer for cattle; M+Pac swine pneumonia vaccine; and Porcilis &#32;and Circumvent &#32;vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine. 

Poultry Products: &#32;&#32;Nobilis / Innovax, &#32;vaccine lines for poultry; and Paracox &#32;and Coccivac &#32;coccidiosis vaccines. 

Companion Animal Products: Bravecto , a chewable tablet that kills fleas and ticks in dogs for up to 12 weeks; Nobivac &#32;vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax / Mometamax / Posatex &#32;ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin / Vetsulin &#32;diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur / Safeguard &#32;broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; Regumate &#32;fertility management for horses; Prestige &#32;vaccine line for horses; and Activyl/Scalibor/Exspot &#32;for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies. 

Aquaculture Products: &#32;&#32;Slice &#32;parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac / Norvax &#32;vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD &#32;vaccine for salmon; and Aquaflor &#32;antibiotic for farm-raised fish. 

For a further discussion of sales of the Company&#8217;s products, see Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; below. 

Product Approvals 

In January 2016, Merck announced that the FDA approved Zepatier &#32;for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. 

In December 2015, Merck announced that the FDA approved an expanded age indication for Gardasil &#32;9, Merck&#8217;s 9-valent HPV vaccine, to include use in males 16 through 26 years of age for the prevention of anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions and genital warts caused by certain HPV types. Gardasil &#32;9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine. 

Also, in December 2015, the Company announced that the FDA approved an expanded indication for Keytruda , an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Additionally, the FDA approved an update to the product labeling for Keytruda &#32;for the treatment of patients with ipilimumab-refractory advanced melanoma. 

In October 2015, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Keytruda &#32;at a dose of 2mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving Keytruda . In addition to approving Keytruda &#32;for NSCLC, the FDA approved the first companion diagnostic that will enable physicians to determine the level of PD-L1 expression in a patient&#8217;s tumor. 

In September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved Marizev &#32;(omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets, an oral, once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. 

Joint Ventures 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD 

In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M&#233;rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing European Union (EU) and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur M&#233;rieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.) (SPMSD). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (UK) and through distributors in the rest of its territory. 

Licenses 

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (Centocor), a Johnson &#38; Johnson (J&#38;J) company, to market Remicade , which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough&#8217;s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize Simponi , a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has marketing rights to both products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey. In 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both Remicade &#32;and Simponi , extending the Company&#8217;s rights to exclusively market Remicade &#32;to match the duration of the Company&#8217;s exclusive marketing rights for Simponi . In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to Simponi &#8217;s auto-injector delivery system. In 2009, the European Commission (EC) approved Simponi &#32;as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations &#8212; a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company&#8217;s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of Simponi &#32;in the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. Remicade &#32;lost market exclusivity in major European markets in February 2015 and the Company no longer has market exclusivity in any of its marketing territories. The Company continues to have market exclusivity for Simponi &#32;in all of its marketing territories. All profits derived from Merck&#8217;s distribution of the two products in these countries are equally divided between Merck and J&#38;J. 

Competition and the Health Care Environment 

Competition 

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company&#8217;s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company&#8217;s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company&#8217;s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors&#8217; branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. 

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address 

changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company&#8217;s products in that therapeutic category. 

The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company&#8217;s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. 

Health Care Environment and Government Regulation 

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 

Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called &#8220;donut hole&#8221;). Approximately $550 million, $430 million and $280 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $173 million, $390 million and $151 million of costs within Marketing and administrative &#32;expenses in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The higher expenses in 2014 reflect final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. On January 21, 2016, the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services issued the Medicaid Rebate Final Rule that implements provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. Merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on Merck&#8217;s Medicaid rebate liability. 

The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company&#8217;s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. 

In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of 

medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. 

Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company&#8217;s revenue performance in 2015 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company&#8217;s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations. 

In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which will occur again in 2016. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules. 

Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. 

The Company&#8217;s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2016 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. 

Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company&#8217;s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company&#8217;s risk exposure. 

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens&#8217; access to appropriate health care, including medicines. 

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company&#8217;s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. 

The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement. 

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the &#8220;breakthrough therapy&#8221; designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. 

The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company&#8217;s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company&#8217;s business. 

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. (See &#8220;Research and Development&#8221; below for a discussion of the regulatory approval process.) 

Access to Medicines 

As a global health care company, Merck&#8217;s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company&#8217;s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company&#8217;s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company&#8217;s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck launched &#8220;Merck for Mothers,&#8221; a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Merck has also provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. 

Privacy and Data Protection 

The Company is subject to a significant number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally, many of which place restrictions on the Company&#8217;s ability to efficiently transfer, access and use personal data across its business. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company&#8217;s business, including a new EU General Data Protection Regulation, which will become effective in 2018 and impose penalties up to four percent of global revenue, additional laws and regulations enacted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets, and increased regulatory cooperation among privacy authorities globally. The Company has adopted a comprehensive global privacy program to manage these evolving risks which has been certified as compliant with the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Cross-Border Privacy Rules System and is under regulatory review in the EU. 

In October 2015, the Court of Justice of the EU invalidated a 2000 decision of the EC, which had held that the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework (Safe Harbor) provided adequate protection for transfers of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. Merck had annually self-certified adherence to the Safe Harbor since 2001 and relied on the Safe Harbor for a significant number of data transfers across its business. Since November 2014, Merck has been working toward regulatory recognition of its global privacy program as meeting the EU&#8217;s binding corporate rules requirements, an alternative legal mechanism for internal company transfers. At the end of January 2016, EU review for the Company&#8217;s binding corporate rules application was completed for the 21 EU member states that participate in the EU mutual recognition process. Completion of the final EU cooperation review phase is expected in the first quarter of 2016. Binding corporate rules approval in the EU is expected to reduce the operational impact of the Safe Harbor invalidation on our global business. Cross-border data transfers to third parties that support the Company&#8217;s business will not be directly facilitated by its binding corporate rules, once approved. However, the Company anticipates that the standards its global privacy program has met through its binding corporate rules review will support its ability to comply with the new EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, a transatlantic data transfer agreement to replace the Safe Harbor, which was announced on February 2, 2016, as well as to continue to implement other data transfer mechanisms as necessary to support its business. 

Distribution 

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company&#8217;s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company&#8217;s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. 

Raw Materials 

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company&#8217;s business. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company&#8217;s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. 

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA. 

Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including the potential for Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity where indicated) for the following marketed products: 

Product 

Year of Expiration (in the U.S.) (1) 

Invanz 

2016 (compound)/2017 (composition) 

Cubicin (2) 

2016 (composition) 

Zostavax 

2016 (use) 

Dulera 

2017 (formulation)/2020 (combination) 

Zetia (3) /Vytorin 

Asmanex 

2018 (formulation) 

Nasonex (4) 

2018 (formulation) 

NuvaRing 

2018 (delivery system) 

Emend for Injection (5) 

Noxafil (5) 

RotaTeq 

Intron A 

Recombivax 

2020 (method of making/vectors) 

Januvia (5) /Janumet (5) /Janumet XR (5) 

Isentress (5) 

Bridion (5) 

2026 (with pending Patent Term Restoration) 

Nexplanon 

2026 (device)/2027 (device with applicator) 

Grastek 

2026 (use) 

Ragwitek 

2026 (use) 

Bravecto 

2027 (with pending Patent Term Restoration) 

Zontivity (5) 

2027 (with pending Patent Term Restoration) 

Gardasil/Gardasil 9 

Keytruda 

Zerbaxa (5) 

2028 (with pending Patent Term Restoration) 

Sivextro (5) 

2028 (with pending Patent Term Restoration) 

Belsomra (5) 

Zepatier (5) 

(1) &#160; 

Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; Note 10. &#8220;Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities&#8221; below. 

(2) &#160; 

In a December 2014 decision of a district court action against Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), the June 2016 patent was found to be valid and infringed. Later patents for Cubicin , expiring in September 2019 and November 2020, were found to be invalid. In November 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC) affirmed the lower court decision. Hospira&#8217;s application to the FDA will not be approved until at least June 2016. An earlier district court action against Teva resulted in a settlement whereby Teva can launch a generic version of Cubicin &#32;at the latest in December 2017, or earlier under certain conditions, but in no event before June 2016. 

(3) &#160; 

By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of Zetia &#32;in the United States in December 2016. 

(4) &#160; 

A district court decision (upheld on appeal to the CAFC) found that a proposed generic product by Apotex, a generic manufacturer, would not infringe on Merck&#8217;s Nasonex &#32;formulation patent. Thus, if Apotex&#8217;s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the market in the United States with a generic version of Nasonex . 

(5) &#160; 

Eligible for 6 months Pediatric Exclusivity. 

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an 

increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. 

The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity. &#160; 

Under Review 

Currently Anticipated 

Year of Expiration (in the U.S.) 

V419 (pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine) 

2020 (method of making/vectors) 

MK-6072 (bezlotoxumab) 

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase 3 development: &#160; 

Phase 3 Drug Candidate 

Currently Anticipated 

Year of Expiration (in the U.S.) 

V212 (inactivated varicella zoster virus (VZV) vaccine) 

2016 (use) 

V920 (ebola vaccine) 

MK-0822 (odanacatib) 

MK-8228 (letermovir) 

MK-8237 (allergy, house dust mites) 

2026 (use) 

MK-0859 (anacetrapib) 

MK-7655A (relebactam + imipenem/cilastatin) 

MK-3102 (omarigliptin) 

MK-8931 (verubecestat) 

MK-8835 (ertugliflozin) 

MK-8835A (ertugliflozin + sitagliptin) 

MK-8835B (ertugliflozin + metformin) 

MK-1439 (doravirine) 

MK-8342B (contraception, next generation ring) 

Unless otherwise noted, the patents in the above charts are compound patents. Each patent is subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be available. In addition, depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product. Also, regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in some cases, may provide more effective or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound&#8217;s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs five years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to seven years for an orphan drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product. 

For further information with respect to the Company&#8217;s patents, see Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; Note 10. &#8220;Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities&#8221; below. 

Worldwide, all of the Company&#8217;s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. 

Royalty income in 2015 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $221 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.2 billion in 2015 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. 

Research and Development 

The Company&#8217;s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 11,900 people are employed in the Company&#8217;s research activities. Research and development expenses were $6.7 billion in 2015, $7.2 billion in 2014 and 

$7.5 billion in 2013 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition and divestiture-related costs in all years). The Company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. 

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company&#8217;s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company&#8217;s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. The Company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. 

The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. The Company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. 

The Company&#8217;s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women&#8217;s health. 

In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug Application (NDA) for a drug or the Biologics License Application (BLA) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval. 

Once the Company&#8217;s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound&#8217;s usefulness. In some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. One type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a Phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a Phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. If data from the Phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase 3 trials to confirm the compound&#8217;s efficacy and safety. Another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a Phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a Phase 3 trial. An adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. Upon completion of Phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. 

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine&#8217;s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory 

filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. 

In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA or BLA is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. Within 60 days after receipt, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act V (PDUFA), the FDA review period target for NDAs or original BLAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. Once the review timelines are determined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the Company&#8217;s own initiative or the FDA&#8217;s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a Complete Response Letter (CRL) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the FDA has identified. Should the Company wish to pursue an application after receiving a CRL, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the FDA in order to support approval. Resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. 

The FDA has four program designations &#8212; Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval, and Priority Review &#8212; to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product&#8217;s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the NDA/BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product&#8217;s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA&#8217;s goal is to take action on the NDA/BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. 

In addition, under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified Infectious Disease Product (QIDP) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. QIDP designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including Priority Review of the NDA when filed, eligibility for Fast Track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 

The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the &#8220;centralized procedure.&#8221; This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a &#8220;mutual recognition procedure&#8221; in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. 

Outside of the United States and the EU, the Company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. Examples of such are the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan, Health Canada, Ag&#234;ncia Nacional de Vigil&#226;ncia Sanat&#225;ria in Brazil, Korea Food and Drug Administration in South Korea, Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia and China Food and Drug Administration. Each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. In many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval 

in a major market, such as the United States or the EU, and issuance of a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product from that market before initiating their local review process. 

Research and Development Update 

The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States or internationally. 

Keytruda &#32;is an FDA-approved anti-PD-1 therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types. Keytruda &#32;is currently approved for the treatment of melanoma, advanced melanoma and NSCLC. 

In December 2015, Merck announced results from the pivotal KEYNOTE-010 study to evaluate the potential of an immunotherapy compared to chemotherapy based on prospective measurement of PD-L1 expression in patients with advanced NSCLC. In the Phase 2/3 study, Keytruda &#32;significantly improved overall survival compared to chemotherapy in patients with any level of PD-L1 expression. Based on these data, Merck has submitted a supplemental BLA to the FDA and has filed an MAA with the EMA. 

In November 2015, Merck announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to Keytruda &#32;for the treatment of patients with microsatellite instability high metastatic colorectal cancer. Keytruda &#32;was previously granted Breakthrough Therapy status for advanced melanoma and advanced NSCLC. 

The Keytruda &#32;clinical development program consists of more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine Keytruda &#32;with other cancer treatments. These studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, multiple myeloma, non-small-cell lung, and triple negative breast, several of which are currently in Phase 3 clinical development. 

MK-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of Clostridium difficile &#32; (C. difficile) infection recurrence currently under review with the FDA and EMA. In January 2016, Merck announced that the FDA accepted for review the BLA for bezlotoxumab and granted Priority Review with a PDUFA action date of July 23, 2016. In September 2015, Merck announced that the two pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies for bezlotoxumab met their primary efficacy endpoint: the reduction in C. difficile &#32;recurrence through week 12 compared to placebo, when used in conjunction with standard of care antibiotics for the treatment of C. difficile . The Company is also seeking approval in the EU and intends to file in Canada in 2016. Currently, there are no therapies approved for the prevention of recurrent disease caused by C. difficile . 

MK-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in collaboration with Samsung Bioepis. In December 2015, the Company submitted an application for regulatory approval in the EU and plans to submit MK-1293 to the FDA in 2016. 

MK-5172A, &#32;Zepatier , currently under review in the EU for the treatment of chronic HCV, is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the NS5A inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the NS3/4A protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg). Zepatier &#32;was approved by the FDA in January 2016 for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. 

V419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, DTaP5-IPV-Hib-HepB, under review with the FDA that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of Merck and Sanofi Pasteur. This vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae &#32;type b (Hib), and hepatitis B. On November 2, 2015, the FDA issued a CRL with respect to the BLA for V419. Both companies are reviewing the CRL and plan to have further communication with the FDA. In February 2016, the EC granted marketing authorization for V419 for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, and invasive disease caused by Hib, in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. V419 will be marketed as Vaxelis &#32;in the EU through SPMSD, the Company&#8217;s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur. 

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has several drug candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in addition to the Keytruda &#32;programs discussed above. The Company anticipates filing applications for regulatory approval with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2016, including MK-1293 as noted above. 

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. 

Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2014, Merck announced data from the pivotal Phase 3 fracture outcomes study for odanacatib in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. In the Long-Term Odanacatib Fracture Trial (LOFT), odanacatib met its primary endpoints and significantly reduced the risk of three types of osteoporotic fractures (radiographically-assessed vertebral, clinical hip, and clinical non-vertebral) compared to placebo and also reduced the risk of the secondary endpoint of clinical vertebral fractures. In addition, treatment with odanacatib led to progressive increases over five years in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and total hip. The rates of adverse events overall in LOFT were generally balanced between patients taking odanacatib and placebo. Adjudicated events of morphea-like skin lesions and atypical femoral fractures occurred more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. Adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events were generally balanced overall between the treatment groups. There were numerically more adjudicated stroke events with odanacatib than with placebo. Adjudicated atrial fibrillation was reported more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. A numeric imbalance in mortality was observed; this numeric difference does not appear to be related to a particular reported cause or causes of death. Merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), in support of regulatory submissions. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for odanacatib in 2016 following completion of the independent adjudication and analysis of MACE. Merck also plans to submit applications to the EMA and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare in Japan. 

MK-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. In September 2015, the Company announced that omarigliptin achieved its primary efficacy endpoint in a Phase 3 study. Omarigliptin was found to be non-inferior to Januvia , at reducing patients&#8217; A1C (an estimate of a person&#8217;s blood glucose over a two-to three-month period) levels from baseline, with similar A1C reductions achieved in both groups. The head-to-head study was designed to evaluate once-weekly treatment with omarigliptin 25 mg compared to 100 mg of Januvia &#32;once daily. Results were presented during an oral session at the 51st European Association for the Study of Diabetes Annual Meeting. Also, in September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved Marizev &#32;(omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. Merck plans to submit omarigliptin for regulatory approval in the United States in 2016. Other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. 

MK-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with Pfizer Inc. Ertugliflozin is also being studied in combination with Januvia &#32;(sitagliptin) and metformin. Merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the United States for ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combination tablets by the end of 2016. 

MK-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy that is part of a North America partnership between Merck and ALK-Abello. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for MK-8237 in the first half of 2016. 

MK-8931, verubecestat, is Merck&#8217;s novel investigational oral &#223;-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer&#8217;s disease being studied in a Phase 3 trial (APECS) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer&#8217;s disease, also known as prodromal Alzheimer&#8217;s disease. MK-8931 is also being studied in another Phase 2/3 randomized, placebo-controlled, study in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer&#8217;s disease (EPOCH). The EPOCH study completed enrollment in the fourth quarter of 2015 and is estimated to reach primary trial completion in mid-2017. 

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) in development for raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C. Anacetrapib is being evaluated in a 30,000 patient, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial sponsored by Oxford University, REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease, which is projected to conclude in early 2017. In November 2015, Merck announced that the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) of the REVEAL outcomes study completed its planned review of unblinded study data and recommended the study continue with no changes. The DMC reviewed safety and efficacy data from the study, which included an assessment of futility. Merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other REVEAL safety and efficacy data. 

The REVEAL Steering Committee and Merck will continue to monitor the progress of the study. No additional interim efficacy analyses are planned. 

MK-7655A is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). The FDA has designated this combination a QIDP with designated Fast Track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. 

MK-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of Human Cytomegalovirus infection. Letermovir has received Orphan Drug Status in the EU and in the United States, where it has also been granted Fast Track designation. 

MK-8342B, referred to as the Next Generation Ring, is an investigational combination (etonogestrel and 17&#946;-estradiol) vaginal ring for contraception and the treatment of dysmenorrhea in women seeking contraception. 

MK-0431J is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under development for commercialization in Japan in collaboration with Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas). Ipragliflozin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, co-developed by Astellas and Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Kotobuki), is approved for use in Japan and is being co-promoted with Merck and Kotobuki. 

V920 is an investigational rVSV-ZEBOV (Ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale Phase 2/3 clinical trials currently underway in West Africa. In November 2014, Merck and NewLink Genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational Ebola vaccine. In December 2015, Merck announced that the application for Emergency Use Assessment and Listing (EUAL) for V920 has been accepted for review by the World Health Organization (WHO). According to the WHO, the EUAL process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of Ebola. The procedure is intended to assist United Nations&#8217; procurement agencies and Member States on the acceptability of using a vaccine candidate in an emergency-use setting. EUAL designation is not prequalification by the WHO, but rather is a special procedure implemented when there is an outbreak of a disease with high rates of morbidity and/or mortality and a lack of treatment and/or prevention options. In such instances, the WHO may recommend making a vaccine available for a limited time, while further clinical trial data are being gathered for formal regulatory agency review by a national regulatory authority. The decision to grant V920 EUAL status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. While EUAL designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. 

V212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus (VZV) vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is conducting two Phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. 

MK-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by Merck for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 

In 2015, the Company also divested or discontinued certain drug candidates. 

In July 2015, Merck and Allergan plc (Allergan) entered into an agreement pursuant to which Allergan acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to MK-1602 and MK-8031, Merck&#8217;s investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine. 

MK-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment of C. difficile &#32;associated diarrhea. Merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of Cubist. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a randomized, double-blinded, active-controlled study in patients with C. difficile &#32;associated diarrhea. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program. 

MK-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. Merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of Cubist. The Company has made the decision not to continue development of this program and is seeking to out-license the asset. 

MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. In July 2014, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for its NDA for corifollitropin alfa injection. Merck has made a decision to discontinue development of corifollitropin alfa injection in the United States for business reasons. Corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed as Elonva &#32;in certain markets outside of the United States. 

The chart below reflects the Company&#8217;s research pipeline as of February 19, 2016. Candidates shown in Phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase 3 development. Candidates shown in Phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Except as otherwise noted, candidates in Phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. 

Phase 2 

Phase 3 (Phase 3 entry date) 

Under Review 

Alzheimer&#8217;s Disease 

MK-7622 

Asthma 

MK-1029 

Cancer 

MK-3475 Keytruda 

Hodgkin Lymphoma 

PMBCL (Primary Mediastinal 

Large B-Cell Lymphoma) 

Advanced Solid Tumors 

MK-2206 

MK-8628 

Diabetes 

MK-8521 

Heart Failure 

MK-1242 (vericiguat) (1) 

Hepatitis C 

MK-3682B (MK-3682/MK-8408/ 

MK-5172 (grazoprevir)) 

Pneumoconjugate Vaccine 

V114 

Allergy 

MK-8237, House Dust Mite (March 2014) (1,2) 

Alzheimer&#8217;s Disease 

MK-8931 (verubecestat) (December 2013) 

Atherosclerosis 

MK-0859 (anacetrapib) (May 2008) 

Bacterial Infection 

MK-7655A (relebactam+imipenem/cilastatin) 

(October 2015) 

Cancer 

MK-3475 Keytruda 

Bladder (October 2014) 

Breast (October 2015) 

Colorectal (November 2015) 

Esophageal (December 2015) 

Gastric (May 2015) 

Head and Neck (November 2014) 

Multiple Myeloma (December 2015) 

CMV Prophylaxis in Transplant Patients 

MK-8228 (letermovir) (June 2014) 

Contraception, Next Generation Ring 

MK-8342B (September 2015) 

Diabetes Mellitus 

MK-3102 (omarigliptin) (September 2012) 

MK-8835 (ertugliflozin) (November 2013) (1) 

MK-8835A (ertugliflozin+sitagliptin) 

(September 2015) (1) 

MK-8835B (ertugliflozin+metformin) 

(August 2015) (1) 

MK-1293 (February 2014) (U.S.) (1) 

MK-0431J (sitagliptin+ipragliflozin) 

(October 2015) (Japan) (1) 

Ebola Vaccine 

V920 (March 2015) 

Herpes Zoster 

V212 (inactivated VZV vaccine) (December 2010) 

HIV 

MK-1439 (doravirine) (December 2014) 

Osteoporosis 

MK-0822 (odanacatib) (September 2007) 

Cancer 

MK-3475 Keytruda 

Non-Small-Cell Lung (EU) 

Clostridium difficile Infection 

MK-6072 (bezlotoxumab) (U.S./EU) 

Diabetes Mellitus 

MK-1293 (EU) (1) 

Hepatitis C 

MK-5172A Zepatier &#160;(EU) 

Pediatric Hexavalent Combination Vaccine 

V419 (U.S.) (3) 

Footnotes: 

(1) Being developed in a collaboration. 

(2) North American rights only. 

(3) &#160; V419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, DTaP5-IPV-Hib-HepB, that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of Merck and Sanofi Pasteur. On November 2, 2015, the FDA issued a CRL with respect to V419. Both companies are reviewing the CRL and plan to have further communication with the FDA. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,200 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 32% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. 

2013 Restructuring Program 

In 2013, the Company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 Restructuring Program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. The actions under 

this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. Additionally, these actions include the reduction of the Company&#8217;s global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. Since inception of the 2013 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2015, Merck has eliminated approximately 8,630 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. 

Merger Restructuring Program 

In 2010, subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough merger (Merger), the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. Further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2015, Merck has eliminated approximately 29,645 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The non-facility related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are substantially completed. 

Environmental Matters 

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $8 million in 2015, and are estimated at $59 million in the aggregate for the years 2016 through 2020. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management&#8217;s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $109 million and $125 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $57 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. 

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company&#8217;s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company&#8217;s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. 

Geographic Area Information 

The Company&#8217;s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States as a percentage of total Company sales were 56% of sales in 2015, 60% of sales in 2014 and 59% of sales in 2013. 

The Company&#8217;s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. 

Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. 

Financial information about geographic areas of the Company&#8217;s business is provided in Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; below. 

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s Internet website address is www.merck.com . &#32;The Company will make available, free of charge at the &#8220;Investors&#8221; portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). 

The Company&#8217;s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors&#8217; four standing committees are available on the Company&#8217;s website at www.merck.com/about/leadership &#32;and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company. 

