 Item 1. Business 

Overview &#8212; MSA was founded in Pennsylvania in 1914. We are a global leader in the development, manufacture and supply of safety products that protect people and facility insfrastuctures. Our safety products typically integrate a combination of electronics, mechanical systems and advanced materials to protect users against hazardous or life threatening situations. Our comprehensive line of safety products is used by workers around the world in a broad range of markets including the oil and gas, fire service, construction and mining industries. We also sell products designed for specific industrial and military applications. The company's core products include self-contained breathing apparatus ("SCBA"), fixed gas and flame detection systems, portable gas detection instruments, industrial head protection, fire and rescue helmets, and fall protection devices. 

We dedicate significant resources to research and development, which allows us to produce innovative safety products that are often first to market and exceed industry standards. Our global product development teams include cross-geographic and cross-functional members from various areas throughout the company, including research and development, marketing, sales, operations and quality management. Our engineers and technical associates work closely with the safety industry&#8217;s leading standards-setting groups and trade associations to develop industry specific product requirements and standards and to anticipate their impact on our product lines. 

Segments &#8212; We tailor our product offerings and distribution strategy to satisfy distinct customer preferences that vary across geographic regions. To best serve these customer preferences, we have organized our business into seven geographic operating segments that are aggregated into four reportable geographic segments: North America, Europe, International and Corporate. Segment information is presented in the note entitled &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; in Item 8&#8212;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars and much of our business is conducted outside the U.S., currency fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. 

Products &#8212; We manufacture and sell a comprehensive line of safety products to protect the safety of workers and facility infrustructures around the world in the oil and gas, fire service, construction, and mining industries. We also sell products designed for specific industrial and military applications. Our products protect people against a wide variety of hazardous or life-threatening situations. 

The following is a brief description of each of our product categories: 

Core products. MSA's corporate strategy includes a focus on driving sales of core products, which have leading market positions and a competitive advantage. These products typically realize a higher gross profit margin than non-core products. Core products, as mentioned above, include fixed gas and flame detection systems, breathing apparatus where SCBA is the principal product, portable gas detection instruments, industrial head protection products, fire and rescue helmets and fall protection devices. These products receive the highest levels of investment and resources as they typically realize a higher gross profit margin and provide higher levels of return on investment than non-core products. Core products comprised approximately 81% of sales in 2015 compared to 78% in 2014. 

The following is a brief description of our core product offerings: 

Fixed gas and flame detection instruments ("FGFD"). &#32;Our permanently installed fixed gas and flame detection instruments are used in oil, gas and petrochemical facilities and general industrial production facilities to detect the presence or absence of various gases in the air. Typical applications of these instruments include the detection of an oxygen deficiency in confined spaces or the presence of combustible or toxic gases. FGFD product lines have a meaningful portion of overall revenue generated from recurring business including replacement components and related service. A portion of business from this product line is project oriented and more associated with upstream exploration and production activity. Our strongest sales of these instruments have historically been in North America, Western Europe, Middle East and China. Key products include: 

&#8226; 

Multi-point permanently installed gas detection systems. This product line is used to monitor for combustible and toxic gases and oxygen deficiency in virtually any application where continuous monitoring is required. Our systems are used for gas detection in petrochemical, pulp and paper, wastewater, refrigerant monitoring, and general industrial applications. These systems utilize a wide array of sensing technologies including electrochemical, catalytic, infrared and ultrasonic. 

&#8226; 

Flame detectors and open-path infrared gas detectors. These instruments are used for plant-wide monitoring of toxic gases and for detecting the presence of flames. These systems use infrared optics to detect potentially hazardous conditions across long distances, making them suitable for use in such applications as offshore oil rigs, storage vessels, refineries, pipelines and ventilation ducts. First used in the oil and gas industry, our systems now have broad applications in petrochemical facilities, the transportation industry and in pharmaceutical production. 

Breathing apparatus products. &#32;Breathing apparatus products include SCBA, face masks and respirators, where SCBA is the primary product offering. SCBA are used by first responders, petrochemical plant workers and anyone entering an environment deemed immediately dangerous to life and health. Our newest breathing apparatus product, the MSA G1 SCBA, is an entirely redesigned platform that offers many customizable and differentiated features. We currently have 3 patents issued and an additional 10 patents pending for this product. Our strongest sales of breathing apparatus products have historically been in North America, across Western Europe and in China. 

Portable gas detection instruments. &#32;Our hand-held portable gas detection instruments are used to detect the presence or absence of various gases in the air. The product is used by oil, gas and petrochemical workers; general industry workers; miners; first responders or anyone working in a confined space environment. Typical applications of these instruments include the detection of an oxygen deficiency in confined spaces or the presence of combustible or toxic gases. Our single- and multi-gas detectors provide portable solutions for detecting the presence of oxygen, combustible gases and various toxic gases, including hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide, ammonia and chlorine, either singularly or up to six gases at once. Our ALTAIR &#174; &#32;2X Single or Two Gas Detectors; ALTAIR &#174; &#32;4X and ALTAIR &#174; &#32;5X Multigas Detectors with XCell &#174; &#32;sensor technology, which include internally developed sensors, provide faster response times and unsurpassed durability in a tough, easy-to-operate package. The ALTAIR &#174; &#32;2XP provides users with unique and significant cost of ownership advantages over competitive offerings by giving users the ability to perform their own daily bump test to make sure the instrument is functioning properly. Our strongest sales of portable gas detection instruments have historically been in North America, across Western Europe and in Latin America. 

Head protection. &#32;We offer a complete line of industrial head protection that includes the iconic V-Gard &#174; &#32;helmet brand, a bellwether product in MSA's portfolio for over 50 years. We offer customers a wide range of color choices and we are a world leader in the application of customized logos. Our industrial head protection has a wide user base including oil, gas and petrochemical workers, steel and construction workers, miners and industrial workers. Our Fas-Trac &#174; &#32;III Suspension system was designed to provide comfort for the users of our helmets without sacrificing safety. Our strongest sales of head protection products have historically been in North America and Brazil. 

Fire and rescue helmets. &#32;We offer a complete line of fire helmets that includes our Cairns &#174; &#32;and Gallet &#174; &#32;helmet brands. Our Cairns helmets are primarily used by firefighters in North America while the Gallet helmets are used by firefighters across our European and International segments. Rescue helmets including the F2 X-Trem Brand, are used by military and first responders outside of North America. Our strongest sales of fire and rescue helmets have historically been in North America and Western Europe. 

Fall protection. &#32;Our broad line of fall protection equipment includes confined space equipment, harnesses, fall arrest equipment, lanyards and lifelines. Fall protection equipment is used by workers in the construction industry, oil, gas and petrochemical market, utilities industry and general industrial applications, and anyone working at height. Our strongest sales of fall protection equipment have historically been in North America. In October 2015, MSA acquired UK-based Latchways plc ("Latchways"). This acquisition - complementary from a product, geographic and end market standpoint - is expected to double our fall protection revenue, positioning MSA as one of the largest fall protection providers globally. 

Non-core products. MSA maintains a portfolio of non-core products which includes both adjacent and peripheral offerings. Adjacent products reinforce and extend the core, drawing upon our customer relationships, distribution channels, geographical presence and technical experience. These products are complimentary to the core offerings and have their roots within the core product value chain. Key adjacent products include respirators, eye and face protection, thermal imaging cameras, and gas masks. Gas masks and ballistic helmet sales are the primary purchases from our military customers and were approximately $56 million globally in 2015. Peripheral products are primarily sold to the mining industry and reflect a small portion of consolidated sales. 

Customers &#8212; Our customers generally fall into three categories: distributors, industrial or military end-users, and retail consumers. In North America, the majority of our sales are made through our distributors. In our European and International segments, sales are made through both indirect and direct sales channels. For the year ended December 31, 2015, no individual customer represented more than 10% of our sales. 

Sales and Distribution &#8212; Our sales and distribution team consists of marketing, field sales and customer service organizations. In most geographic areas, our field sales organizations work jointly with select distributors to call on end-users and educate them about hazards, exposure limits, safety requirements and product applications, as well as the specific performance attributes of our products. In our South Africa and Eastern Europe regions, where distributors are not as well established, our sales associates often work with and sell directly to end-users. We believe that understanding end-user requirements is critical to increasing MSA's market share. 

The in-depth customer training and education provided by our sales associates to our customers is critical to ensuring proper use of many of our products, such as SCBA and gas detection instruments. As a result of our sales associates working closely with end-users, they gain valuable insight into customer preferences and needs. To better serve our customers and to ensure that our sales associates are among the most knowledgeable and professional in the industry, we place significant emphasis on training our sales associates in product application, industry standards and regulations. 

We believe our sales and distribution strategy allows us to deliver a customer value proposition that differentiates our products and services from those of our competitors, resulting in increased customer loyalty and demand. 

In areas where we use indirect selling, we promote, distribute and service our products to general industry through authorized national, regional and local distributors. Some of our key distributors include W.W. Grainger Inc., Airgas, Sonepar, Bunzl and Fastenal. In North America, we distribute fire service products primarily through specially trained local and regional distributors who provide advanced training and service capabilities to volunteer and paid municipal fire departments. In our European and International segments, we primarily sell to and service the fire service market directly. Because of our broad and diverse product line and our desire to reach as many markets and market segments as possible, we have over 4,000 authorized distributor locations worldwide. No individual distributor accounts for more than 10% of our sales. 

Competition &#8212; The global safety products market is broad and highly fragmented with few participants offering a comprehensive line of safety products. The sophisticated safety products market in which we compete is comprised of both core and non-core offerings - and is a subset of the larger personal protection equipment market, and generates estimated annual sales of approximately $12 billion. We maintain leading positions in all of our core products. Over the long-term, we believe global demand for safety products will continue to grow. Purchases of these products are non-discretionary, protecting workers' health in hazardous and life-threatening work environments. Their use is often mandated by government and industry regulations, which are increasingly enforced on a global basis. 

The safety products market is highly competitive, with participants ranging in size from small companies focusing on a single type of personal protection equipment to several large multinational corporations that manufacture and supply many types of sophisticated safety products. Our main competitors vary by region and product. We believe that participants in this industry compete primarily on the basis of product characteristics (such as functional performance, agency approvals, design and style), brand name recognition, service support and price. 

We believe we compete favorably within each of our operating segments as a result of our high quality, our innovative offerings and strong brand trust and recognition. 

Research and Development &#8212; To maintain our position at the forefront of safety equipment technology, we operate several sophisticated research and development facilities. We believe our dedication and commitment to innovation and research and development allows us to produce state-of-the-art safety products that are often first to market and exceed industry standards. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, on a global basis, we spent $48.6 million, $48.2 million and $45.9 million, respectively, on research and development, reflecting 4.3%, 4.3% and 4.1% of sales respectively. Our primary engineering groups are located in the United States, Germany, China and France. Our global product development teams include cross-geographic and cross-functional members from various areas throughout the company, including research and development, marketing, sales, operations and quality management. These teams are responsible for setting product line strategy based on their understanding of customers' needs and available technology, as well as the opportunities and challenges they foresee in each product area. We believe our team-based, cross-geographic and cross-functional approach to new product development is a source of competitive advantage. Our approach to the new product development process allows us to tailor our product offerings and product line strategies to satisfy distinct customer preferences and industry regulations that vary across our operating segments. 

We believe another important aspect of our approach to new product development is that our engineers and technical associates work closely with the safety industry&#8217;s leading standards-setting groups and trade associations. These organizations include the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health ("NIOSH"), the National Fire Protection Association ("NFPA"), American National Standards Institute ("ANSI"), International Safety Equipment Association ("ISEA"), and their overseas counterparts. We work with these organizations to develop industry specific product requirements and standards and anticipate their impact on our product lines. Key members of our management team understand the impact that these standard-setting organizations have on our new product development pipeline. As such, management devotes significant time and attention to anticipating a new standard&#8217;s impact on our sales and operating results. Because of our understanding of customer needs, membership on global standard-setting bodies, investment in research and development and our unique new product development process, we believe we are well-positioned to anticipate and adapt to changing product standards. While we acknowledge that the length of the approval process can be unpredictable, we also believe that we are well positioned to gain the approvals and certifications necessary to meet new government and multinational product regulations. 

Patents and Intellectual Property &#8212; We own significant intellectual property, including a number of domestic and foreign patents, patent applications and trademarks related to our products, processes and business. Although our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of markets that we serve, no single patent, or patent application, trademark or license is, in our opinion, of such value to us that our business would be materially affected by the expiration or termination thereof, other than the &#8220;MSA&#8221; trademark. Our patents expire at various times in the future not exceeding 20 years. Our general policy is to apply for patents on an ongoing basis in the United States and other countries, as appropriate, to perfect our patent development. In addition to our patents, we have also developed or acquired a substantial body of manufacturing know-how that we believe provides a significant competitive advantage over our competitors. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers &#8212; Many of the components of our products are formulated, machined, tooled or molded in-house from raw materials, which comprise approximately two thirds of our cost of sales. For example, we rely on integrated manufacturing capabilities for breathing apparatus, gas masks, ballistic helmets, hard hats and circuit boards. The primary raw materials that we source from third parties include rubber, high density polyethylene, chemical filter media, eye and face protective lenses, air cylinders, certain metals, electronic components and ballistic resistant and non-ballistic fabrics. We purchase these materials both domestically and internationally, and we believe our supply sources are both well established and reliable. We have close vendor relationship programs with the majority of our key raw material suppliers. Although we generally do not have long-term supply contracts, thus far we have not experienced any significant problems in obtaining adequate raw materials. Please refer to MSA's Form SD filed on May 29, 2015 for further information on our conflict minerals analysis. Form SD may be obtained free of charge at www.sec.gov. 

Associates &#8212; At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 4,600 associates of which 2,300 were employed by our European and International segments. None of our U.S. associates are subject to the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement. Some of our associates outside the United States are members of unions. We have not experienced a significant work stoppage in over 10 years and believe our relations with our associates are strong. 

Environmental Matters &#8212; Our facilities and operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. In the opinion of management, compliance with current environmental protection laws will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further information regarding our environmental risks which could impact the Company. 

Seasonality &#8212; Our operating results are not significantly affected by seasonal factors. Sales are generally higher during the second and fourth quarters. During periods of economic expansion or contraction and following significant catastrophes, our sales by quarter have varied from this seasonal pattern. Government related sales tend to spike in the fourth quarter. North America sales tend to be strong during the oil and gas market turnaround seasons late in the first quarter, early in the second quarter and then again at the end of the third quarter and beginning of the fourth quarter. European sales are typically weaker in the summer holiday months of July and August. International has recently had strong fourth quarters, but seasonality can be strongly affected by the timing of delivery of larger orders. Invoicing and the delivery of larger orders can affect sales patterns variably across all reporting segments. Additionally, strong shipments of the G1 SCBA in North America during all four quarters in 2015 somewhat masked underlying seasonal trends. 

Available Information &#8212; Our Internet address is www.MSAsafety.com. We make the following filings available free of charge on the Investor Relations page on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as our proxy statement. Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers like us who file electronically with the SEC. You also may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-0213. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

