 Item 1. BUSINESS . 

Summary 

National Bank Holdings Corporation ("NBHC" or the "Company") is a bank holding company that was incorporated in the State of Delaware in June 2009 and is headquartered immediately south of Denver, in Greenwood Village, Colorado. Our primary operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary, NBH Bank, referred to as the "Bank", or "NBH Bank", through which we provide a variety of banking products to both commercial and consumer clients. We service our clients through a network o f 97 banking centers, with the majority of those banking centers located in the greater Kansas City area and Colorado, and through online and mobile banking products. As of December 31, 2015, we had $4.7 billion in assets, $2.6 billion in lo ans, $3.8 billion in de posits and $0.6 billion in shareholders&#x2019; equity. 

The Company was formed through a private offering of our common stock in October 2009. As part of our goal of becoming a leading regional community bank holding company, we are pursuing a strategy of strong organic growth complemented by selective acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. In October 2010, we acquired the failed Hillcrest Bank from the FDIC and began banking operations. To date, we have completed five acquisitions of banks, three of which were FDIC-assisted. During 2015, we completed the acquisition of Pine River Bank Corporation and its bank subsidiary, Pine River Valley Bank (&#x201C;Pine River&#x201D;). We have transformed these five banks into one collective banking operation with strong organic growth, prudent underwriting, and meaningful market share with continued opportunity for expansion. Our focus is on building organic growth through strong banking relationships with small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers in our markets. Our long-term business model utilizes our organic development infrastructure, low-risk balance sheet, continuous operational development and a disciplined acquisition strategy to create value and provide attractive returns. 

We have a management team consisting of experienced banking executives led by Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer G. Timothy Laney. Mr. Laney brings over 30 years of banking experience, 24 of which were at Bank of America in a wide range of executive management roles, including serving on Bank of America&#x2019;s Management Operating Committee. In late 2007, Mr. Laney joined Regions Financial as Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Business Services. Mr. Laney leads our team of executives that have significant experience in operating banks and completing and integrating mergers and acquisitions. Additionally, our Board of Directors is highly accomplished in the banking industry and includes individuals with broad experience operating and working with financial institutions, regulators and governance considerations. 

Our Acquisitions 

Our banking operations commenced on October 22, 2010, when we acquired selected assets and assumed selected liabilities of Hillcrest Bank of Overland Park, Kansas from the FDIC. Through this transaction, we acquired nine banking centers, which were predominantly located in the greater Kansas City region but also included one banking center in Colorado and two banking centers in Texas. This transaction also included 32 retirement center locations that offered limited-service banking services to residents in retirement communities. On December 31, 2013, we closed all retirement center locations and integrated the servicing of these clients into our banking center network. 

On December 10, 2010, we completed our acquisition, without FDIC assistance, of a portion of the franchise of Bank Midwest from Dickinson Financial Corporation, that consisted of select performing loans and client deposits, and included 39 banking centers, 25 of which are in the greater Kansas City region and 14 of which are located elsewhere in Missouri. During 2015, we consolidated three of those banking centers within our network. 

We expanded into the Colorado market through two complementary acquisitions, beginning with the purchase of selected assets and the assumption of selected liabilities of Bank of Choice, a state-chartered commercial bank based in Greeley, Colorado, from the FDIC on July 22, 2011. In connection with this acquisition, we acquired 16 banking centers. On October 21, 2011, we acquired selected assets and assumed selected liabilities of Community Banks of Colorado, a state-chartered bank based in Greenwood Village, Colorado, from the FDIC. In connection with this transaction, we acquired 36 banking centers in Colorado and four in California (and later exited the California banking centers on December 31, 2013). On August 1, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Pine River, a whole bank acquisition, adding 4 additional banking centers to our Community Banks of Colorado network. The Pine River acquisition continued to enhance our penetration into the Colorado market, giving us a combined network of 53 banking centers in that state. During the first quarter of 2016, we announced plans to consolidate seven banking centers in our Community Banks of Colorado footprint during the second quarter of 2016. 

The following table summarizes certain highlights of our five completed acquisitions to date, including deposits and assets at fair value as of each acquisition date: 

Community Banks 

Pine River 

of Colorado 

Bank of Choice 

Bank Midwest 

Hillcrest Bank 

Date acquired 

August 1, 2015 

October 21, 2011 

July 22, 2011 

December 10, 2010 

October 22, 2010 

FDIC-assisted 

No 

Yes 

Yes 

No 

Yes 

Loss share 

No 

Yes (1) 

No 

No 

Yes (2) 

Banking centers (3) 

40 

39 

9 (and 32 retirement centers) 

Deposits (millions) 

$ 

$ 

1,195 

$ 

$ 

2,386 

$ 

1,234 

Assets (millions) 

$ 

$ 

1,228 

$ 

$ 

2,426 

$ 

1,377 

Primary Market 

Colorado 

Colorado 

Colorado 

Greater Kansas City Region 

Greater Kansas City Region 

(1) 

Commercial loss-share a greement (terminated November 5, 2015). 

(2) 

Single Family loss-share a greement and Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement (terminated November 5, 2015) . 

(3) 

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the four California banking centers acquired with the Community Banks of Colorado acquisition and 32 retirement centers acquired with the Hillcrest Bank acquisition were closed. During 2015, we consolidated three banking centers in our Bank Midwest network, and in the first quarter of 2016 we announced the consolidation of seven banking centers in our Community Banks of Colorado network during the second quarter of 2016 . 

We believe that we have established critical mass in our current markets and have structured acquisitions that limit our credit risk, which positions us for attractive returns. 

Pine River Valley Bank 

Through the Pine River acquisition, we acquired assets with a fair value of $142.1 million, including $64.3 million of loans, $64.4 million of cash and investments and $13.4 million of other assets. Liabilities with a fair value of $131.5 million were also assumed, including $130.1 million of deposits and $1.4 million of other liabilities. 

All of our acquisitions were accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, and accordingly, all assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective acquisition date fair values and the fair value discounts/premiums on loans are being accreted over the lives of the loans. 

Our Corporate Restructurings 

In connection with the Hillcrest Bank and Bank Midwest acquisitions, we established two newly chartered banks, Hillcrest Bank, N.A. and Bank Midwest, N.A. Subsequently, Bank Midwest, N.A. acquired Bank of Choice and Community Banks of Colorado. In N ovember 2011, we merged Hillcrest Bank, N.A. into Bank Midwest, N.A., consolidating our banking operations under a single charter. On March 26, 2012, we changed our legal name from NBH Holdings Corp. to National Bank Holdings Corporation. We changed the legal name of Bank Midwest, N.A. to NBH Bank, N.A. on May 20, 2012. On October 9, 2015, we announced the termination of the operating agreement between NBH Bank, N.A., and its primary regulator, the OCC . On De cember 31, 2015, NBH Bank, N.A. converted into a Colorado state-chartered bank while maintaining membership with the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and we changed the legal name of NBH Bank, N.A. to NBH Bank, which we refer to as &#x201C;NBH Bank&#x201D; or the &#x201C;Bank&#x201D;. Through our subsidiary, NBH Bank, we operate under the following brand names: Bank Midwest in Kansas and Missouri, Community Banks of Colorado in Colorado and Hillcrest Bank in Texas. We believe that conducting our banking operations under a single state charter streamlines our operations and enables us to more effectively and efficiently execute our growth strategy. 

Our Market Area 

Our core markets are broadly defined as Colorado and the greater Kansas City region. We are the fifth largest banking center network among Colorado-based banks ranked by deposits as of June 30, 2015 (the last date as of which data are available), according to SNL Financial. I n the greater Kansas City MSA, we are the sixth largest banking center network. Other major MSAs in which we operate include Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, Texas and Austin-Round Rock, Texas. 

The table below describes certain key statistics regarding our presence in these mar kets as of June 30, 2015 (the las t date as of which data are available). 

Deposit Market 

Deposits 

Deposit Market 

States 

Share Rank (1) 

Banking Centers (1) 

(millions) (1) 

Share (1) 

Missouri 

31 

$ 

1,768.5 

1.3 % 

Colorado 

53 

1,406.7 

1.2 

Kansas 

11 

579.2 

1.0 

Deposit Market 

Deposits 

Deposit Market 

MSAs 

Share Rank (1) 

Banking Centers (1) 

(millions) (1) 

Share (1) 

Kansas City, MO-KS 

26 

$ 

1,617.3 

3.6 % 

Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, CO 

13 

524.8 

0.8 

Saint Joseph, MO-KS 

4 

222.3 

10.9 

Greeley, CO 

5 

188.5 

5.6 

Maryville, MO 

3 

141.9 

26.0 

Kirksville, MO 

2 

127.6 

20.2 

Glenwood Springs, CO 

3 

107.5 

4.4 

(1) 

Note: Excludes our Texas operations and MSAs in which we have less than $100 million in deposits. 

Source: S NL Financial as of June 30, 2015 , except Banking Centers, which reflects the most recently available data. 

We believe that our established presence positions us well for growth opportunities in our markets. We believe that these markets have highly attractive demographic, economic and competitive dynamics that are consistent with our objectives and favorable to executing our organic growth strategy and provide attractive acquisition opportunities. The table below describes certain key demographic statistics regarding our markets. 

Top 3 

Competitor 

# of 

Median 

Combined 

Deposits 

Businesses 

Population 

Unemployment 

Population 

Household 

Deposit 

(billions) 

(thousands) 

(millions) 

Rate (1) 

Growth (2) 

Income 

Market Share 

Denver, CO 

$ 

67.5 

2.8 

3.2 % 

11.3 % 

$ 

66,682 

53 % 

Front Range, CO (3) 

93.3 

4.5 

3.3 

10.8 

65,747 

Kansas City, MO-KS MSA 

44.6 

2.1 

3.9 

4.2 

59,028 

U.S. 

4.8 

4.4 

55,551 

55 (4) 

(1) 

Unemployment data is as of November 30, 2015. 

(2) 

For the period 2010 through 2015. 

(3) 

CO Front Range is a population weighted average of the following Colorado MSAs: Denver, Boulder, Colorado Springs, Fort Collins and Greeley. 

(4) 

Based on U.S. Top 20 MSAs (determined by population). 

Source: SNL Financial as of December 31, 2015, except Deposits and Top 3 Competitor Combined Deposit Market Shares, which reflects data as of June 30, 2015. 

An integral component of our foundation and growth strategy has been to capitalize on market opportunities and acquire financial services franchises. Our primary focus has been on markets that we believe are characterized by some or all of the following: (i) attractive demographics with household income and population growth above the national average; (ii) concentration of business activity; (iii) high quality deposit bases; (iv) an advantageous competitive landscape that provides opportunity to achieve meaningful market presence; (v) a substantial number of financial institutions, including troubled financial institutions; (vi) lack of consolidation in the banking sector and corresponding opportunities for add-on transactions; and (vii) markets sizeable enough to support our long-term growth objectives. We structured our business strategy around these criteria because we believed they would provide the best long-term opportunities for growth. 

We believe there are opportunities for us to continue to execute our acquisition strategy over the next several years. We also believe there are a number of banks and financial institutions in these markets and complementary markets that would complement our breadth of products and services and benefit from our leadership, operating infrastructure and scale while welcoming our approach to local branding and leadership. We believe private banks are more likely acquisition opportunities for us given the ability to structure a transaction that is aligned with the needs of a closely held company. The table below highlights potential in-footprint acquisition opportunities: 

# of 

Private 

# of 

Assets 

Private 

Assets 

Asset Size Range 

Banks 

($ billion) 

Banks 

($ billion) 

$1 billion - $5 billion 

$ 

50.3 

$ 

30.5 

$500 million - $1 billion 

23.6 

22.7 

$250 million - $500 million 

30.4 

30 

Total opportunities 

$ 

104.3 

$ 

83.6 

Source: SNL Financial based on financial information as of September 30, 2015. Includes opportunities in CO, KS and MO. 

Our Business Strategy 

As part of our goal of becoming a leading regional community bank holding company, we seek to continue to generate strong organic growth, as well as pursue selective acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. Our focus is on building organic growth through strong banking relationships with small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers in our primary markets, while maintaining a low-risk profile designed to generate reliable income streams and attractive returns. We view our core market areas as the greater Kansas City region and Colorado. The key components of our strategic plan are: 

&#xB7; 

Focus on client-centered, relationship-driven banking strategy . Our commercial relationship managers focus on small and medium-sized businesses with an advisory approach that emphasizes understanding the client&#x2019;s business and offering a complete array of loan, deposit and treasury management products and services. Our commercial relationship managers are supported by treasury management teams in each of their markets, which allows us to more effectively deliver a comprehensive suite of products and services to our clients and further deepen our banking relationships. Our consumer bankers focus on knowing their clients in order to best meet their financial needs, offering a full complement of loan, deposit and online banking solutions. 

&#xB7; 

Expansion of commercial banking, small business banking and specialty businesses. We have made significant investments in our commercial relationship managers, as well as developed significant capabilities across our small business banking and several specialty commercial banking offerings. Our specialized commercial banking teams are focused on structured and asset-based loans to middle market companies, as well as the energy, agriculture, government and non-profit sectors. Our strategy is to originate a high-quality loan portfolio that is diversified across industries and granular in loan size. We obtained preferred lender status with the Small Business Administration (&#x201C;SBA&#x201D;) providing a leveraged platform for growth in the small business lending segment. We believe we are well-positioned to leverage our operating and risk management infrastructure through organic growth and we intend to continue to add or repurpose our commercial relationship managers to higher growth opportunities and markets in order to drive increased profitability. 

&#xB7; 

Expansion through organic growth and enhanced product offerings. We believe that our focus on serving consumers and small- to medium-sized businesses, coupled with our enhanced product offerings, will provide an expanded revenue base and new sources of fee income. We conduct regular market and competitive analysis to determine which products and services are best suited for our clients. Our teams also continue to enhance cross-selling strategies in order to deepen client relationships, which we believe will further increase our organic loan origination volumes and attract new transaction accounts that offer lower cost of funds and higher fee generating activity. 

&#xB7; 

Continue to strengthen profitability through organic growth and operating efficiencies. We have consolidated our acquired banks under one charter and continue to utilize our comprehensive underwriting and risk management processes while maintaining local branding, leadership and decision making. We have integrated all of our acquired banks onto one operating platform that has allowed us to support growth and realize operating efficiencies throughout our enterprise. Our growth strategy is focused on organic initiatives in order to accelerate our growth in profitability. Key priorities to strengthen profitability include the continued ramp-up of loan production, lowering our cost of funds, implementing additional fee-based business initiatives and further enhancing operational efficiencies. 

&#xB7; 

Pursue disciplined acquisitions . We expect that acquisitions will continue to be a component of our growth strategy and we intend to carefully select acquisition opportunities that we believe have stable core franchises, have significant local market share or will add asset generation capabilities or fee income streams while structuring the transactions to limit risk. Further, we seek transactions that offer opportunities for clear financial benefits with valuations that have acceptable levels of earnings accretion, tangible book value dilution/earn-back, and internal rates of return. We believe that we are a skilled acquirer with a team of executives and board members that have significant experience completing and integrating mergers and acquisitions. We believe that we utilize a comprehensive and conservative due diligence process that is strongly focused on areas of risk and opportunity. We seek to acquire financial services franchises in markets that exhibit attractive demographic attributes and we believe that our focus on attractive markets will provide long-term opportunities for organic growth. Our focus is on our primary markets of Colorado, Missouri and Kansas, including whole banks and banking center divestitures. Additionally, we seek specialty businesses to complement our asset generation and fee income business while leveraging our risk management, operational and control infrastructure. We may utilize our stock in addition to cash as consideration in future acquisitions. 

We believe our strategy of strong organic growth through the retention, expansion and development of client-centered relationships and growth through selective acquisitions in attractive markets provides flexibility regardless of economic conditions. We also believe that our established platform for assessing, executing and integrating acquisitions creates opportunities in an economic downturn while the combination of attractive market factors, franchise scale in our targeted markets and our relationship-centered banking focus creates opportunities in an improving economic environment. 

Products and Services 

Through NBH Bank, our primary business is to offer a full range of traditional banking products and financial services to both our commercial and consumer clients, who are predominantly located in Colorado, Missouri, Kansas and Texas. We conduct our banking business through 97 banking centers, with 53 of those located in Colorado, 42 in the greater Kansas City region and two in Texas. Our distribution network also includes 106 ATMs, fully integrated online banking and mobile banking services. We offer a full array of lending products to cater to our clients&#x2019; needs, including, but not limited to, small business loans, equipment loans, term loans, asset-backed loans, letters of credit, commercial lines of credit, commercial real estate loans, small business loans, residential mortgage loans, home equity and consumer loans. We also offer traditional depository products, including commercial and consumer checking accounts, non-interest-bearing demand accounts, money market deposit accounts, savings accounts and time deposit accounts and treasury management services. 

We offer a high level of personalized service to our clients through our relationship managers and banking center associates. We believe that a banking relationship that includes multiple services, such as loan and deposit services, online and mobile banking solutions and treasury management products and services, is the key to profitable and long-lasting client relationships and that our local focus and decision making provide us with a competitive advantage over banks that do not have these attributes. 

Lending Activities 

Our primary strategic objective is to serve small- to medium-sized businesses in our markets with a variety of unique and useful services, including a full array of commercial, mortgage and non-mortgage loans, while maintaining a strong and disciplined credit culture. Our small business bankers and commercial bankers focus on small- and medium-sized businesses with an advisory approach that emphasizes understanding the client&#x2019;s business and offering a complete suite of loan, deposit and treasury management products and services. We have invested significantly in our small business and commercial banking capabilities, attracting experienced small business and commercial bankers from competing institutions in our markets, which have resulted in significant growth in our strategic loan portfolio. To complement these efforts, we created a focused specialty banking group, which includes NBH Capital Finance (providing structured and asset-based loans to middle market companies), energy, agriculture, treasury management, government and non-profit banking, and SBA lending. Our consumer bankers focus on knowing their individual clients in order to best meet their financial needs, offering a full complement of loan, deposit and online and mobile banking solutions. We strive to do business in the areas served by our banking centers, which is also where our marketing is focused, and the vast majority of our new loan clients are located in existing market areas. 

Our loan portfolio includes commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans, agricultural loans and consumer loans. The principal risk associated with each category of loans we make is the creditworthiness of the borrower. Borrower creditworthiness is affected by general economic conditions and the attributes of the borrower&#x2019;s market or industry segment. Attributes of the relevant business market or industry segment include the economic and competitive environment, changes to supply or demand, threat of substitutes and barriers to entry and exit. In our credit underwriting process, we carefully evaluate the borrower&#x2019;s industry, operating performance, liquidity and financial condition. We underwrite credits based on multiple repayment sources, including operating cash flow, liquidation of collateral and guarantor support, where appropriate. We closely monitor the operating performance, liquidity and financial condition of borrowers through analysis of periodic financial statements and meetings with the borrower&#x2019;s management. As part of our credit underwriting process, we also review the borrower&#x2019;s total debt obligations on a global basis. Our credit policy requires that key risks be identified and measured, documented and mitigated, to the extent possible, to seek to ensure the soundness of our loan portfolio. 

Our credit policy also provides detailed procedures for making loans to individuals along with the regulatory requirements to ensure that all loan applications are evaluated subject to our fair lending policy. Our credit policy addresses the common credit standards for making loans to individuals, the credit analysis and financial statement requirements, the collateral requirements, including insurance coverage where appropriate, as well as the documentation required. Our ability to analyze a borrower&#x2019;s current financial health and credit history, as well as the value of collateral as a secondary source of repayment, when applicable, are significant factors in determining the creditworthiness of loans to individuals. We have also adopted formal credit policies regarding our underwriting procedures for other loans including commercial and commercial real estate loans. We require various levels of internal approvals based on the characteristics of such loans, including the size, nature of the exposure and type of collateral, if any. We believe that the procedures required by our credit policies enhance internal responsibility and accountability for underwriting decisions and permit us to monitor the performance of credit decisioning. An integral element of our credit risk management strategy is the establishment and adherence to concentration limits for our portfolio. We have established concentration limits that apply to our portfolio based on product types such as commercial real estate, consumer lending, and various categories of C&amp;I lending. For more detail on our credit policies, see &#x201C;Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition-Asset Quality.&#x201D; 

Commercial and Industrial Loans &#x2014; We originate commercial and industrial loans and leases, including working capital loans, equipment loans, structured and asset-based loans, government and non-profit loans, energy loans and other commercial loans and leases. The terms of these loans vary by purpose and by type of underlying collateral, if any. 

Working capital loans generally have terms of up to one year, are usually secured by accounts receivable and inventory and carry the personal guarantees of the principals of the business. Equipment loans are generally secured by the financed equipment at advance rates that we believe are appropriate for the equipment type. As of December 31, 2015, substantially all of our commercial and industrial loans were secured. 

Real Estate Loans &#x2014; Our real estate loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans, or CRE loans, consist of loans to finance the purchase of commercial real estate, loans to support working capital needs of businesses that are secured by commercial real estate and construction and development loans. Our CRE loans include loans on 1-4 family construction properties, commercial properties such as office buildings, retail centers, or free-standing commercial properties, multi-family and investor properties and raw land development loans. 

CRE loans are typically secured by a first lien mortgage on multi-family, office, warehouse, hotel or retail property plus assignments of all leases related to the properties. These loans are generally divided into two categories: loans to commercial entities that will occupy most or all of the property (described as &#x201C;owner-occupied&#x201D;) and non-owner occupied loans. In the case of owner-occupied loans, we are usually the primary provider of financial services for the company and/or the principals. Underwriting guidelines generally require borrowers to contribute cash equity that results in an 80% or less loan-to-value ratio on owner-occupied properties and a 75% or less loan-to-value ratio on non-owner occupied properties. 

We seek to reduce the risks associated with commercial mortgage lending by focusing our lending in our primary markets. Outside of owner-occupied CRE loans that are repaid through the cash flows generated by the borrowers&#x2019; business operations, commercial real estate is not a primary focus in our lending strategy. Although non-owner occupied commercial real estate is not a primary focus of our lending strategy, we have developed teams in each our markets of dedicated CRE bankers who possess the depth and breadth of both market knowledge and industry expertise, which serves to further mitigate risk of this product type. 

Residential real estate loans consist of loans secured by the primary or secondary residence of the borrower. These loans consist of closed loans, which are typically amortizing over a 10 to 30 year term. We also offer open-ended home equity loans, which are loans secured by secondary financing on residential real estate. Our loan-to-value benchmark for these loans is below 80% at inception along with satisfactory debt-to-income ratios. We do not originate or purchase negatively amortizing or sub-prime residential loans. 

Agricultural Loans &#x2014; Agricultural loans consist of loans to farmers and other agricultural businesses to finance agricultural production. The principal source of repayment on these loans is the crops sold at the end of the harvest season. Agricultural loans include term loans to finance agricultural land and equipment, as well as short-term lines to support crop production. Loans to finance agricultural land are amortized over 15 to 25 years, typically with three to five year maturities. Loans to finance agricultural equipment are amortized over five to ten years, typically with three to five year maturities. Crop production loans are typically revolving lines of credit generally with maturities of one year. Pricing may be fixed rate or variable rate priced over LIBOR or the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal . 

Consumer Loans &#x2014; We offer a variety of consumer loans, including loans to banking center clients for consumer and business purposes, to meet client demand and to increase the yield on our loan portfolio. All of our newly originated loans are on a direct to consumer basis. Consumer loans are structured as small personal lines of credit and term loans, with the latter generally bearing interest at a higher rate and having a shorter term than residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans are both secured (for example by deposit accounts, brokerage accounts or automobiles) and unsecured and carry either a fixed rate or variable rate. Examples of our consumer loans include home improvement loans not secured by real estate, new and used automobile loans and personal lines of credit. 

Deposit Products and Other Funding Sources 

We offer a variety of deposit products to our clients, including checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and other deposit accounts, including fixed-rate, fixed maturity time deposits ranging in terms from 30 days to five years, and individual retirement accounts. We view deposits as an important part of the overall client relationship and believe they provide opportunities to cross-sell other products and services. We intend to continue our efforts to attract low-cost transaction deposits from our consumer and business banking relationships. Deposit flows are significantly influenced by general and local economic conditions, changes in prevailing interest rates, internal pricing decisions and competition. Our deposits are primarily obtained from areas surrounding our banking centers. In order to attract and retain deposits, we rely on providing competitively priced high-quality service and introducing new products and services that meet our clients' needs. 

Financial Products &amp; Services 

In addition to traditional banking activities, we provide a wide array of treasury management solutions to our clients, including: online and mobile banking, wire transfers, automated clearing house services, electronic bill payment, lock box services, remote deposit capture services, merchant processing services, cash vault, controlled disbursements, positive pay and other auxiliary services (including account reconciliation, collections, repurchase accounts, zero balance accounts and sweep accounts). 

Competition 

The banking landscape in our primary markets of Colorado, Kansas, Missouri and Texas is highly competitive and quite fragmented, with many small banks having limited market share while the large out-of-state national and super-regional banks control the majority of deposits and profitable banking relationships. We compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage bankers and finance companies. Our primary banking competitors in the Kansas City MSA are UMB Bank, Commerce Bank, Bank of America, U.S. Bank, Valley View, Capitol Federal, Central Bancompany, Country Club Bank, Wells Fargo, Lauritzen (First National Bank), NASB Financial Inc., and Enterprise Financial Services Corp., and our largest competitors in Colorado are Wells Fargo, FirstBank, U.S. Bank, JPMorgan Chase, BNP Paribas (Bank of the West), KeyBank, Zions Bank (Vectra Bank of Colorado), Lauritzen (First National Bank), Pinnacle Bancorp (Bank of Colorado), Alpine Bank, Compass Bank (BBVA Compass) and CoBiz Financial. 

Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a variety of traditional brick and mortar banks and nontraditional alternatives, such as online banks. Competition among providers is based on many factors. We believe the most important of these competitive factors that determine success are our consumer bankers&#x2019; focus on knowing their individual clients in order to best meet their financial needs and our commercial bankers&#x2019; focus on small- and medium-sized businesses with an advisory approach that emphasizes understanding the client&#x2019;s business and offering a complete array of loan, deposit and treasury management products and services. The primary factors driving commercial and consumer competition for loans and deposits are interest rates, the fees charged, client service levels and the range of products and services offered. In addition, other competitive factors include the location and hours of our banking centers and client service orientation of our associates. 

We recognize that there are banks with which we compete that have greater financial resources, access to more capital and higher lending capacity than we do and offer a wider range of deposit and lending instruments than we do. However, given our existing capital base, we expect to be able to meet the majority of small- to medium-sized business and consumer credit needs. As of December 31, 2015, our NBH Bank legal lending limit to any one client relationship was $82 .2 million and our house limit to any one client relationship was $30.0 million. 

Associates 

At December 31, 2015, we had 956 full -time associates and 86 part-time associates. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

The U.S. banking industry is highly regulated under federal and state law. Banking laws, regulations, and policies affect the operations of the Company and its subsidiary. Investors should understand that the primary objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is the protection of depositors, the Depositors Insurance Fund (&#x201C;DIF&#x201D;), and the banking system as a whole, not the protection of the Company&#x2019;s shareholders. 

As a bank holding company, we are subject to inspection, examination, supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#x201C;Federal Reserve&#x201D;). Our bank subsidiary, NBH Bank, is a Colorado state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. As such, NBH Bank is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by both the Colorado Division of Banking and the Federal Reserve. In addition, we expect that any additional businesses that we may invest in or acquire will be regulated by various state and/or federal banking regulators. 

Banking statutes and regulations are subject to continual review and revision by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in such statutes or regulations, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. 

In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance pursuant to such laws and regulations, which are binding on us and our subsidiaries. Banking statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions and make distributions or pay dividends on our equity securities. They may also require us to provide financial support to any bank that we control, maintain capital balances in excess of those desired by management and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of NBH Bank, or other depository institutions we control. 

The description below summarizes certain elements of the applicable bank regulatory framework. This description is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. The description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, policies, interpretive letters and other written guidance that are described. 

National Bank Holdings Corporation as a Bank Holding Company 

Any entity that acquires direct or indirect control of a bank must obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve to become a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act (&#x201C;BHCA&#x201D;). We became a bank holding company in 2010 in connection with the acquisition of the assets and assumption of selected liabilities of the former Hillcrest Bank from the FDIC by our then newly chartered bank subsidiary, Hillcrest Bank, N.A. (which is now a predecessor of NBH Bank). As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation under the BHCA and to supervision, examination, and enforcement by the Federal Reserve. Federal Reserve jurisdiction also extends to any company that we may directly or indirectly control, such as non-bank subsidiaries and other companies in which we have a controlling interest. While subjecting us to supervision and regulation, we believe that our status as a bank holding company (as opposed to being a non-controlling investor) broadens the investment opportunities available to us among public and private financial institutions. 

The BHCA generally prohibits a bank holding company from engaging, directly or indirectly, in activities other than banking or managing or controlling banks, except for activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (the &#x201C;GLB Act&#x201D;) expanded the permissible activities of a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding company. Under the regulations implementing the GLB Act, a financial holding company may engage in additional activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to financial activity. Those activities include, among other activities, certain insurance and securities activities. We have not yet determined whether it would be appropriate or advisable in the future to become a financial holding company. 

NBH Bank as a Colorado State-Chartered Bank 

On December 31, 2015, NBH Bank, N.A., a national association, chartered under federal law and supervised and regulated by the OCC, converted to a Colorado state-chartered bank operating under the name of NBH Bank. NBH Bank is also a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. As such, NBH Bank is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by both the Colorado Division of Banking and the Federal Reserve. NBH Bank&#x2019;s deposits are insured by the FDIC through the DIF, in the manner and to the extent provided by law. As an insured bank, NBH Bank is subject to the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the &#x201C;FDI Act&#x201D;), and the FDIC&#x2019;s implementing regulations thereunder, and may also be subject to supervision and examination by the FDIC under certain circumstances. 

Under the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 (&#x201C;FDICIA&#x201D;), NBH Bank must submit financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and management reports signed by the Company&#x2019;s and NBH Bank&#x2019;s chief executive officer and chief accounting or financial officer concerning management&#x2019;s responsibility for the financial statements, an assessment of internal controls, and an assessment of NBH Bank&#x2019;s compliance with various banking laws and FDIC and other banking regulations. In addition, we must submit annual audit reports to federal regulators prepared by independent auditors. As allowed by regulations, we may use our audit report prepared for the Company to satisfy this requirement. We must provide our auditors with examination reports, supervisory agreements and reports of enforcement actions. The auditors must also attest to and report on the statements of management relating to the internal controls. FDICIA also requires that NBH Bank form an independent audit committee consisting of outside directors only, or that the Company&#x2019;s audit committee be entirely independent. 

Broad Supervision, Examination and Enforcement Powers 

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banks and other insured depository institutions. To that end, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and state bank regulators have broad regulatory, examination and enforcement authority over bank holding companies and banks, as applicable. This authority serves to ensure compliance with banking statutes, regulations, and regulatory guidance, orders, and agreements and safe and sound operation, including the power to issue cease and desist orders, impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance and appoint a conservator or receiver. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of banks and bank holding companies. In addition, banks and bank holding companies are subject to periodic reporting and filing requirements. 

Bank regulators have various remedies available if they determine that a banking organization has violated any law or regulation, that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of a banking organization&#x2019;s operations are unsatisfactory, or that the banking organization is operating in an unsafe or unsound manner. The bank regulators have the power to, among other things: enjoin &#x201C;unsafe or unsound&#x201D; practices, require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, terminate deposit insurance, and appoint a conservator or receiver. 

Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Company, its subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC could terminate NBH Bank&#x2019;s deposit insurance if it determined that the Bank&#x2019;s financial condition was unsafe or unsound or that the bank engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or violated an applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank&#x2019;s regulators. 

FDIC Statement of Policy on Qualifications for Failed Bank Acquisitions 

As the agency responsible for resolving failed depository institutions, the FDIC has discretion to determine whether a party is qualified to bid on a failed institution. The FDIC Policy Statement imposes additional restrictions and requirements on certain &#x201C;private investors&#x201D; and institutions to the extent that those investors or institutions seek to acquire a failed insured depository institution from the FDIC. The FDIC adopted the FDIC Policy Statement on August 26, 2009, and issued guidance regarding the policy statement on January 6, 2010 and April 23, 2010. 

The FDIC Policy Statement applies to private investors in a company (such as the Company) that proposes to assume deposit liabilities (or liabilities and assets) from the resolution of a failed insured depository institution, but does not apply to investors with 5% or less of the total voting power of an acquired depository institution or its bank holding company, provided there is no evidence of concerted action by such investors. 

The FDIC Policy Statement imposes several requirements on those institutions and investors to which it applies. Many of these requirements sunset after a three year time period or do no present ongoing requirements. However, some are related to the continuing presence of certain investors. Institutions are required to maintain a capital level sufficient to be &#x201C;well capitalized&#x201D; under regulatory standards during the remaining period of ownership of the investors. Investors that collectively own 80% or more of two or more depository institutions are required to pledge to the FDIC their proportionate interests in each institution to indemnify the FDIC against any losses it incurs in connection with the failure of one of the institutions. Institutions are prohibited from extending credit to investors and to affiliates of investors. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

In General 

Bank regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution&#x2019;s financial soundness. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements implemented by the Federal Reserve. The federal banking agencies have risk-based capital adequacy guidelines intended to provide a measure of capital adequacy that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization&#x2019;s operations. Under these guidelines, assets are assigned to one of several risk categories, and nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance-sheet items are multiplied by a risk adjustment percentage for the category. NBH Bank also is, and other depository institution subsidiaries that we may acquire or control in the future will be, subject to capital adequacy guidelines as implemented by the relevant federal banking agency. In the case of the Company and NBH Bank, applicable capital guidelines can be found in the Federal Reserve&#x2019;s Regulations H and Q. 

The federal banking agencies recently revised capital guidelines to reflect the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and to effect the implementation of Basel III Accords. The quantitative measures, established by the regulators to ensure capital adequacy, require that banking organizations maintain minimum ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets. There are three categories of capital under the guidelines. With the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, certain changes have been made as to the type of capital that falls under each of these categories. Common equity tier 1 capital, a new category, includes only common stock, related surplus, retained earnings and qualified minority investments. Additional tier 1 capital includes non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, certain qualifying minority interests, and for bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in consolidated assets, cumulative perpetual preferred stock and grandfathered trust preferred securities. Tier 2 capital includes subordinated debt, certain qualifying minority investments, and for bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in consolidated assets, non-qualifying capital instruments issued before May 19, 2010 that exceed 25% of tier 1. 

Under the guidelines, capital is compared with the relative risk related to the balance sheet. To derive the risk included in the balance sheet, a risk weighting is applied to each balance sheet asset and off-balance sheet item, primarily based on the relative credit risk of the asset or counterparty. The revised capital rules also modified the risk-weights applied to particular on and off balance sheet assets. 

The revised capital rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a total tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8%, and a leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies will ultimately be required to hold a capital conservation buffer of common equity tier 1 capital of 2.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and executive compensation payments. Most of these new capital ratios became effective as of January 1, 2015. 

Further, the federal bank regulatory agencies may, however, set higher capital requirements for an individual bank or when a bank&#x2019;s particular circumstances warrant. At this time, the bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements in order to be considered well-capitalized, and future regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. 

The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take &#x201C;prompt corrective action&#x201D; with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A depository institution&#x2019;s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. Under this system, the federal banking regulators have established five capital categories, well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized, in which all institutions are placed. The federal banking regulators have specified by regulation the relevant capital levels for each of the five categories. The revised capital rules require banks to maintain a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a total tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a total capital ratio of 10%, and a leverage ratio of 5% to be deemed &#x201C;well capitalized.&#x201D; Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. Our regulatory capital ratios and those of NBH Bank are in excess of the levels established for &#x201C;well-capitalized&#x201D; institutions. 

Bank Holding Companies as a Source of Strength 

The Federal Reserve requires that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each bank that it controls and, under appropriate circumstances, commit resources to support each such controlled bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support. Because we are a bank holding company, the Federal Reserve views the Company (and its consolidated assets) as a source of financial and managerial strength for any controlled depository institutions. 

Under the prompt corrective action provisions, if a controlled bank is undercapitalized, then the regulators could require its bank holding company to guarantee a capital restoration plan. In addition, if the Federal Reserve believes that a bank holding company&#x2019;s activities, assets or affiliates represent a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a controlled bank, then the Federal Reserve could require the bank holding company to terminate the activities, liquidate the assets or divest the affiliates. The regulators may require these and other actions in support of controlled banks even if such action is not in the best interests of the bank holding company or its shareholders. 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the requirement that holding companies, like the Company, serve as a source of financial strength for their subsidiary depository institutions, by providing financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress. Under the source of strength requirement imposed by the Federal Reserve and codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company could be required to provide financial assistance to NBH Bank should it experience financial distress. 

In addition, capital loans by us to NBH Bank will be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of NBH Bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of NBH Bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Because the Company&#x2019;s consolidated net income consists largely of the net income of NBH Bank, the Company&#x2019;s ability to pay dividends depends upon its receipt of dividends from its subsidiary. The ability of a bank to pay dividends and make other distributions is limited by federal and state law. The specific limits depend on a number of factors, including the bank&#x2019;s type of charter, recent earnings, recent dividends, level of capital and regulatory status. As a member of the Federal Reserve System, NBH Bank is subject to Regulation H, which, among other things, provides that a member bank may not declare or pay a dividend if the total of all dividends declared during the calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the sum of the bank&#x2019;s net income during the current calendar year and its retained net income for the prior two calendar years, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Regulation H also states that a member bank may not declare or pay a dividend if the dividend would exceed the bank&#x2019;s undivided profits, unless approved by the Federal Reserve and holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of each class of the bank&#x2019;s stock. The regulators are authorized, and under certain circumstances are required, to determine that the payment of dividends or other distributions by a bank would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit that payment. For example, the FDI Act generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. 

As a Colorado state-chartered bank, NBH Bank is subject to limitations under Colorado law with respect to the payment of dividends. The Colorado Banking Code states that a bank may declare dividends from retained earnings and other components of capital specifically approved by the Banking Board so long as the declaration is make in compliance with established rules. Non-bank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. 

The ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends and make other distributions can also be limited. The Federal Reserve has authority to prohibit a bank holding company from paying dividends or making other distributions. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement that provides that a bank holding company should not pay dividends unless: (a) its net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (b) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries; and (c) the bank holding company will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. Accordingly, a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or that can only be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company&#x2019;s financial health, such as by borrowing. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the &#x201C;liquidation or other resolution&#x201D; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If our insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including us, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions 

FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by the same bank holding company. &#x201C;Default&#x201D; means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution. &#x201C;In danger of default&#x201D; means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. The cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution would be subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations, any other general or senior liability and any obligation subordinated to depositors or general creditors, other than obligations owed to any affiliate of the depository institution (with certain exceptions). 

Limits on Transactions with Affiliates 

Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions (generally referred to as &#x201C;Covered Transactions&#x201D;) between a bank and its non-bank affiliates. Covered Transactions with any single affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the bank, and Covered Transactions with all affiliates may not exceed, in the aggregate, 20% of the bank&#x2019;s capital and surplus. For a bank, capital stock and surplus refers to the bank&#x2019;s tier 1 and tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital guidelines (which were revised in 2013), plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from tier 2 capital. The bank&#x2019;s transactions with all of its affiliates in the aggregate are limited to 20% of the foregoing capital. In addition, in connection with Covered Transactions that are extensions of credit, the bank may be required to hold collateral to provide added security to the bank, and the types of permissible collateral may be limited. The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates, including an expansion of what types of transactions are Covered Transactions to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding Covered Transactions must be satisfied. As of December 31, 2015, the Company did not have any outstanding Covered Transactions. 

Regulatory Notice and Approval Requirements for Acquisitions of Control 

We must generally receive federal bank regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. Specifically, as a bank holding company, we must obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition that would result in the Company owning or controlling 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank or another bank holding company. In acting on such applications, the Federal Reserve considers, among other factors: the effect of the acquisition on competition; the financial condition and future prospects of the applicant and the banks involved; the managerial resources of the applicant and the banks involved; the convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the CRA; the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money laundering activities; and the extent to which the proposal would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. Our ability to make investments in depository institutions will depend on our ability to obtain approval for such investments from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations. For example, we could be required to sell banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. 

Federal and state laws, including the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, impose additional prior notice or approval requirements and ongoing regulatory requirements on any investor that seeks to acquire direct or indirect &#x201C;control&#x201D; of an FDIC-insured depository institution or bank holding company. Whether an investor &#x201C;controls&#x201D; a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, an investor is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting securities. Subject to rebuttal, an investor is presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting securities and either the depository institution or company is a public company or no other person will hold a greater percentage of that class of voting securities after the acquisition. If an investor&#x2019;s ownership of our voting securities were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to &#x201C;control&#x201D; us for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences. 

Anti-Money Laundering Requirements 

Under federal law, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#x201C;USA PATRIOT Act&#x201D;), certain types of financial institutions, including insured depository institutions, must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing associate training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Among other things, these laws are intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. Financial institutions are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence, client identification, and recordkeeping, including in their dealings with non-U.S. financial institutions and non-U.S. clients. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious information maintained by financial institutions. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and they must consider an institution&#x2019;s anti-money laundering compliance when considering regulatory applications filed by the institution, including applications for banking mergers and acquisitions. The regulatory authorities have imposed &#x201C;cease and desist&#x201D; orders and civil money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

Banks and other financial institutions are subject to numerous laws and regulations intended to protect consumers in their transactions with banks. These laws include, among others, laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices and usury laws, as well as the following consumer protection statutes: Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Flood Disaster Protection Act, Expedited Funds Availability Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, Fair Housing Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, GLB Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Right to Financial Privacy Act and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. 

Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous, and in addition, to those listed above. These state and local laws regulate the manner in which financial institutions deal with clients when taking deposits, making loans or conducting other types of transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could give rise to regulatory sanctions, client rescission rights, action by state and local attorneys general and civil or criminal liability. 

The Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (the &#x201C;CFPB&#x201D;) has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks. The CFPB is authorized to issue rules for both bank and nonbank companies that offer consumer financial products and services, subject to consultation with the prudential banking regulators. In general, however, banks with assets of $10 billion or less, such as NBH Bank, will continue to be examined for consumer compliance by their primary bank regulator. 

Much of the CFPB&#x2019;s rulemaking has focused on mortgage lending and servicing, including an important rule requiring lenders to ensure that prospective buyers have the ability to repay their mortgages. Other areas of current CFPB focus include consumer protections for prepaid cards, payday lending, debt collection, overdraft services and privacy notices. The CFPB has been particularly active in issuing rules and guidelines concerning residential mortgage lending and servicing, issuing numerous rules and guidance related to residential mortgages. Perhaps the most significant of these guidelines is the &#x201C;Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards under the Truth in Lending Act&#x201D; portions of Regulation Z. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, creditors must make a reasonable and good faith determination, based on verified and documented information, that the consumer has a reasonable &#x201C;ability to repay&#x201D; a residential mortgage according to its terms. There is a statutory presumption of compliance with this requirement for mortgages that meet the requirements to be deemed &#x201C;qualified mortgages.&#x201D; The CFPB rule defines the key threshold terms &#x201C;ability to repay&#x201D; and &#x201C;qualified mortgage.&#x201D; 

The CFPB has actively issued enforcement actions against both large and small entities and to entities across the entire financial service industry. The CFPB has relied upon &#x201C;unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts&#x201D; prohibitions as its primary enforcement tool. However, the CFPB and DOJ continue to be focused on fair lending in taking enforcement actions again banks with renewed emphasis on alleged redlining practices. 

The Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their entire communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operations. The regulators examine banks and assign each bank a public CRA rating. The CRA then requires bank regulators to take into account the bank&#x2019;s record in meeting the needs of its community when considering certain applications by a bank, including applications to establish a banking center or to conduct certain mergers or acquisitions. The Federal Reserve is required to consider the CRA records of a bank holding company&#x2019;s controlled banks when considering an application by the bank holding company to acquire a bank or to merge with another bank holding company. 

When we apply for regulatory approval to make certain investments, the regulators will consider the CRA record of the target institution and our depository institution subsidiary. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay approval or result in denial of an application. 

Reserve Requirements 

Pursuant to regulations of the Federal Reserve, all banks are required to maintain average daily reserves at mandated ratios against their transaction accounts. In addition, reserves must be maintained on certain non-personal time deposits. These reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in an account at a Federal Reserve Bank. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

FDIC-insured banks are required to pay deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system whereby FDIC-insured depository institutions pay insurance premiums at rates based on their risk classification. An institution&#x2019;s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators. 

The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. As of January 1, 2013, all of a depositor&#x2019;s accounts at an insured bank, including all non-interest bearing transaction accounts, are insured by the FDIC up to $250,000. 

The Dodd-Frank Act changed the deposit insurance assessment framework, primarily by basing assessments on an institution&#x2019;s average total consolidated assets less average tangible equity (subject to risk-based adjustments that would further reduce the assessment base for custodial banks) rather than domestic deposits, shifting a greater portion of the aggregate assessments to large banks, as described in detail below. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminated the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year, increased the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020, and eliminated the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the DIF to reach the reserve ratio of 1.35% of insured deposits by September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC raised the minimum designated reserve ratio of DIF to 2%. The ratio is higher than the minimum reserve ratio of 1.35% as set by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC is required to offset the effect of the higher reserve ratio on small insured depository institutions, those with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. 

Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the DIF, as well as changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act, may result in higher assessment rates. NBH Bank may be able to pass part or all of this cost on to its clients, including in the form of lower interest rates on deposits, or fees to some depositors, depending on market conditions. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution&#x2019;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution&#x2019;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution&#x2019;s regulatory agency. If deposit insurance for a banking business we invest in or acquire were to be terminated, that would have a material adverse effect on that banking business and potentially on the Company as a whole. 

Interstate Banking 

Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the &#x201C;Riegle- Neal Act&#x201D;), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company&#x2019;s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). Bank holding companies must be well capitalized and well managed, not merely adequately capitalized and adequately managed, in order to acquire a bank located outside of the bank holding company&#x2019;s home state. 

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate banking centers. A national or state bank, with the approval of its regulator, may open a de novo banking center in any state if the law of the state in which the banking center is proposed would permit the establishment of the banking center if the bank were a bank chartered in that state. 

Changes in Laws, Regulations or Policies 

Congress and state legislatures may introduce from time to time measures or take actions that would modify the regulation of banks or bank holding companies. In addition, federal and state regulatory agencies also periodically propose and adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Such changes could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks and other financial institutions, all of which could affect our investment opportunities and our assessment of how attractive such opportunities may be. We cannot predict whether potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations would have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 

More Information 

Our website is www.nationalbankholdings.com. We make available free of charge, through our website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

