 ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were originally incorporated in California in January 1992 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1996. 

We discover and develop innovative and life-changing pharmaceuticals, in diseases with high unmet medical needs, through our novel R&#38;D platform, focused on neurological and endocrine based diseases and disorders. Our two lead late-stage clinical programs are elagolix, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist for women&#146;s health that is partnered with AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie), and NBI-98854 (valbenazine) a vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) inhibitor for the treatment of movement disorders. We intend to maintain certain commercial rights to our VMAT2 inhibitor and evolve into a fully-integrated pharmaceutical company. 

&#160; 

Our Product Pipeline 

The following table summarizes our most advanced product candidates currently in clinical development and those currently in research and is followed by detailed descriptions of each program: 

&#160;

Program 

&#160; Target Indication(s) &#160; Status 

&#160; Rights 

Product candidates in clinical development: 

&#160; &#160; &#160; elagolix 

&#160; Endometriosis &#160; Phase III &#160; AbbVie valbenazine (NBI-98854) 

&#160; Tardive Dyskinesia &#160; Phase III &#160; Neurocrine/Mitsubishi Tanabe elagolix 

&#160; Uterine Fibroids &#160; Phase III &#160; AbbVie valbenazine (NBI-98854) 

&#160; Tourette Syndrome &#160; Phase II &#160; Neurocrine/Mitsubishi Tanabe NBI-640756 

&#160; Essential Tremor &#160; Phase I &#160; Neurocrine Research programs: 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Endocrine (e.g. CRF1 Antagonists) 

&#160; Classic Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia 

&#160; Research &#160; Neurocrine Neurological/Neuropsychiatric (e.g. VMAT2 Inhibitors) 

&#160; Movement Disorders, Bipolar Disorder and 

Schizophrenia 

&#160; Research &#160; Neurocrine CNS Disorders (Targeted by G Protein-Coupled Receptors and Ion Channels) 

&#160; Epilepsy, Essential Tremor, Pain, Other Indications 

&#160; Research &#160; Neurocrine &#160;

&#147;Phase III&#148; indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting large-scale, multicenter comparative clinical trials on patients afflicted with a target disease in order to provide substantial evidence for efficacy and safety of the product candidate. 

&#147;Phase II&#148; indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials on groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety of the product candidate. 

&#147;Phase I&#148; indicates that we or our collaborators are conducting clinical trials with a smaller number of subjects to determine early safety profile, maximally tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product candidate in human volunteers. 

&#147;Research&#148; indicates identification and evaluation of compound(s) in laboratory and preclinical models. 

Product Candidates In Clinical Development 

elagolix &#150; Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Antagonist 

GnRH is a peptide that stimulates the secretion of the pituitary hormones that are responsible for sex steroid production and normal reproductive function. Researchers have found that chronic administration of GnRH agonists, after initial stimulation, reversibly shuts down this transmitter pathway and is clinically useful in treating hormone-dependent diseases such as endometriosis and uterine fibroids. Several companies have developed peptide GnRH agonists on this principle, such as Lupron &#174; and Zoladex &#174; . However, since these molecules are peptides, they must be injected via a depot formulation rather than the preferred oral route of administration. In addition, GnRH agonists can take up to several weeks to exert their desired effect once the initial stimulation has occurred, a factor not seen with the use of GnRH antagonists. Upon administration, GnRH agonists have shown a tendency to exacerbate the condition via a hormonal flare. More importantly the profound suppression effect observed with GnRH agonists is similar to that seen after menopause and can be associated with hot flashes and the loss of bone mineral density. 

&#160; 

Orally active, nonpeptide GnRH antagonists potentially offer several advantages over injectable GnRH peptide drugs, including rapid onset of hormone suppression without hormonal flare. Also, injection site reactions commonly observed in peptide depots are avoided and dosing can be rapidly discontinued if necessary &#150; a clinical management option not available with long-acting depot injections. Additionally, by using GnRH antagonists, it may be possible to alter the level of pituitary GnRH suppression thereby titrating circulating estrogen levels. Using this approach, an oral GnRH antagonist may provide patients relief from the painful symptoms of endometriosis while avoiding the need for the active management of bone loss. 

In June 2010, we entered into an exclusive worldwide collaboration with AbbVie to develop and commercialize elagolix and all next-generation non-peptide GnRH antagonists (collectively, GnRH Compounds) for women&#146;s and men&#146;s health indications. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie is responsible for all development, marketing and commercialization costs and has primary responsibility for all regulatory interactions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) related to elagolix and other GnRH Compounds covered by the collaboration. AbbVie is currently in Phase III evaluation of elagolix in two indications, endometriosis and uterine fibroids. 

Endometriosis. Endometriosis is associated with a multitude of symptoms, some of the most common of which include pain related both to menstruation (dysmenorrhea) and sexual intercourse (dyspareunia) as well as chronic pelvic pain throughout the menstrual cycle, infertility, and menorrhagia, among many others. The wide range of symptoms associated with endometriosis serves to complicate and delay diagnosis due to the significant overlap of symptoms with the disease profiles of other conditions. The World Endometriosis Research Foundation estimates that there are over 170 million women worldwide who suffer from endometriosis, including approximately 7.5 million women in the United States alone. We believe that the availability of an oral treatment, lacking the side effect profile of the currently available peptide GnRH agonists, may be a desirable alternative to current pharmaceutical therapies and ultimately encourage a significantly higher treatment rate. 

During 2008, we completed the first Phase IIb study of elagolix (PETAL or 603 study) in which 252 patients, with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis, were treated over the initial six-month period. This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy study consisted of three treatment groups, elagolix 150mg once daily, elagolix 75mg twice daily, and an active control, DMPA-SC. The primary purpose of this study was to assess the impact of six months of treatment of elagolix on bone mineral density as measured by a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan at the conclusion of treatment and at six and 12 months post treatment. This study also assessed, as secondary endpoints, the impact of treatment on endometriosis symptoms as measured by Composite Pelvic Signs and Symptoms Scale (CPSSS), a monthly recall scale that measures dysmenorrhea, non-menstrual pelvic pain, dyspareunia, pelvic tenderness and induration (all elements of endometriosis pain). Top-line results showed that elagolix met the primary endpoint by having minimal impact on bone mineral density at the conclusion of treatment. This study also showed that elagolix had both a statistical and clinically meaningful reduction in endometriosis symptoms as measured by CPSSS with an 86% responder rate in the 150mg once daily elagolix arm of the study. Additionally, elagolix was shown to be non-inferior to DMPA-SC under the CPSSS. Patient follow up both six and 12 months post treatment showed elagolix did not result in a significant reduction in bone mineral density as measured by DXA scan, with a mean time of return to ovulation of 24 days for elagolix subjects. 

Toward the conclusion of the 603 study, the FDA requested that the endpoints for dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual pelvic pain be assessed on a daily basis rather than utilizing the CPSSS monthly recall scale. In addition, the FDA also provided modified wording to assess the dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual pelvic pain scores on a daily basis. Given these new independent co-primary endpoints, we conducted two additional Phase IIb trials of elagolix to evaluate these modified endpoints as proposed by the FDA, to fully explore the elagolix dose range utilizing both 150mg and 250mg doses. These two trials were designed to assess elagolix for an initial three months, with the non - elagolix treatment arms re-randomized after three months into treatment groups of either 150mg or 250mg of elagolix once daily for an additional three months. 

&#160; 

The first additional Phase IIb trial (Lilac PETAL or 702 study) consisted of three arms, elagolix 150mg once daily, elagolix 250mg once daily and placebo. We randomized 155 subjects with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis in this trial. The three-month placebo-controlled portion of the 702 study showed that elagolix provided endometriosis sufferers with clinical improvement of symptoms, coupled with an excellent safety and tolerability profile. However, the FDA-proposed non-menstrual pelvic pain daily scale had a low baseline score and was relatively insensitive to treatment effects. There were no treatment related serious adverse events in the 702 study and the two most common adverse events were headache and nausea, which were typically mild and transient and consistent with our previous studies. 

The second additional Phase IIb trial (Tulip PETAL or 703 study) consisted of four arms, elagolix 150mg once daily, elagolix 250mg once daily, Prostap &#174; SR 3.75mg (leuprorelin) and placebo. We enrolled 174 subjects with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis in this trial. The three-month placebo-controlled portion of the 703 study confirmed that elagolix and leuprorelin are associated with reductions in dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual pelvic pain daily scores when compared to placebo. However, the FDA-proposed non-menstrual pelvic pain daily scale numeric changes and dynamic range were both small. Although the adverse events reported in the 703 study as occurring more often with elagolix than with placebo were nausea and headache ( &#60; 12%), consistent with previous clinical studies of elagolix, these events were generally mild or moderate, transient and not generally associated with study discontinuation. There were no treatment related serious adverse events. 

In August 2009, we held a Type C meeting with the FDA to discuss the non-menstrual pelvic pain scale as proposed by the FDA and used in the 702 and 703 studies. Based on this meeting, we modified the wording of the non-menstrual pelvic pain and dysmenorrhea daily scales and launched a new clinical trial, the Daisy PETAL Study (901 study). This parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial was designed to provide an assessment of the modified scales over an eight-week treatment period of 150mg elagolix, followed by sixteen weeks of open-label treatment. This trial commenced in September 2009 and randomized approximately 130 subjects. In May 2010, we announced the results of this trial which showed the symptoms of dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual pelvic pain, as measured by the modified daily scales, both improved significantly in the elagolix treated arms (p-value&#60;0.001 and p-value&#60;0.01, respectively). Daily dysmenorrhea pain scores were 2.1 at baseline (0-3 scale) with a 1.13 reduction in the elagolix arm compared to a 0.37 reduction in the placebo arm at eight weeks. Daily non-menstrual pelvic pain scores were 1.4 at baseline (0-3 scale) with a 0.47 reduction in the elagolix arm compared to a 0.19 reduction in the placebo arm at eight weeks. There were no treatment related serious adverse events in the 901 study and the two most common adverse events were headache and nausea, which were typically mild and transient and consistent with our previous studies. 

The endometriosis Phase III program is assessing two separate doses of elagolix (150mg once daily and 200mg twice daily) over a 24-week treatment period. The initial randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal trial (Violet PETAL) enrolled 872 women in approximately 160 clinical sites throughout the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. The co-primary endpoints were a comparison of the daily non-menstrual pelvic pain and daily dysmenorrhea scores during the third month of treatment to the respective daily baseline scores utilizing a responder analysis. Maintenance of response at month six was also assessed utilizing the same daily scales. 

In January 2015, AbbVie announced the top-line results of the initial six months of placebo controlled dosing of the Violet PETAL study. After six months of continuous treatment, both doses of elagolix (150mg once daily and 200mg twice daily) met the study&#146;s co-primary endpoints (p&#60;0.001) of reducing scores of non-menstrual pelvic pain and dysmenorrhea associated with endometriosis, at month three, as well as at month six. 

The observed safety profile of elagolix in the Violet PETAL study was consistent with observations from prior studies. Among the most common adverse events were hot flash, headache, nausea and fatigue. While most adverse events were similar across treatment groups, some, such as hot flash and bone mineral density loss, were dose-dependent. Overall discontinuation rates were similar across treatment groups and discontinuations specifically due to adverse events were 5.9%, 6.4%, and 9.7% for placebo, 150 mg once daily and 200 mg twice daily, respectively. 

&#160; 

Additional efficacy and safety endpoints for the patients enrolled in the Violet PETAL study were measured through one year of continuous dosing as well as for a period of time after the final dose. The one-year dosing portion of this study concluded in mid-2015. In July 2015, AbbVie announced that the efficacy and safety data at one year was consistent with the data witnessed at six months. 

In February 2016, AbbVie announced the top-line results from the second of the two Phase III elagolix endometriosis clinical trials, the Solstice Study, a multinational study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of elagolix in 815 premenopausal women with endometriosis. The top-line results from this trial were consistent with those of the Violet PETAL Study; after six months of treatment, both doses of elagolix (150 mg once daily and 200 mg twice daily) met the Solstice study&#146;s co-primary endpoints of reducing scores of non-menstrual pelvic pain and menstrual pain (or dysmenorrhea) associated with endometriosis at month three, as well as month six. The observed safety profile of elagolix in the Solstice study was consistent with observations from prior studies. Among the most common adverse events were hot flush, headache, and nausea. While most adverse events were similar across treatment groups some, such as hot flush and bone mineral density loss, were dose-dependent. Overall discontinuation rates were similar across treatment groups (25.3%, 21.2%, and 19.7% for placebo, 150 mg once daily and 200 mg twice daily, respectively); discontinuations specifically due to treatment emergent adverse events were 6.1%, 4.4%, and 10.0% for placebo, 150 mg once daily and 200 mg twice daily, respectively. Patients in the Solstice study were eligible to continue on in either post-treatment follow-up or a blinded extension study for an additional six-month safety and efficacy evaluation of elagolix. 

AbbVie is targeting a 2017 New Drug Application filing with the FDA for elagolix in endometriosis. 

Uterine Fibroids. Uterine fibroids are benign hormonally responsive tumors that form in the wall of the uterus. They are the most common solid tumor in women with a prevalence rate of at least 25% (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists). While many women do not have symptoms, depending on the size, location and number, uterine fibroids can cause symptoms such as: longer, more frequent, or heavy menstrual bleeding, menstrual pain, vaginal bleeding at time other than menstruation, pain in the abdomen or lower back, pain during sex, difficulty urinating, frequent urination, constipation or rectal pain. Due to the severity of symptoms, treatment sometimes requires surgery, including the removal of the uterus. In fact, uterine fibroids is a leading indication for hysterectomy in the United States, with approximately 250,000 hysterectomies performed each year related to uterine fibroids (Whiteman et al AJOG 2008, 198, e1). We believe that a safe and effective oral therapy would be a preferred treatment regimen rather than surgical intervention. 

During 2011, AbbVie initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase IIa study of approximately 300 women to assess the safety and efficacy of elagolix in the treatment of uterine fibroids. The primary endpoint in this study was an assessment of blood loss after three months of treatment with elagolix. The dose ranging study evaluated various doses of elagolix compared to placebo. Additional efficacy endpoints were also evaluated including change in uterine volume, fibroid volume, and change in menstrual patterns. Based on the results of this study, AbbVie launched a Phase IIb uterine fibroids study for elagolix in 2013. 

The single Phase IIb clinical trial enrolled approximately 570 women with heavy uterine bleeding due to uterine fibroids at approximately 100 sites in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Chile and the United Kingdom. The trial was a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled, two cohort design study that evaluated the safety and efficacy of two different elagolix treatment regimens (300mg twice daily and 600mg once daily) alone and in combination with two different strengths of hormonal add-back therapy (estradiol/norethindrone acetate). The primary endpoint of the study was an assessment of uterine blood loss after six months of treatment. Secondary efficacy endpoints included change in uterine volume, fibroid volume, and menstrual patterns. Safety assessments of bone mineral density, comparing baseline to month six, were performed via DXA scan. Patients were also followed off drug for up to six months. 

Results show elagolix reduced heavy menstrual bleeding in all treatment arms. The study&#146;s primary endpoint, a composite design where subjects had to achieve a menstrual blood loss (MBL) volume of less than 

&#160; 

80 mL as well as a 50 percent or greater reduction in MBL volume from baseline at the final study month, was met (p&#60;0.001) as assessed utilizing a quantitative measure of reduction in uterine blood flow, the alkaline hematin method. 

Among the most common adverse events were hot flash, headache, nausea, and vomiting. Some adverse events such as hot flash were more frequent in the elagolix only treatment arms versus the placebo and elagolix with add back therapy treatment arms. Reduction in bone mineral density associated with elagolix alone was attenuated when elagolix was co-administered with hormonal add-back therapy. 

AbbVie initiated Phase III studies of elagolix in patients with uterine fibroids in early 2016. The Phase III program will include two replicate, pivotal, six-month efficacy and safety studies followed by a six-month safety and efficacy extension study. The primary endpoint in Phase III studies will be the same as that employed in the Phase IIb study: percent of subjects with reduction in uterine blood flow as measured by the alkaline hematin method. 

NBI-98854/valbenazine - Vesicular Monoamine Transporter 2 Inhibitor (VMAT2) 

VMAT2 is a protein concentrated in the human brain that is essential for the transmission of nerve impulses between neurons. VMAT2 is primarily responsible for packaging and transporting monoamines (dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and histamine) in neurons. Specifically, dopamine enables neurotransmission among nerve cells that are involved in voluntary and involuntary motor control. Disease states such as tardive dyskinesia (TD), Tourette syndrome, Huntington&#146;s chorea, schizophrenia, and tardive dystonia are characterized in part by a hyperdopaminergic state in the brain, and modulation of neuronal dopamine levels may provide symptomatic benefits for patients with these conditions. 

Tardive dyskinesia . TD is defined by hyperkinetic involuntary movements which arise after months or years of treatment with dopamine receptor blocking agents, e.g. antipsychotics for schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and depression, and Reglan &#174; (metoclopramide) for nausea and vomiting and gastric emptying in patients with gastroparesis. Features of the disorder may include grimacing, tongue protrusion, lip smacking, puckering and pursing of the lips, and rapid eye blinking. Rapid movements of the extremities may also occur. The impact on daily function and the quality of life for individuals suffering from TD can be substantial. While the prevalence rates of TD can vary greatly in accordance with the population being studied, it is estimated that approximately 500,000 individuals are affected by TD in the United States alone (Kantar Health). 

To address the unmet medical needs of patients suffering from TD, we are developing NBI-98854 (valbenazine). NBI-98854 is a potent, highly selective, VMAT2 inhibitor that is effective in regulating pre-synaptic release of dopamine. This selectivity should reduce the likelihood of &#147;off target&#148; side effects. Additionally, we have designed this novel compound to provide low, sustained, plasma and brain concentrations of the active drug to minimize the potential side effects associated with excessive dopamine depletion, while at the same time having minimal impact on the other monoamines, e.g. norepinephrine and serotonin. With these features, valbenazine should be well tolerated in patients. Valbenazine has been evaluated in multiple clinical studies to assess its safety, tolerability and efficacy. We believe that the potential efficacy and safety profile of NBI-98854 will address many of the shortcomings of current off-label treatments for TD. Finally, valbenazine may be useful in the treatment of other disorders, such as Huntington&#146;s chorea, schizophrenia, Tourette syndrome and tardive dystonia. 

During 2009, a Phase I single ascending dose clinical trial of NBI-98854 was completed in healthy male volunteers in Canada under an approved Clinical Trial Application with Health Canada. This trial showed valbenazine to be generally safe and well tolerated. There were no serious adverse events, clinically significant drug-related laboratory abnormalities or clinically significant electrocardiogram (ECG) findings. The characteristics of NBI-98854 met the pre-specified pharmacokinetic requirements for the trial: dose proportionality, low maximum concentration with adequate area-under-curve for drug exposure, low variability and a half-life which supports once per day dosing. 

&#160; 

During 2010, we completed a multiple, repeat dose Phase I study of NBI-98854 in healthy male volunteers. This trial also showed NBI-98854 to be generally safe and well tolerated, and again displayed the desired pharmacokinetic requirements. There were no serious adverse events, clinically significant drug-related laboratory abnormalities or clinically significant ECG findings. 

Based on the successful completion of this second Phase I study, we initiated a Phase IIa open label dose exploration study of NBI-98854 in six patients with TD in late 2010. This study was designed to assess, over a twelve-day dosing period, the efficacy, safety and tolerability of NBI-98854 in schizophrenia patients who have moderate to severe TD. The impact on the dyskinesia was assessed utilizing the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). The study inclusion criteria included a baseline total score of at least nine on the first seven physical components of AIMS, with at least two body regions receiving scores of moderate (3) or severe (4). For the study the mean baseline score was 14.3 (AIMS total items 1-7, possible total score of 28). The dosing regimen consisted of three, four-day periods of NBI-98854, at increasing doses of 12.5mg, 25mg, and 50mg administered once daily. After discontinuation of NBI-98854, a seven-day washout period was followed by a final assessment. After the twelve days of dosing, the mean AIMS score decreased to 8.4, a reduction of 41.3%. Reduction in abnormal involuntary movements was shown across multiple assessment points. After the seven-day washout period, most patients&#146; AIMS scores returned to their baseline levels. The adverse events reported during administration of NBI-98854 were transient and mild or moderate including one subject with dizziness and one with restlessness. One subject became anxious and agitated seven days after study medication due to the patient&#146;s return to baseline-intensity TD. 

Upon successful completion of this open-label Phase IIa study, we filed an Investigational New Drug (IND) Application with the FDA to permit the initiation of larger Phase II studies in patients with TD in the United States. 

In September 2011, we began a second Phase II study in TD patients. This 32 patient placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, cross-over study, used a within-subject comparison for safety and efficacy evaluation. Patients were randomized to either 12.5mg or 50mg doses of NBI-98854 for a two-week dosing period, and each patient also had a two-week placebo dosing period. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was a comparison of placebo versus active AIMS scores at the end of the two dosing periods. 

After database lock and unblinding of study data, an inconsistent pattern of AIMS scores emerged at one of the eight sites that was not evident during the blinded data review. Based on these findings, the AIMS data from this single site was removed and a post-hoc analysis was completed which demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in TD symptoms for the subjects receiving the 50mg once daily dose. These subjects had a significant reduction in TD symptoms at the end of two weeks of active treatment versus the end of two weeks of placebo (difference in LS mean of 4.2 for the 50mg period versus the placebo period, p-value=0.002). As expected, the 12.5mg dosing group was not statistically better during the active treatment period than during the placebo period (difference in LS mean of 0.4 for the 12.5mg period versus placebo period, p-value=0.68). 

When including the data from the site in question, this study did not meet the pre-specified primary endpoint of reducing the AIMS scores during active treatment periods. The efficacy results from the entire study population showed a non-significant reduction in TD at the end of two weeks of active treatment versus the end of two weeks of placebo (difference in LS mean of 1.1 for the 50mg period versus the placebo period (n=15), p-value=0.42) (difference in LS mean of 0.7 for the 12.5mg period versus placebo period (n=17), p-value=0.59). 

We also performed a second post-hoc analysis, engaging a single, independent, blinded AIMS assessor to review the videotaped AIMS assessments at all of the eight sites that participated in the trial. This AIMS assessor scored, in a blinded fashion, the videotaped baseline, day fifteen and day twenty-nine AIMS assessments. This independent secondary post-hoc analysis demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in TD symptoms for the subjects receiving the 50mg once daily dose. These subjects had a 

&#160; 

significant reduction in TD symptoms at the end of two weeks of active treatment versus the end of two weeks of placebo (difference in LS mean of 3.0 for the 50mg period versus the placebo period, p-value=0.008). As expected, the 12.5mg dosing group was not statistically better during the active treatment period than during the placebo period (difference in LS mean of 0.7 for the 12.5mg period versus placebo period, p-value=0.54). 

NBI-98854 was generally well tolerated during the fourteen days of treatment. The frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events was 17% during the placebo period and 24% and 32% in the 12.5mg and 50mg treatment periods, respectively. There were no serious adverse events during the treatment period. The most common adverse event was headache and one subject in the 50mg group discontinued due to akathisia. 

The larger Phase IIb TD program began in 2012. The initial Phase IIb study (Kinect 1 Study) was a randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical trial utilizing the capsule formulation of NBI-98854 in moderate to severe TD patients with underlying schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. This 109 subject study assessed two doses of once daily NBI-98854 over a six-week placebo-controlled dosing period. Approximately half of the randomized subjects received placebo and half received one of two doses of NBI-98854. The two NBI-98854 dosing groups consisted of a 50mg group for six weeks and a group that began at 100mg for the initial two weeks and then converted to 50mg for the final four weeks of placebo-controlled dosing period. Subsequent to the placebo-controlled dosing, all subjects were eligible to enter a six-week open label safety extension, during which 50mg of NBI-98854 was administered once daily with additional AIMS assessments. The primary endpoint of the study was a comparison of placebo versus active scores utilizing the AIMS at the end of week six as assessed by the on-site AIMS assessors. 

The 50mg dose of NBI-98854 did not reach statistical significance for the primary endpoint at week six. As discussed below, in a post-hoc analysis, utilizing a blinded central video AIMS assessment, both the 100mg dose (at Week 2) and the 50 mg dose (at Week 6) showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in TD symptoms. 

NBI-98854 was generally well tolerated during the twelve weeks of the Kinect 1 Study. During the six-week placebo-controlled treatment period the frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events was 37% for placebo and 26% for NBI-98854. There were no drug-related serious adverse events. The most common treatment emergent adverse event was mild and transient somnolence during the placebo-controlled portion of the study. 

Participants in the Kinect 1 Study were assessed utilizing the Barnes Akathisia Ratings Scale (BARS) for akathisia and the Simpson-Angus Scale (SAS) for parkinsonism. Both of these scales documented minimal symptoms at baseline and were measured as stable to improved during the twelve weeks of treatment. Subjects were also assessed using various safety scales including the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) for Schizophrenia, the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia and the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS); all of these scores were measured as stable to improved from baseline. Clinical hematology, chemistry and ECG monitoring indicated no emergent safety signals. There were no apparent drug-drug interactions identified in subjects who were utilizing a range of psychotropic and other concomitant medications. 

In November 2013, we convened a Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) to review the results of the Kinect 1 Study. The SAB was formed to specifically focus on the dose levels and the AIMS assessment tool. Based on the results of the Kinect 1 Study and the advice from the SAB, the protocol for the second Phase IIb study (Kinect 2 Study) was amended to change the primary endpoint from on-site AIMS assessments to a blinded central video assessment conducted by two movement disorder specialists who would review the AIMS videos in a scrambled fashion and concur on a final AIMS score for each video. 

The Kinect 2 Study was a randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical trial utilizing the capsule formulation of NBI-98854 in moderate to severe TD patients with underlying mood disorders, schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorders, and gastrointestinal disorders. This study randomized 102 patients into a six-week placebo-controlled dosing period where half of the subjects received placebo and half received 

&#160; 

NBI-98854. The study began with all subjects on once daily 25mg of NBI-98854, or placebo. The treating physician was then permitted to escalate the dose at two-week intervals, at the end of week two and at the end of week four, to a maximum dose of once daily 75mg. The dose escalation was determined by the treating physician based on week two and week four on-site AIMS assessments coupled with safety and tolerability assessments at these same time points. By week six, approximately 70% of the ITT subjects, randomized to NBI-98854, were titrated to the 75 mg dose, approximately 20% were titrated to the 50mg dose and the remaining subjects received 25 mg of NBI-98854. The primary endpoint of the study was a comparison of placebo versus active scores utilizing the AIMS at the end of week six as assessed by scrambled blinded central video assessment conducted by two movement disorder specialists. The mean baseline AIMS score for the placebo group was 7.9 compared to 8.0 for the NBI-98854 group. 

At week six, AIMS scores, as assessed by blinded central video raters, were reduced by 2.6 points in the NBI-98854 intention-to-treat (ITT) group (n=45) compared to a reduction of 0.2 points in the placebo arm (n=44) (p&#60;0.001). Additionally, the responder rate (&#62;= 50% improvement from baseline) was 49% in the NBI-98854 ITT group compared to 18% in placebo (p=0.002). In the per-protocol (PP) group (n=78) AIMS scores were reduced by 3.3 points for those subjects taking NBI-98854 (p&#60;0.001), with a corresponding responder rate of 59% (p&#60;0.001). The improvement in week six AIMS was also corroborated by on-site treating physicians utilizing the Clinical Global Impression&#150;Tardive Dyskinesia (CGI-TD) scale scores. Treating clinicians determined that approximately 67% of the subjects taking NBI-98854 were &#147;much improved&#148; or &#147;very much improved&#148; at week six compared to only 16% of the placebo subjects (p&#60;0.001) in this pre-specified key secondary efficacy endpoint. 

In the Kinect 2 Study NBI-98854 was generally safe and well tolerated. During the six-week treatment period the frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events was 33% for placebo and 43% for NBI-98854. There were no drug related serious adverse events. The most common treatment emergent adverse events were fatigue in five subjects (9.8%) randomized to NBI-98854 versus two subjects (4.1%) in the placebo group, and headache reported by four subjects (7.8%) on NBI-98854 versus two subjects (4.1%) on placebo. Discontinuation rates were similar in both the NBI-98854 and placebo treatment groups with five per study arm (none of which were study drug related). 

Participants in the Kinect 2 Study were assessed utilizing the BARS for akathisia and the SAS for parkinsonism. Both of these scales documented minimal symptoms at baseline and there was no worsening during the six weeks of treatment. Clinical hematology, chemistry and ECG monitoring indicated no emergent safety signals. There were no drug-drug interactions identified in subjects who were utilizing a range of psychotropic and other concomitant medications. 

Subsequent to completion of the Kinect 2 Study, in a post-hoc analysis, the Kinect 1 Study videos were evaluated by performing the same comparison of placebo versus active scores employed in the Kinect 2 Study. We engaged two movement disorder specialists, both of whom were not involved with the Kinect 1 Study, to assess the Kinect 1 Study baseline and week six videos utilizing AIMS in a randomized blinded central video assessment. These raters scored the mean baseline AIMS of 8.0 for the Kinect 1 Study. After six weeks of treatment, these raters scored the placebo group in the Kinect 1 Study with a mean reduction from baseline of 0.1 points while the valbenazine group was scored with a mean reduction from baseline of 1.3 points. Utilizing this analysis, valbenazine in the Kinect 1 Study showed a statistically significant change from baseline. 

The data from the Kinect 1 and Kinect 2 studies, along with the other Phase I and Phase II clinical studies, preclinical work, and drug manufacturing data formed the basis for an end of Phase II meeting that was held with the FDA in June of 2014. During this meeting, the FDA reviewed the current data package and overall clinical development plan for valbenazine including the proposed Phase III development to support the registration of valbenazine in the United States as a treatment for TD. Based on the results of this meeting and the related minutes, we conducted a single placebo-controlled Phase III study of valbenazine, the Kinect 3 Study. 

&#160; 

The Kinect 3 Study was initiated during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Kinect 3 Study is a randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial utilizing the capsule formulation of valbenazine in moderate to severe TD subjects with an underlying diagnosis of mood disorder, schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. The primary endpoint in the Kinect 3 Study was the mean change from baseline in the AIMS as assessed by blinded central raters. The Kinect 3 Study randomized approximately 230 subjects to either placebo, once daily 40mg of valbenazine or once daily 80mg of valbenazine for 6 weeks of placebo-controlled dosing followed by an extension of active dosing through week 48. 

The AIMS ratings at week 6 for the 80mg once-daily NBI-98854 ITT population was reduced 3.1 points (Least-Squares Mean) more than placebo (p&#60;0.0001). In addition to the primary efficacy endpoint, the AIMS rating for the 40mg once-daily dose and the CGI-TD for both doses were also evaluated. The table below summarizes the results of the AIMS ratings and CGI-TD at week 6 for both the ITT population and a preliminary pre-specified per-protocol (PP) population, which excludes subjects whose plasma concentrations of NBI-98854 were below the lower limit of quantitation and it was determined that these subjects had not ingested the study drug. 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Week 6 &#160; &#160; &#160; 40mg qd &#160; &#160; p-value* &#160; &#160; 80mg qd &#160; &#160; p-value* &#160; AIMS Difference from Placebo 

&#160; 

Least-Squares Mean (ITT population) 

&#160; &#160; -1.8 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0021 &#160; &#160; &#160; -3.1 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#60;0.0001 &#160; Least-Squares Mean (PP population) 

&#160; &#160; -2.1 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0009 &#160; &#160; &#160; -3.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#60;0.0001 &#160; CGI-TD Difference from Placebo 

&#160; 

Least-Squares Mean (ITT population) 

&#160; &#160; -0.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0742 &#160; &#160; &#160; -0.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0560 &#160; Least-Squares Mean (PP population) 

&#160; &#160; -0.4 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0097 &#160; &#160; &#160; -0.4 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0122 &#160; &#160;

* Assessment of the significance of p-values based on pre-specified, fixed-sequence testing procedure 

During the six-week placebo-controlled treatment period NBI-98854 was generally well tolerated. The frequency of adverse events was similar among all treatment groups and treatment emergent adverse effects were consistent with those of prior studies. Clinical hematology, chemistry and ECG monitoring indicated no emergent safety signals. There were no drug-drug interactions identified in subjects who were utilizing a wide range of psychotropic and other concomitant medications. 

The Kinect 3 Study is currently completing the 48-week safety extension portion of the study. In addition to the Kinect 3 Study, we are also conducting a separate one-year open-label safety study of 40mg once daily and 80mg once daily valbenazine (the Kinect 4 Study) which we believe will be used to support the filing of a New Drug Application (NDA) in TD that is expected in 2016. 

In October 2014, the FDA granted us breakthrough therapy designation for valbenazine, for the treatment of TD. Breakthrough therapy designation is granted for a drug that is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement on clinically significant endpoints over available therapies. This designation also allows intensive discussions with the FDA which are intended to expedite the development and review process of eligible drugs. 

Tourette syndrome. Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder that consists of rapid, non-rhythmic stereotyped motor and vocal tics. Motor tics are typically characterized by facial grimacing, head jerks, extremity movements and other dystonic movements. Vocal tics typically include grunting, throat clearing, and repeating words and phrases. The average age of onset for Tourette syndrome is approximately six years, with symptoms reaching their peak severity at approximately age ten. Tourette syndrome is more commonly diagnosed in males than females and may also be associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder. We believe there are approximately 400,000 people with Tourette syndrome in the United States. 

&#160; 

We have completed juvenile rodent preclinical studies of valbenazine and based on the results of these preclinical studies, we initiated the T-Force Study in children and adolescents with Tourette syndrome in early 2015. The T-Force Study was an open-label, multiple ascending dose, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and exposure-response of valbenazine in children and adolescents with Tourette syndrome. A total of 28 patients were evaluated over 14 days of once daily dosing followed by 7 days off-drug at approximately 10 study centers in the United States. The study was divided into two dosing groups consisting of children (ages 6-11) and adolescents (ages 12-18), and each age group was further divided into three dosing cohorts. Subsequent dose escalations for children and adolescents were based, in part, on the pharmacokinetic and safety data from the previous cohort in each age group. The Yale Global Tic Severity Scale was also assessed and after two weeks of treatment showed a mean reduction of 31% from baseline scores, with over half of the subjects considered clinical responders. Based on the results of the T-Force study, we initiated the Phase II program in Tourette syndrome. 

The T-Force GREEN study is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-dose, parallel group, Phase II study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of valbenazine in up to 90 pediatric patients with moderate to severe Tourette syndrome. Two once-daily fixed doses of NBI-98854 will be evaluated vs. placebo in a 1:1:1 randomization. The three-arm study will evaluate up to 45 children and 45 adolescents over six weeks of dosing followed by two weeks off-drug at approximately 40 study centers in the United States. The primary endpoint of this study is the change from baseline of the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale between placebo and active treatment groups at the end of week six. Tourette symptoms will also be evaluated via the Rush Video-Based Tic Rating Scale, Premonitory Urge for Tics Scale as well as Clinical Global Impression scales, among others. 

We have also initiated a Phase II clinical trial of valbenazine in adults with Tourette syndrome. The T-Forward study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-dose, parallel group, study that is expected to enroll up to 90 adults with moderate to severe Tourette syndrome. Two once-daily fixed doses of NBI-98854 will be evaluated versus placebo in a 1:1:1 randomization. The three-arm study will evaluate up to 90 patients over eight weeks of dosing followed by two weeks off-drug at approximately 40 study centers in the United States to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of valbenazine in Tourette patients. The primary endpoint of this study is a change from baseline of placebo versus active scores utilizing the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale at the end of week 8. Tourette symptoms will also be evaluated via the Premonitory Urge for Tics Scale as well as Clinical Global Impression of Change scales, among others. 

Data readouts from both of these Phase II Tourette studies are expected around year-end 2016. 

NBI-640756, Essential Tremor 

Essential Tremor. Essential tremor is one of the most common neurological disorders in adults, impacting an estimated 10 million individuals in the United States (International Essential Tremor Foundation). The disorder is characterized by involuntary, rhythmic, oscillatory movements that most often affect the upper limbs. As the disease progresses, tremor severity often increases and spreads to other parts of the body. Essential tremor has a significant impact on the activities of daily living often resulting in functional disability as the disease progresses and is associated with a high comorbidity rate of social phobia, depression and anxiety. Current pharmacological therapies utilized in the treatment of essential tremor include propranolol and primidone. Deep brain stimulation, an invasive procedure involving the implantation of electrodes within certain areas of the brain, is sometimes utilized for severe essential tremor. 

NBI-640756 was discovered in our laboratories. We have initiated a single site, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled sequential dose-escalation, Phase I safety and pharmacokinetics study exploring a once-daily dose of NBI-640756 in up to 32 healthy volunteers. The study will be conducted in multiple sequential cohorts of eight subjects per cohort with top-line data expected the first-half of 2016. If this initial Phase I study is successful, we intend on initiating a multiple ascending dose study of NBI-640756 later in 2016. 

&#160; 

Research Programs 

Our research and development focus is on addressing diseases and disorders of the central nervous and endocrine systems, which include therapeutic categories ranging from HPA disorders to stress-related disorders and neurological/neuropsychiatric diseases. Central nervous system and endocrinology drug therapies are among the largest therapeutic categories, accounting for over $150 billion in worldwide drug sales according to GlobalData (2014). 

Endocrine: Corticotropin-Releasing Factor (CRF) Receptor 1 Antagonist (Classic Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia) 

CRF is a hypothalamic hormone released directly into the hypophyseal portal vasculature which acts on specific CRF 1 receptors on corticotropes in the anterior pituitary to stimulate the release of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The primary role of ACTH is the stimulation of the synthesis and release of adrenal steroids including cortisol. Cortisol from the adrenals have a negative feedback role at the level of the hypothalamus that decreases CRF release as well as at the level of the pituitary to inhibit the release of ACTH. This tight control loop is known as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Blockade of CRF receptors at the pituitary has been shown to decrease the release of ACTH and subsequently attenuate the production and release of adrenal steroids. 

Classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (classic CAH) is a group of autosomal recessive genetic disorders that affects approximately 20,000-30,000 people in the United States and results in an enzyme deficiency altering the production of adrenal steroids. Because of this deficiency, the adrenal glands have little to no cortisol biosynthesis resulting in a potentially life-threatening condition. If left untreated, classic CAH can result in salt wasting, dehydration and eventually death. Even with cortisol replacement, persistent elevation of ACTH from the pituitary gland results in excessive androgen levels leading to virilization of females including precocious puberty, menstrual irregularity, short stature, hirsutism, acne and fertility problems. 

Corticosteroids are the current standard of care for classic CAH and are used chronically to both correct the endogenous cortisol deficiency and reduce the excessive ACTH levels and androgen excess. However, the dose and duration of steroid use required to suppress ACTH is well above the normal physiological level of cortisol; resulting in metabolic syndrome, bone loss, growth impairment, and Cushing&#146;s syndrome as common and serious side effects. 

Blockade of CRF receptors at the pituitary has been shown to decrease the release of ACTH, which in turn decreases the production of adrenal steroids including androgens, and potentially the symptoms associated with classic CAH. Lower ACTH levels would also reduce the amount of exogenous corticosteroid necessary for classic CAH patients to thrive avoiding the side-effects currently associated with excessive steroid therapy. 

In 2014, we conducted an initial pilot clinical trial of NBI-77860 in adult females with refractory classic CAH. The trial was a blinded, single-site, pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study assessing two single, ascending doses of NBI-77860 against placebo. The eight study participants visited the investigative site for three separate overnight visits consisting of bedtime dosing with placebo or one of two active doses of NBI-77860. Each of the visits was separated by a three-week washout period. Key pharmacodynamic biomarker measurements included ACTH, 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP), androgens, and cortisol levels collected in the morning after dosing. Data from this initial single dose exploratory study demonstrated a robust decrease in both ACTH and 17-OHP. 

Based on the results of this initial pilot clinical study we initiated certain preclinical studies in juvenile rodents to permit NBI-77860 to be clinically evaluated in younger patients. The results of these preclinical studies showed certain toxicological findings that were not observed in previous animal studies. We have determined that these findings are specific to NBI-77860 and have halted all clinical development of NBI-77860. 

&#160; 

We have a strategic position in the CRF field through our intellectual property portfolio and relationship with experts in the endocrine and neuropsychiatric fields. We have patents covering both the receptor subtypes termed CRF 1 and CRF 2 , and we have pending patent applications on small molecule organic compounds modulating the CRF receptors. 

We are currently investigating two other CRF antagonist compounds in preclinical evaluations and anticipate filing an IND for at least one of these compounds as well as initiating a Phase I study during 2016. 

Neurological/Neuropsychiatric: VMAT2 Inhibitors 

VMAT2 inhibition results in the modulation of dopamine pathways which may also be useful for patients suffering from schizophrenia. Approximately 2.2 million people in the Unites States suffer from schizophrenia at an estimated annual cost of $62 billion. Our discovery efforts around VMAT2 inhibitors also focus on developing novel therapies for schizophrenia sufferers. 

CNS Disorders (Targeted by G Protein-Coupled Receptors and Ion Channels) 

G Protein-Coupled Receptors (GPCRs) are the largest known gene superfamily of the human genome. Greater than thirty percent of all marketed prescription drugs act on GPCRs; which makes this class of proteins historically the most successful therapeutic target family. However, only a small fraction of the GPCR gene superfamily has been exploited. Ion channels appear to be represented by approximately 400 genes in the human genome and are currently the targets for approximately seven percent of the current marketed drugs. Next generation therapies derived from targeting GPCRs and ion channels will be discovered through the understanding of the complex relationships of drug/receptor interactions and their subsequent impact on efficacy, downstream signaling networks and regulation. 

Our GPCR research platform has met this requirement by integrating drug discovery research efforts with a suite of assays and assay systems and automated analytical techniques. This process, now also applied to ion channels, provides an unbiased profile of pharmacological protein/ligand interactions coupled with in vivo efficacy using discrete animal models allowing for rapid discovery of initial leads and advancement into preclinical and clinical development. Importantly, this design cycle is not limited to GPCRs or ion channel targets, but can be utilized for other recently identified proteins that play a role in human disease where current treatments or therapies are either inadequate or nonexistent. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our goal is to become the leading biopharmaceutical company focused on neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. The following are the key elements of our business strategy: 

Continuing to Advance and Build Our Product Portfolio Focused on Neurological and Endocrine-Related Diseases and Disorders. We believe that by continuing to advance and extend our product pipeline, we can mitigate some of the clinical development risks associated with drug development. We currently have multiple programs in various stages of research and development. Our two lead late-stage clinical programs are elagolix, a GnRH antagonist in Phase III development for endometriosis and uterine fibroids that is partnered with AbbVie, and a VMAT2 inhibitor for the treatment of movement disorders that is currently in Phase III development for TD and in Phase II development for Tourette syndrome. We take a portfolio approach to managing our pipeline that balances the size of the market opportunities with clear and defined clinical and regulatory paths to approval. We do this to ensure that we focus our internal development resources on innovative therapies with improved probabilities of technical and commercial success. 

Maintaining Certain Commercial Rights to Our Product Portfolio to Evolve into a Fully-Integrated Pharmaceutical Company. We intend to retain commercial rights to certain products, including valbenazine, that 

&#160; 

we can effectively and efficiently develop, secure regulatory approval and economically commercialize. These include products with a concentrated prescriber base and well-defined patient population that can be accessed with an efficient patient and prescriber outreach program. 

Selectively Establishing Corporate Collaborations with Global Pharmaceutical Companies to Assist in the Development of Our Products and Mitigate Financial Risk while Retaining Significant Commercial Upside. We leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our corporate collaborators to accelerate the development of certain of our potential products, while typically retaining co-promotional rights, and at times commercial rights, in North America. We intend to further leverage our resources by selectively entering into additional strategic alliances to enhance our internal development and commercialization capabilities by licensing our technology. 

Identifying Novel Drugs to Address Unmet Market Opportunities. We seek to identify and validate novel drugs on characterized targets for internal development or collaboration. For example, GnRH antagonists, compounds designed to reduce the secretions of sex steroids, may represent the first novel non-peptide, non-injectable means of treatment of endometriosis. We believe the creativity and productivity of our discovery research group will continue to be a critical component for our continued success. Research and development costs were $81.5 million, $46.4 million and $39.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Acquiring Rights to Complementary Drug Candidates and Technologies. We plan to continue to selectively acquire rights to products in various stages of development to take advantage of our drug development capabilities. 

Our Corporate Collaborations and Strategic Alliances 

One of our business strategies is to utilize strategic alliances to enhance our development and commercialization capabilities. The following is a summary of our significant collaborations/alliances: 

AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) . In June 2010, we announced an exclusive worldwide collaboration with AbbVie to develop and commercialize elagolix and all next-generation GnRH antagonists (collectively, GnRH Compounds) for women&#146;s and men&#146;s health. AbbVie made an upfront payment of $75 million and has agreed to make additional development and regulatory event based payments of up to $480 million and up to an additional $50 million in commercial event based payments. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie is responsible for all development, marketing and commercialization costs. We received funding for certain internal collaboration expenses which included reimbursement from AbbVie for internal and external expenses related to the GnRH Compounds and personnel funding through the end of 2012. We will be entitled to a percentage of worldwide sales of GnRH Compounds for the longer of ten years or the life of the related patent rights. Under the terms of our agreement with AbbVie, the collaborative development effort between the parties to advance GnRH compounds towards commercialization was governed by a joint development committee with representatives from both us and AbbVie. The collaborative development portion of the agreement concluded, as scheduled, on December 31, 2012. AbbVie may terminate the collaboration at its discretion upon 180 days written notice to us. In such event, we would be entitled to specified payments for ongoing clinical development and related activities and all GnRH Compound product rights would revert to us. Since the inception of the agreement, we have recorded revenues of $75.0 million related to the amortization of up-front license fees, $30.0 million in milestone revenue, and $37.0 million of sponsored development revenue. 

Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (Mitsubishi Tanabe). In March 2015, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe for the development and commercialization of valbenazine for movement disorders in Japan and other select Asian markets. Mitsubishi Tanabe made an up-front license fee payment of $30 million and has agreed to make additional development and commercialization event-based payments totaling up to $85 million, payments for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products, and 

&#160; 

royalties on product sales in select territories in Asia. Under the terms of the agreement, Mitsubishi Tanabe is responsible for all third-party development, marketing and commercialization costs in Japan and other select Asian markets with the exception of a single Huntington&#146;s chorea clinical trial to be performed by us, at an estimated cost of approximately $12 million, should Mitsubishi Tanabe request the clinical trial. We will be entitled to a percentage of sales of NBI-98854 in Japan and other select Asian markets for the longer of ten years or the life of the related patent rights. Mitsubishi Tanabe may terminate the agreement at its discretion upon 180 days&#146; written notice to the Company. In such event, all NBI-98854 product rights for Japan and other select Asian markets would revert to the Company. 

The Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York (Mt. Sinai). In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with Mt. Sinai pursuant to which we acquired a nonexclusive license to certain patents and patent applications related to GnRH, to develop and commercialize licensed products worldwide. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we have the right to grant sublicenses to third parties only with the prior written consent of Mt. Sinai. Upon entering into the agreement, we paid a $50,000 upfront fee and are required to pay an additional $10,000 annual license fee on each anniversary of the agreement. In addition, we are obligated to pay Mt. Sinai a royalty equal to 1% of net sales of licensed products. The agreement will remain in effect until the later of 15 years after the date of the first commercial sale of the first licensed product or the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, unless terminated earlier at our election or for material breach by either party. Mt. Sinai also has the right to terminate the agreement if we become insolvent or bankrupt or have suspended our business operations. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, in the event that Mt. Sinai grants a third party a license to the GnRH patents and patent applications on economic terms and conditions less favorable to Mt. Sinai than those in our agreement, we have the right to substitute the terms and conditions of the other third party license for those currently set forth in our agreement. In December 2015, Mt. Sinai initiated litigation against us related to an alleged breach of our agreement (see Item 3 &#147;Legal Proceedings&#148; in this Form 10-K) 

Intellectual Property 

We seek to protect our lead compounds, compound libraries, expressed proteins, synthetic organic processes, formulations, assays, cloned targets, screening technology and other technologies by filing, or by causing to be filed on our behalf, patent applications in the United States and abroad. Additionally, we have licensed from institutions the rights to issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, and issued and pending foreign filings. We face the risk that one or more of the above patent applications may be denied. We also face the risk that issued patents that we own or license may be challenged or circumvented or may otherwise not provide protection for any commercially viable products we develop. 

The technologies we use in our research, as well as the drug targets we select, may infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. If this occurs, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue with the commercialization of our products. 

In addition to the granted and potential patent protection, the United States, the European Union and Japan all provide data and marketing exclusivity for new medicinal compounds. If this protection is available, no competitor may use the original applicant&#146;s data as the basis of a generic marketing application during the period of data and marketing exclusivity. This period of exclusivity is generally five years in the United States, six years in Japan and ten years in the European Union, measured from the date of FDA, or corresponding foreign, approval. 

Elagolix, our small molecule GnRH antagonist currently in clinical trials for the treatment of endometriosis and uterine fibroids, is covered by six issued U.S. patents relating to composition of matter, pharmaceutical compositions, and methods of use. U.S. Patent Nos. 6,872,728, 7,179,815 and 7,462,625 are due to expire in 2021 (not including potential patent term extensions of up to five years) while U.S. Patent Nos. 7,056,927, 7,176,211 and 7,419,983 are due to expire in 2024 (not including potential patent term extensions of up to five years). 

&#160; 

Valbenazine, our highly selective VMAT2 inhibitor, currently in clinical trials for the treatment of TD and Tourette syndrome, is covered by U.S. Patent No. 8,039,627 which expires in 2029 and U.S. Patent No. 8,357,697 which expires in 2027 (not including a potential patent term extension of up to five years). NBI-98854 is also covered by European Patent No. 2,081,929 which expires in 2027. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We currently rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical and clinical trials. In addition, we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture any products that we may commercialize in the future. We have established an internal pharmaceutical development group to develop manufacturing methods for our product candidates, to optimize manufacturing processes, and to select and transfer these manufacturing technologies to our suppliers. We contract with multiple manufacturers to ensure adequate product supply and to mitigate risk. 

There currently are a limited number of these manufacturers. Furthermore, some of the contract manufacturers that we have identified to date only have limited experience at manufacturing, formulating, analyzing and packaging our product candidates in quantities sufficient for conducting clinical trials or for commercialization. 

We currently have no distribution capabilities. In order to independently commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either internally develop distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. 

Marketing and Sales 

We currently have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products. To market any of our products independently would require us to develop a sales force with technical expertise along with establishing commercial infrastructure and capabilities. 

Government Regulation 

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All of our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. In the United States, various federal and state statutes and regulation also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, and record-keeping of human therapeutic products and their marketing. Recent federal legislation imposes additional obligations on pharmaceutical manufacturers regarding product tracking and tracing. 

In addition, federal and state healthcare laws restrict business practices in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include, without limitation, federal and state fraud and abuse laws, false claims laws, data privacy and security laws, as well as transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute makes it illegal for any person or entity, including a prescription drug manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf) to knowingly and willfully, directly or indirectly, solicit, receive, offer, or pay any remuneration that is intended to induce the referral of business, including the purchase, order, lease of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. 

&#160; 

Federal false claims and false statement laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act, prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to, or approval by, federal programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for items or services, including drugs, that are false or fraudulent or not provided as claimed. 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, knowingly and willfully stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. 

Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. Additionally, to the extent that our product is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws. 

HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and their implementing regulations, requires certain types of individuals and entities to abide by standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, including the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, certain state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA and many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (CMS) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by the physicians and their immediate family members. 

Failure to comply with these laws, where applicable, can result in significant penalties, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. 

Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and efficacy of a product. Drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an IND application before clinical trials can begin in humans. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time consuming and costly three-phase process. 

&#160;

Phase I 

&#160; Clinical trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile, maximum tolerated dose and pharmacological properties of the product in human volunteers. 

Phase II 

&#160; Clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety. 

Phase III 

&#160; Large-scale, multi-center, comparative clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine safety and efficacy as primary support for regulatory approval by the FDA to market a product candidate for a specific disease. 

&#160; 

The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the United States and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA&#146;s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date, we have also conducted some of our clinical trials in Europe, Canada, Oceania and South Africa. Clinical trials conducted in foreign countries are also subject to oversight by regulatory authorities in those countries. 

Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA in the form of an NDA or a biologics license application for approval to commence commercial sales. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has a goal of ten months from the date of filing of a standard NDA for a new molecular entity to review and act on the submission. This review typically takes twelve months from the date the NDA is submitted to FDA because the FDA has approximately two months to make a &#147;filing&#148; decision. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003 (PREA) as amended and reauthorized, certain NDAs or supplements to an NDA must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. 

The FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) plan to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and/or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries, or other risk minimization tools. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held meets standards designed to assure the product&#146;s continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA may refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA may inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with Good Clinical Practice requirements. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing in order for FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of 

&#160; 

this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA will typically issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. 

Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution and use restrictions or other risk management mechanisms under a REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

We will also have to complete an approval process similar to that in the United States in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the United States. The resulting prices may not be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our corporate collaborators. 

Special FDA Expedited Review and Approval Programs 

The FDA has various programs, including fast track designation, accelerated approval, priority review, and breakthrough therapy designation, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for the development and FDA review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of serious or life threatening diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. The purpose of these programs is to provide important new drugs to patients earlier than under standard FDA review procedures. 

To be eligible for a fast track designation, the FDA must determine, based on the request of a sponsor, that a product is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need. The FDA will determine that a product will fill an unmet medical need if it will provide a therapy where none exists or provide a therapy that may be potentially superior to existing therapy based on efficacy or safety factors. The FDA may review sections of the NDA for a fast track product on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the NDA and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA. 

The FDA may give a priority review designation to drugs that offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. A priority review means that the goal for the FDA to review an application is six months, rather than the standard review of ten months under current PDUFA guidelines. These six and ten month review periods are measured from the filing date rather than the receipt date for NDAs for new molecular entities, which typically adds approximately two months to the timeline for review and decision from the date of submission. Most products that are eligible for fast track designation are also likely to be considered appropriate to receive a priority review. 

In addition, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may be eligible for accelerated approval and may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict 

&#160; 

an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval to perform post-marketing studies to verify and describe the predicted effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical endpoint, and the drug may be subject to accelerated withdrawal procedures. 

A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. 

Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP requirements and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product approvals; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors provide coverage and establish adequate reimbursement levels for such drug products. 

In the United States, third-party payors include federal and state healthcare programs, government authorities, private managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical drug products and medical services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy. Such payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. We may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Nonetheless, our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. 

Moreover, the process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the price of a drug product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that such a payor will pay for the drug product. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the drug product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

The marketability of any product candidates for which we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Healthcare Reform 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. 

&#160; 

By way of example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively the ACA, was signed into law, which intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the provisions of the ACA of importance to our potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; extension of a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. 

We expect that the ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payor. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of our product candidates from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research institutions, government agencies and academic institutions. Competition may also arise from, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; other drug development technologies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease, including vaccines; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; new small molecule or other classes of therapeutic agents. 

Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are performing research on or developing products for the treatment of several disorders including endometriosis, tardive dyskinesia, uterine fibroids, Tourette syndrome, classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia, stress-related disorders, pain, and other neurological and endocrine-related diseases and disorders. 

&#160; 

Lupron Depot &#174; , marketed by AbbVie, and Synarel &#174; and depo-subQ provera104 &#174; , marketed by Pfizer, are products that have been approved for the treatment of endometriosis, infertility, and central precocious puberty. These drugs, and any generic alternatives, may compete with any small molecule non-peptide GnRH antagonists we, in conjunction with our collaborative partner AbbVie, develop for these indications. Approximately 130,000 hysterectomies are performed annually in the United States as a direct result of endometriosis, as well as a significant number of laparoscopic procedures to ablate endometrial explants. Our oral small molecule pharmaceutical agent, elagolix, would also compete directly with these current invasive standards of care. 

We, in conjunction with our collaborative partner AbbVie, are developing elagolix for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids. There are no current pharmaceutical therapies approved in the United States for the chronic treatment of uterine fibroids. Lupron Depot &#174; is approved for short-term use to improve the outcome of uterine fibroid surgery. However, approximately 250,000 hysterectomies are performed annually in the United States as a direct result of uterine fibroids, as well as myomectomies (surgery) to remove the fibroids. Our oral small molecule pharmaceutical agent, elagolix, would compete directly with these current invasive standards of care. Additionally, Esmya &#174; (ulipristal) by Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is being evaluated in Phase III clinical trials for potential use in the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids. 

Our VMAT2 inhibitor, valbenazine, is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of movement disorders, specifically TD and Tourette syndrome. At present there are no approved drug therapies for TD; however, off-label treatment regimens consist of utilizing various atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., clozapine), benzodiazepines (off-label) or botulinum toxin injections to treat the movements associated with TD. Generic neuroleptic medications (pimozide and haloperidol) as well as Abilify &#174; (apriprizole) are approved by the FDA to control the tics associated with Tourette syndrome. Additionally, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is conducting clinical trials for its VMAT2 inhibitor SD-809 for the treatment of TD and Tourette syndrome and has filed an NDA for the chorea associated with Huntington&#146;s disease for the same compound. Other potential indications for our VMAT2 inhibitor are Huntington&#146;s disease, schizophrenia and tardive dystonia. Currently, Xenazine &#174; , marketed by Lundbeck, as well as its generic alternatives, are approved for the chorea associated with Huntington&#146;s disease. 

NBI-640756 is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of essential tremor. Current pharmacological therapies utilized in the treatment of essential tremor include propranolol and primidone. Deep brain stimulation, an invasive procedure involving the implantation of electrodes within certain areas of the brain, is sometimes utilized for severe essential tremor. Additionally, Sage Therapeutics is conducting clinical trials for its GABA modulator SAGE-547 for essential tremor. 

We are studying CRF antagonists for treating classic CAH, for which there are limited therapies. High doses of corticosteroids are the current standard of care to both correct the endogenous cortisol deficiency as well as reduce the excessive ACTH levels. However, the level of dose as well as the duration of steroid use required to suppress ACTH is well above the normal physiological level of cortisol; resulting in metabolic syndrome, bone loss, growth impairment, and Cushing&#146;s syndrome as common and serious side effects. 

If one or more of these competitive products or programs are successful, it may reduce or eliminate the market for our products. 

Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capital resources; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; research and development resources, including personnel and technology; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; regulatory experience; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preclinical study and clinical testing experience; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; manufacturing and marketing experience; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; production facilities. 

Any of these competitive factors could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, which could negatively affect our stock price. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 120 full-time employees, of which 32 hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees, and 23 others hold an M.S., M.B.A., or equivalent degrees. Of these full-time employees, 94 were engaged in, or directly support, research and development activities, and 26 were in general and administrative positions. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. In addition, we rely on a number of consultants to assist us. 

Insurance 

We maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for products in development. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. In addition, we may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at www.neurocrine.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov . 

Additionally, copies of our Annual Report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. 

&#160; 

