 Item 1. BUSINESS 

General 

NCR Corporation and its subsidiaries (NCR or the Company, also referred to as &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) provide technology solutions and services that help businesses connect, interact and transact with their customers. 

Businesses 

NCR Corporation is a leading global technology company that provides innovative products and services that enable businesses to connect, interact and transact with their customers and enhance their customer relationships by addressing consumer demand for convenience, value and individual service. Our portfolio of self-service and assisted-service solutions serve customers in the financial services, retail, hospitality, travel and telecommunications and technology industries. Our offerings include software and hardware solutions for automated teller machines (ATMs) and bank branches, retail and hospitality point of sale applications and devices, and self-service kiosks and software applications that can be used by consumers to enable them to interact with businesses from their computer or mobile device. We complement these product solutions by offering a complete portfolio of services to support both NCR and third party solutions. We also resell third-party networking products and provide related service offerings in the telecommunications and technology sectors. 

Industries Served 

NCR provides specific solutions for customers of varying sizes in a range of industries such as financial services, retail, hospitality, travel and telecommunications and technology. NCR&#8217;s solutions are built on a foundation of long-established industry knowledge and consulting expertise, value-added software and hardware technology, global customer support services, and a complete line of business consumables and specialty media products. 

Company History 

NCR was originally incorporated in 1884 and was a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange prior to its merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&#38;T Corp. (AT&#38;T) on September 19, 1991. Subsequently, on December 31, 1996, AT&#38;T distributed all of its interest in NCR to its stockholders. NCR common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol &#8220;NCR&#8221;. 

On September 30, 2007, NCR completed the spin-off of its Teradata Data Warehousing business through the distribution of a tax-free stock dividend to NCR stockholders. NCR distributed one share of common stock of Teradata Corporation for each share of NCR common stock to NCR stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 14, 2007. 

Significant Transactions 

In May 2015, the Company completed the transfer of its UK London pension plan to an insurer. The transaction materially reduced pension liability, participants, and enterprise risk as part of our overall pension de-risking strategy. As a result of the transaction, the Company recorded a $427 million settlement loss. 

On December 4, 2015, NCR completed the sale of $820 million of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with Blackstone Capital Partners VI L.P. and Blackstone Tactical Opportunities L.L.C. (collectively, Blackstone). Proceeds from the sale were used, along with cash on hand and borrowings from our revolving facilities, to complete the repurchase, through a modified &#8220;Dutch auction&#8221; tender offer, of $1 billion of our common stock. 

Operating Segments 

We categorize our operations into four reportable segments: Financial Services, Retail Solutions, Hospitality, and Emerging Industries. 

The information required by Item 1 with respect to our reportable segments and financial information regarding our geographic areas and those reportable segments can be found in Item 7 of Part II of this Report under &#8220;Revenue and Operating Income by Segment&#8221; as well as in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 14, &#8220;Segment Information and Concentrations&#8221; &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

As of January 1, 2016, NCR began management of its business on a solution basis, changing from the previous model of management on a line of business basis. This change to our segment reporting for fiscal year 2016 and future periods is further described in Note 1, &#8220;Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies&#8221; &#32;&#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. 

Products and Services 

We sell products and services that help businesses connect, interact and transact with their customers. Our product and service offerings fall into the following categories: 

ATMs and Other Financial Products 

We provide financial institutions, retailers and independent deployers with financial-oriented self-service technologies, such as ATMs, cash dispensers, software solutions, including the APTRA&#8482; self-service ATM software application suite (providing ATM management systems), cash management and video banking software and customer-facing digital banking services, as well as professional services related to ATM security, software and bank branch optimization. ATM and other financial product solutions are designed to quickly and reliably process consumer transactions and incorporate advanced features such as automated check cashing and deposit, automated cash deposit, web-enablement and bill payment (including mobile bill payment). These solutions help enable businesses to reduce costs and generate new revenue streams while enhancing customer loyalty. 

Point of Sale 

We provide retail- and hospitality-oriented technologies such as point of sale terminals and point of sale software, bar-code scanners and other retail-oriented software and services to retailers, restaurants, food service companies and entertainment and sports venues worldwide. Combining our retail and hospitality industry expertise, software and hardware technologies, and professional services, our solutions are designed to enable cost reductions and improve operational efficiency while increasing customer satisfaction. 

Self-Service Kiosks 

We provide self-service kiosks and related operating software to the retail, hospitality and travel industries. Our versatile kiosk solutions can support numerous retail self-service functions, including self-checkout, wayfinding (locating products or navigating through large, complex buildings and campuses), digital signage, bill payment and gift registries. We provide self-check in/out kiosk solutions to airlines, hotels and casinos that allow guests to check in/out without assistance. These solutions create pleasant and convenient experiences for consumers and enable our customers to reduce costs. Our kiosks for the hospitality industry provide consumers the ability to order and pay at restaurants while enabling our customers to streamline order processing and reduce operating costs. 

Check and Document Imaging 

Our check and document imaging offerings provide end-to-end solutions for both traditional paper-based and image-based check and item processing. These solutions utilize advanced image recognition and workflow technologies to automate item processing, helping financial institutions increase efficiency and reduce operating costs. Consisting of hardware, software, professional and support services, our comprehensive check and document imaging solutions enable check- and item-based transactions to be digitally captured, processed and retained within a flexible, scalable environment. 

Consumables 

We develop, produce and market a complete line of printer consumables for various print technologies. These products include two-sided thermal paper (2ST &#174; ), paper rolls for receipts in ATMs and POS solutions, inkjet and laser printer supplies, thermal transfer and ink ribbons, labels, laser documents, business forms and specialty media items such as photo and presentation papers. Consumables are designed to optimize operations and improve transaction accuracy, while reducing overall costs. 

Services 

Services are an essential and integrated component of NCR&#8217;s complete solution offerings. We provide maintenance and support services for our product offerings and also provide other services including site assessment and preparation, staging, installation and implementation, systems management and complete managed services. We provide Predictive Services, a managed services offering, which is designed to predict and address information technology issues quickly before they happen. 

We also offer a range of software and services such as cloud (or software-as-a-service) solutions, hosted services, and online, mobile and transactional services and applications such as bill pay. In addition, we are also focused on expanding the resale of third party networking products and related service offerings to a broader base of customers in the telecommunications and technology sectors and servicing third party computer hardware from select manufacturers who value and leverage our global service capability. 

Target Markets and Distribution Channels 

Our ATMs and other financial product solutions primarily serve the financial services industry with particular focus on retail banking, which includes traditional providers of consumer banking and financial services. These solutions also serve the retail markets through convenience banking products for retailers designed to complement their core businesses. Customers are located throughout the world in both developed and emerging markets. We have historically sold most of our ATMs and financial products and services through a direct sales channel, although a portion of revenue is derived through distributors and value-added resellers. 

We provide self-service kiosk and POS solutions to the retail, hospitality and travel industries. Retail customers include department stores, specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, catalog stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets, grocery stores, drug stores, wholesalers, convenience stores, petroleum outlets and small businesses. Hospitality customers include retailers, restaurants and food service providers, and sports and entertainment venues (including stadiums, arenas and cinemas) and small businesses. Travel customers include airlines, airports, car rental companies, and hotel/lodging operators. Self-service kiosk and POS solutions are sold through a direct sales force and through relationships with value-added resellers, distributors, dealers and other indirect sales channels. We have focused our investments and resources on self-service technologies with expanded offerings to include self-ticketing and mobile check-in for the travel industry. 

Our imaging solutions primarily serve the financial services industry globally, with the primary focus on banks. We have historically distributed most of our imaging products and services through a direct sales channel, although certain revenue is derived through sales by value-added resellers and distributors. 

Our consumables products are sold to the financial services, retail and hospitality industries as well as to customers involved in transportation and manufacturing. These products are also sold through a direct sales force as well as through various channel partners including office product retailers, contract stationers, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers and, additionally, through telemarketing and the Internet. 

We provide service and support for our products and solutions through service contracts with our customers. We have also established managed service contracts with key customers and continue to pursue additional managed service relationships. Longer term managed service arrangements can help improve the efficiency and performance of the customer&#8217;s business, and also increase the strategic and financial importance of its relationship with NCR. We also service competing technologies&#8212;for example, ToshibaTec retail technologies and Diebold ATMs. The primary sales channel for our services is our direct sales teams, which exist across all geographies where we operate around the world. Our services professionals provide these services directly to end customers. 

Competition 

In the financial services industry, we face a variety of competitors, including Diebold, Wincor Nixdorf GmbH &#38; Co. (Wincor) and Hyosung, as well as many other regional firms, across all geographies. The primary factors of competition can vary, but typically include: value and quality of the solutions or products; total cost of ownership; industry knowledge of the vendor; the vendor&#8217;s ability to provide and support a total end-to-end solution; the vendor&#8217;s ability to integrate new and existing systems; fit of the vendor&#8217;s strategic vision with the customer&#8217;s strategic direction; and quality of the vendor&#8217;s support and consulting services. 

We face a variety of competitors in the retail and hospitality industries across all geographies. We believe that key competitive factors can vary by geographic area but typically include: value and quality of the solutions or products; total cost of ownership; industry knowledge of the vendor; and knowledge, experience and quality of the vendor&#8217;s consulting, deployment and support services. Our competitors vary by market segment, product, service offering and geographic area, and include ToshibaTec, Wincor, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Honeywell, Oracle, Verifone and Datalogic, among others. 

We face a diverse group of competitors in the travel industry. Competitors in the travel industry include IBM, SITA and IER, among others. 

We face competition for services from other technology and service providers, as well as from independent service operators, in all geographies where we operate around the world. The primary services competitors are the companies identified in the descriptions of our other solutions as global technology providers are becoming more focused on services as a core business strategy. We also compete with a range of regional and local independent service operators across our various geographies. 

Competition for printer consumables is significant and varies by geographic area and product group. The primary areas of competitive differentiation typically include: quality; logistics and supply chain management; and total cost of ownership. While price is always a factor, we focus on the customer&#8217;s total cost of ownership for our consumables products. Total cost of ownership takes into account not only the per-unit cost, but also service, usage, reporting and support costs. Our competitors include, among others, RiteMade Paper and Schades. 

We face competition in the financial services industry for imaging solutions across all geographies where we operate around the world. The primary areas of competition can vary, but typically include: quality of the solutions or products; total cost of ownership; industry knowledge; the vendor&#8217;s ability to provide and support a total end-to-end solution; the vendor&#8217;s ability to integrate new and existing systems; fit of the vendor&#8217;s strategic vision with the customer&#8217;s strategic direction; and quality of the vendor&#8217;s support and consulting services. Our competitors vary by product, service offering and geographic area, and include Fidelity National Information Services and Unisys Corporation, among others. 

Research and Development 

We remain focused on designing and developing solutions and services that anticipate our customers&#8217; changing technological needs as well as consumer preferences. Our expenses for research and development were $230 million &#32;in 2015 , $263 million &#32;in 2014 , and $203 million &#32;in 2013 . We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future in order to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services and to help maintain and enhance our competitive position. Information regarding the accounting and costs included in research and development activities is included in Note 1, &#8220;Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies&#8221; &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Patents and Trademarks 

NCR seeks patent protection for its innovations, including improvements, associated with its products, services, and developments, where such protection is likely to provide value to NCR. NCR owns approximately 1,450 patents in the U.S. and numerous other patents in foreign countries. The foreign patents are generally counterparts of NCR&#8217;s U.S. patents. Many of the patents owned by NCR are licensed to others, and NCR is licensed under certain patents owned by others. NCR has active patent licensing programs. NCR also has numerous patent applications pending in the U.S. and in foreign countries. NCR&#8217;s portfolio of patents and patent applications, in the aggregate, is of significant value to NCR. 

NCR has registered certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in a number of foreign countries. NCR considers the &#8220;NCR&#8221; and NCR logo marks and many of its other trademarks and service marks to be valuable assets. 

Seasonality 

Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on variability in the volume, timing and mix of product sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months. Information regarding seasonality and its potential impact on our business is included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption, &#8220;Operating Results Fluctuations,&#8221; and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize. However, there are some services and components that are purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology or other reasons. For example, we depend on computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses who provide us with critical products for our solutions. 

At December 31, 2015 , we manufactured our ATMs in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; Manaus, Brazil; Budapest, Hungary; Beijing, China; Puducherry, India and Chengalpattu, India. Our self-checkout solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA and Budapest, Hungary. Our financial kiosk solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Beijing, China; Budapest, Hungary; Manaus, Brazil; Puducherry, India and Chengalpattu, India. Our POS/Display terminals are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; Beijing, China; Budapest, Hungary; Salzburg, Austria; and Adelaide, Australia, and certain hand-held solutions are manufactured in Salzburg, Austria. NCR outsources the manufacturing in all geographic regions of its payment solutions, some POS/Display terminals, printers, bar code scanners and various other kiosks. 

Further information regarding the potential impact of these relationships on our business operations, and regarding sources and availability of raw materials, is also included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption &#8220;Reliance on Third Parties,&#8221; and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Product Backlog 

Our backlog was approximately $1.11 billion &#32;and $1.10 billion &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. The backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped as well as certain professional and transaction services to be provided. Although we believe that the orders included in the backlog are firm, some orders may be canceled by the customer without penalty. Even when penalties for cancellation are provided for in a customer contract, we may elect to permit cancellation of orders without penalty where management believes it is in our best interests to do so. Further, we have a significant portion of revenue derived from our growing service-based business (including our cloud and hosted businesses) as well as the acquired Digital Insight Corporation and Retalix Ltd. businesses and our consumables business, for which backlog information is not measured. Therefore, we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of revenue for any future period. 

Employees 

On December 31, 2015 , NCR had approximately 32,600 &#32;employees and contractors worldwide. 

Environmental Matters 

Compliance with federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the protection of the environment could have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. While NCR does not currently expect to incur material capital expenditures related to compliance with such laws and regulations, and while we believe the amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities in this area, there can be no assurances that environmental matters will not lead to a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. A detailed discussion of the current estimated impacts of compliance issues relating to environmental regulations, particularly the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters, is reported in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies," &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Further information regarding the potential impact of compliance with federal, state, and local environmental regulations is also included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption &#8220;Environmental,&#8221; and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The Executive Officers of NCR (as of February 26, 2016 ) are as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position and Offices Held 

William R. Nuti 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

Michael B. Bayer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and President, Retail Solutions Division 

Robert P. Fishman 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Edward R. Gallagher 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

Andrew S. Heyman 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and President, Financial Services Division 

Andrea L. Ledford 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Human Resources Officer 

Frederick ("Rick") Marquardt 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Services, Enterprise Quality and T&#38;T 

Set forth below is a description of the background of each of the Executive Officers. 

William R. Nuti, is NCR's Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Nuti became Chairman of the Board on October 1, 2007. Before joining NCR in August 2005, Mr. Nuti served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Symbol Technologies, Inc., an information technology company. Prior to that, he was Chief Operating Officer of Symbol Technologies. Mr. Nuti joined Symbol Technologies in 2002 following a 10 plus year career at Cisco Systems, Inc. where he advanced to the dual role of Senior Vice President of the company's Worldwide Service Provider Operations and U.S. Theater Operations. Prior to his Cisco experience, Mr. Nuti held sales and management positions at IBM, Netrix Corporation and Network Equipment Technologies. Mr. Nuti is also a director of Coach, Inc., where he is a member of its Audit, Human Resources, and Governance &#38; Nominating Committees, and United Continental Holdings, Inc. where he is a member of its Audit Committee. Mr. Nuti previously served as a director of Sprint Nextel Corporation. He is also a member of the Georgia Institute of Technology advisory board and a trustee of Long Island University. Mr. Nuti became a director of NCR on August 7, 2005. 

Michael B. Bayer joined NCR as Senior Vice President and President, Retail Solutions Division in July 2014. Prior to joining NCR, Mr. Bayer has held leadership roles at companies such as Motorola, Symbol Technologies and Cisco Systems, and most recently as President of Global Growth Markets for Avaya, a global provider of business communications, and collaboration systems. Prior to this, Mr. Bayer served as Avaya's EMEA President, where he led the region's sales and operations and worked with customers to deliver Unified Communications, IP Telephony and Contact Center solutions across EMEA. Mr. Bayer holds a master's degree in electronics and telecommunications from Fachhochschule Wiirzburg&#173;Schweinfurt in Germany. 

Robert P. Fishman became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 2010. Prior to assuming this position, he was Interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2009 to March 2010. Prior to that position, he was Vice President and Corporate Controller from January 2007 to October 2009. From September 2005 to January 2007, Mr. Fishman was Assistant Controller and from January 2005 to September 2005, he was Director, Corporate Planning. Mr. Fishman joined NCR in 1993. 

Edward R. Gallagher was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of NCR in October 2015, having served as Acting General Counsel since October 2014. His prior position with NCR was Law Vice President, Litigation &#38; Employment Law, commencing in 2003; he has also served in other positions within the NCR Law Department, including Chief Counsel of the former Systemedia Division. Mr. Gallagher joined NCR in 1992. Prior to that, Mr. Gallagher was an attorney in private practice with McCutchen Doyle Brown &#38; Enersen in San Francisco and Palmer &#38; Dodge in Boston. Mr. Gallagher holds a law degree from Yale Law School, as well as a master&#8217;s degree from Yale University in political science and international relations. He has an undergraduate degree from the University of South Dakota. 

Andrew S. Heyman joined NCR as part of the Radiant Systems, Inc. (Radiant) acquisition in August 2011, when he assumed the position of Senior Vice President and General Manager, Hospitality. Mr. Heyman served in that role until January 2013, when he became Senior Vice President and President, Financial Services. Mr. Heyman previously held a variety of key leadership positions at Radiant, including chief operating officer and president of the hospitality division across fifteen years with Radiant. Mr. Heyman served as a senior manager with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting) from 1987 to December 1995. Mr. Heyman holds an M.S. degree in computer information systems from Georgia State University and a B.B.A. in finance from the University of Georgia. 

Andrea L. Ledford became Senior Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Human Resources Officer in November 2013. Previously, Ms. Ledford was Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, from June 2012 to November 2013, Senior Vice President, Human Resources, from June 2007 to June 2012, and Interim Senior Vice President, Human Resources from February 2007 to June 2007. Prior to assuming this position, she was Vice President, Human Resources, Asia/Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa, from February 2006 to February 2007. Before joining NCR in February 2006, Ms. Ledford was EMEA Leader, Human Resources, at Symbol Technologies, Inc. from 2002 to February 2006 and held a variety of leadership roles at Cisco Systems, Inc. in EMEA, Asia/Pacific and Latin America. 

Frederick ("Rick") Marquardt is NCR&#8217;s Executive Vice President, Services, Enterprise Quality and T&#38;T, a role he assumed in January 2016. From April 2014 to January 2016, Mr. Marquardt served as Executive Vice President, Services, Hardware Solutions and Enterprise Quality. Mr. Marquardt joined NCR in 2006, and has held a variety of roles at the company including Senior Vice President of Integrated Supply Chain from September 2013 to April 2014, Senior Vice President of Global Operations, Vice President of Manufacturing for NCR, and Vice President of Global Operations for NCR's Financial Industry Business Unit (now the Financial Services division). Prior to joining NCR, Mr. Marquardt worked for Motorola Corporation, where he held several leadership positions in operations and manufacturing. 

Available Information 

NCR makes available through its website at http://investor.ncr.com, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports and schedules, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The SEC website (www.sec.gov) contains the reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file or furnish electronically with the SEC. Also, the public may read and copy any materials that NCR files or furnishes with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. NCR will furnish, without charge to a security holder upon written request, the Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2016 &#32;Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2016 &#32;Proxy Statement), portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. NCR also will furnish its Code of Conduct at no cost and any other exhibit at cost. Document requests are available by calling or writing to: 

NCR&#8212;Investor Relations 

3097 Satellite Boulevard 

Duluth, GA 30096 

Phone: 800-255-5627 

E-Mail: investor.relations@ncr.com 

Website: http://investor.ncr.com 

NCR's website, www.ncr.com, contains a significant amount of information about NCR, including financial and other information for investors. NCR encourages investors to visit its website regularly, as information may be updated and new information may be posted at any time. The contents of NCR's website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed &#8220;filed&#8221; under the Exchange Act. 

