 Item 1. Description of Business 

The business of the Company is primarily that of a holding company with subsidiaries. The Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiary, National Five Holding Ltd, incorporated in British Columbia, Canada, holds a 60 percent share interest in Northstar Sealand Enterprises Ltd (&#147;NSEL&#148;). NSEL has been incorporated to pursue a manufacturing, marketing, distribution and maintenance opportunity in the aviation industry and is in negotiations with a major aviation company.

Corporate History 

The Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiary, Northstar Network Ltd. ( NNL), carried out defense, aerospace and homeland security contract manufacturing. NNL has been discontinued due to insufficient working capital, quality issues with suppliers and design changes made by the customer. The lack of capital funding was predominantly responsible for the shutdown of operations. 

Our second subsidiary Northstar Technical Inc. , ( NTI ), has been involved in underwater sonar sensors primarily related to the fishing industry. NTI has been discontinued due to a downward trend in the commercial fishing industry. The time taken for new technology developments using underwater communicating techniques was long. The timeframe for market introduction was also lengthy. Consequently in a fast changing industry, the products did not receive strong market acceptance.

The Company did not consummate the signing of a Letter of Intent to acquire a development stage company specializing in advanced sonar technologies and systems.

Homeland Security and Military Defense: 

The Company expects that design and manufacture of homeland security and anti-terrorism systems will grow over the next five years as the United States Department of Homeland Security and the United States Navy ramp up efforts to protect ports, on shore high value assets and ships. 

Research and Development: 

The Company did not expend any efforts on research and development during the year.

CONTRACT MANUFACTURING 

The Company has experience in the aerospace and contract manufacturing industries and has assembled electronic and mechanical systems under contract to the defense and aerospace industry (called &#145;build to print&#146;). Products are built according to designs provided by our customers for whom the Company provides production engineering, contract manufacturing of components, sourcing and procurement of replacement parts, assembly into full systems, testing and shipping.

The Company has attended defense and aerospace exhibitions in the United States and Canada and has participated in missions to meet prime contractors involved in major defense contracts. The Company has attracted a major customer prospect in this area for which bids are actively being submitted and negotiations are underway.

Competition 

We are not aware, at this time, of any companies in particular that are direct competitors. However, we expect that, dependent upon the economic and political factors influencing major defense contractors, there will indeed be strong competition for future contracts. 

Marketing 

The benefits of our marketing efforts are the contacts made through networking in the industry and attendance at trade shows, conferences and special missions sponsored by the Department of Defense and Department of Business Development/Trade. We continue to attend defense and aerospace exhibitions in Canada and the United States. 

Technology Protection 

The Company currently owns no proprietary technology requiring protection with respect to its activities.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

The Company has depended to a great extent on a single customer. We are trying to reduce our dependency on one or two customers by contacting other prime contractors about opportunities with them. We expect this activity will result in our developing different business in the future. 

Need for Government Approvals 

There are no required government approvals applicable to our current activities, except any required as part of a contract. In that event, the requirement would be passed down from the prime contractor as a part of the statement of work

Effect of Existing or Probable Government Regulations 

Commerce between the United States and Canada in the defense and aerospace industry is governed by some general rules and regulations. These typically require a prime contractor to obtain certain government clearances before providing potentially sensitive information. These clearances have not caused any problems for our discontinued activities and we do not anticipate any in the foreseeable future.

Research and Development Expenditures 

The Company did not incur expenditures in fiscal 2014 on research and development activities.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

The Company incurred no costs or adverse effects in its compliance with any environmental laws.

SYSTEM INTEGRATION

The Company has experience in carrying out contracts that require several subcontractors to perform specialized tasks. The ability to integrate the work of several components to create one complete system will be Northstar&#146;s main area of business - system integration.

The Company lost its contracts for wing assemblies and other machine parts due to a lack of funding and is pursuing new contracts in aeronautics. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2014 the Company had no employees. Administration and engineering services are provided by subcontractors as needed.

PUBLIC INFORMATION 

The Company electronically files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) all its reports, including but not limited to its annual and quarterly reports. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports and other information regarding issuers that do file electronically. The Company maintains a web site address at www.northstarelectronics.com

