 Item 1. Description of Business 

The business of the Company is primarily that of a holding company with subsidiaries. The Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiary, National Five Holding Ltd, incorporated in British Columbia, Canada, holds a 60 percent share interest in Northstar Sealand Enterprises Ltd (&#147;NSEL&#148;). NSEL has been incorporated to pursue a manufacturing, marketing, sales and maintenance opportunity in the aviation industry and is in negotiations with a major aviation company.

Corporate History 

The Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiary, Northstar Network Ltd., ( NNL), had carried out defense, aerospace and homeland security contract manufacturing. NNL has been discontinued due to insufficient working capital, quality issues with suppliers and design changes made by the customer. The lack of capital funding was predominantly responsible for the shutdown of operations. 

Our second subsidiary Northstar Technical Inc. , ( NTI ), had been involved in underwater sonar sensors primarily related to the fishing industry. NTI has been discontinued due to a downward trend in the commercial fishing industry. The time taken for new technology developments using underwater communicating techniques was long. The timeframe for market introduction was also lengthy. Consequently in a fast changing industry, the products did not receive sufficiently strong market acceptance.

The Company did not consummate the signing of a Letter of Intent to acquire a development stage company specializing in advanced sonar technologies and systems.

Homeland Security and Military Defense: 

The Company had expected that design and manufacture of homeland security and anti-terrorism systems would have grown rapidly as the United States Department of Homeland Security and the United States Navy had planned to ramp up efforts to protect ports, other onshore high value assets and ships. However, the timing of their actions taken were too late for the Company to adequately participate.

Research and Development: 

The Company did not expend any efforts on research and development during the year.

DESIGN ENGINEERING AND CONTRACT MANUFACTURING

The Company has experience in contract manufacturing and has produced electronic and mechanical systems under contract to defense and aerospace companies.. Products were built according to designs provided by our customers for whom the Company provided production engineering, contract manufacturing of components, sourcing and procurement of parts, assembly of full systems, testing and shipping.

The Company&#146;s former customers included Lockheed Martin MS2, Lockheed Martin Canada, Lockheed Martin Aeronautics and L-3.

NEW DIRECTION

We are now moving in a new direction whereby we intend to build our own systems in the civilian aviation sector. We believe that this affords improved control over the business outcomes compared to the contract manufacturing business.

The Company is working on plans to obtain rights to a single engine airplane with industrial applications. If successful, we intend to market the airplane internationally and provide Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) services in close proximity to customers. The Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiary, National Five Holding Ltd, is a 60% shareholder of Northstar Sealand Enterprises Ltd (NSEL). NSEL, has experience in working on certified commercial aircraft and government military contracts, and has access to an established aircraft parts manufacturing facility.

Marketing 

NSEL has started market assessments in several large international markets where there appears to be volume sales potential for the single engine airplane. They have also begun to explore potential marketing partnerships with other aviation companies. Projections made by NSEL show a potential growth in demand for suitable single engine aircraft, subject to economic factors. Preliminary plans have been started on methods to achieve market presence, including direct sales, magazine ads, web site, and participation in trade shows. 

Technology Protection 

The Company currently owns no proprietary technology requiring protection with respect to its activities. It intends to acquire proprietary technology and, if successful, intends to put appropriate protection measures in place.

Need for Government Approvals 

If the Company is successful in acquiring the rights to the aforementioned single engine airplane, there will be required government approvals applicable to our expected future activities. 

The approvals would likely be for an in country Type Certificate and other certificates, as required, in other countries where the airplane would be marketed.

Effect of Existing or Probable Government Regulations 

If successful with the acquisition of the rights to the single engine airplane, the Company intends to abide by the applicable regulations in each country where it intends to carry out marketing and sales. The costs of meeting the regulatory requirements can be high and the Company will do its best efforts to procure the funds required.

Research and Development Expenditures 

The Company did not incur expenditures in fiscal 2015 on research and development activities.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

The Company incurred no costs or adverse effects in its compliance with any environmental laws.

PRODUCTION

The Company has experience in carrying out work requiring multiple subcontractors to perform specialized tasks. The ability to integrate the work of multiple components to create a complete system will be NSEL&#146;s main area of business - system integration.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2015 the Company has a team of highly experienced consultants who provide administration, marketing and engineering services under contract.

PUBLIC INFORMATION

The Company electronically files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) all its reports, including but not limited to its annual and quarterly reports. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports and other information regarding issuers that do file electronically. The Company maintains a web site address at www.northstarelectronics.com

