 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

N I S OURCE &#32;I NC . 

NiSource Inc. (the "Company") is an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies serving approximately 3.9 million customers in seven states. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999. 

NiSource is one of the nation&#8217;s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number of customers. NiSource&#8217;s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and NIPSCO, a gas and electric company. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of these rate-regulated businesses. 

On July 1, 2015, NiSource completed the Separation of CPG from NiSource. CPG's operations consisted of all of NiSource's Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment prior to the Separation. Following the Separation, NiSource retained no ownership interest in CPG. 

The results of operations and cash flows for the former Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of the former Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment were reclassified as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations for all prior periods. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

NiSource&#8217;s reportable segments are: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 22, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information for each segment. 

Gas Distribution Operations 

NiSource&#8217;s natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.4 million customers in seven states and operate approximately 59,000 miles of pipeline. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., NiSource owns six distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.6 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, Maryland and Massachusetts. Additionally, NiSource also distributes natural gas to approximately 812,000 customers in northern Indiana through its wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO. 

Electric Operations 

NiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 463,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages in wholesale and transmission transactions. NIPSCO owns and operates three coal-fired electric generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of 2,540 mw. NIPSCO also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with net capability of 535 mw, three gas-fired generating units located at NIPSCO&#8217;s coal-fired electric generating stations with a net capability of 196 mw and two hydroelectric generating plants with a net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net capability of 3,281 mw. NIPSCO&#8217;s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts, consists of 2,805 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities. During the year ended December 31, 2015, NIPSCO generated 67.4% and purchased 32.6% of its electric requirements. 

NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, the MISO is responsible for managing energy markets, transmission constraints and the day-ahead, real-time, FTR and ancillary markets. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to the MISO and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff. 

Divestiture of Non-Core Assets 

In recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource&#8217;s strategy. Lake Erie Land Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, is pursuing the sale of the real estate assets it owns. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting its low-income housing investments. NiSource sold the service plan and leasing business lines of its retail services business in January 2013. NiSource also sold the commercial and industrial natural gas portfolio of its unregulated natural gas marketing business in September 2013. 

Business Strategy 

NiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with most of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. NiSource&#8217;s utilities continue to move forward on core infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across all seven states in which it operates. 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

N I S OURCE &#32;I NC . 

NiSource&#8217;s goal is to develop strategies that benefit all stakeholders as it addresses changing customer conservation patterns, develops more contemporary pricing structures, and embarks on long-term investment programs. These strategies will help improve reliability and safety, enhance customer services and reduce emissions while generating sustainable returns. 

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment 

The regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource&#8217;s operations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on NiSource&#8217;s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this environment, including providing gas customers with increased choices for products and services. 

Natural Gas Competition . Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers and marketers can purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or &#8220;unbundling&#8221; of the transportation and other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. NiSource&#8217;s Gas Distribution Operations&#8217; subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations&#8217; subsidiaries for transportation services. 

Electric Competition . Indiana electric utilities generally have exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier. NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources. 

&#160; 

Financing Subsidiary 

NiSource Finance is a 100% owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries. NiSource Finance was incorporated in March 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana. Prior to 2000, the function of NiSource Finance was performed by Capital Markets. NiSource Finance obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource. 

Seasonality 

A significant portion of NiSource's operations is subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, net revenues from gas sales are more significant, and during the cooling season, which is primarily June through September, net revenues from electric sales are more significant, than in other months. 

Other Relevant Business Information 

NiSource&#8217;s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues. 

As of December 31, 2015, NiSource had 7,596 employees of whom 3,157 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. &#32; 

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21. 

NiSource electronically files various reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as well as our proxy statements for our annual meetings of stockholders. The public may read and copy any materials that NiSource files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . NiSource makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site at &#32;http://www.nisource.com . 

