 ITEM 1. Business 

General 

&#160; 

NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1967 under the laws of the State of Oregon. As used in this report, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;NIKE,&#8221; and the &#8220;Company&#8221; refer to NIKE, Inc. and its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, collectively, unless the context indicates otherwise. Our NIKE e-commerce website is located at www.nike.com. &#32;On our NIKE corporate website, located at news.nike.com, &#32;we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;): our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our definitive Proxy Statements are also posted on our corporate website. All such filings on our corporate website are available free of charge. Copies of these filings may also be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains current, quarterly and annual reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Also available on our corporate website are the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics; copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to NIKE Investor Relations, One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453. 

Our principal business activity is the design, development and worldwide marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail stores and internet websites (which we refer to collectively as our &#8220;Direct to Consumer&#8221; or &#8220;DTC&#8221; operations), and through a mix of independent distributors and licensees throughout the world. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by independent contractors. Nearly all footwear and apparel products are produced outside the United States, while equipment products are produced both in the United States and abroad. 

Products 

&#160; 

We focus our NIKE Brand product offerings in nine key categories: Running, NIKE Basketball, the Jordan Brand, Football (Soccer), Men&#8217;s Training, Women&#8217;s Training, Action Sports, Sportswear (our sports-inspired lifestyle products) and Golf. Men's Training includes our baseball and American football product offerings. We also market products designed for kids, as well as for other athletic and recreational uses such as cricket, lacrosse, tennis, volleyball, wrestling, walking and outdoor activities. 

NIKE&#8217;s athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or leisure purposes. We place considerable emphasis on innovation and high-quality construction in our products. Sportswear, Running, the Jordan Brand and Football (Soccer) are currently our top-selling footwear categories and we expect them to continue to lead in footwear sales. 

We also sell sports apparel covering the above-mentioned categories, which feature the same trademarks and are sold predominantly through the same marketing and distribution channels as athletic footwear. Our sports apparel, similar to our athletic footwear products, is designed primarily for athletic use and exemplifies our commitment to innovation and high-quality construction. Sportswear, Men's Training, Running, Football (Soccer) and Women's Training are currently our top-selling apparel categories, and we expect them to continue to lead in apparel sales. We often market footwear, apparel and accessories in &#8220;collections&#8221; of similar use or by category. We also market apparel with licensed college and professional team and league logos. 

We sell a line of performance equipment and accessories under the NIKE Brand name, including bags, socks, sport balls, eyewear, timepieces, digital devices, bats, gloves, protective equipment, golf clubs and other equipment designed for sports activities. We also sell small amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE IHM, Inc. 

Our Jordan Brand designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories predominantly focused on basketball using the Jumpman trademark. Sales and operating results for the Jordan Brand are reported as a separate category and within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments, respectively. 

One of our wholly-owned subsidiary brands, Hurley, headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, designs and distributes a line of action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and accessories under the Hurley trademark. Sales and operating results for Hurley are included within the NIKE Brand Action Sports category and within the NIKE Brand's North America geographic operating segment, respectively. 

Another of our wholly-owned subsidiary brands, Converse, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, designs, distributes and licenses casual sneakers, apparel and accessories under the Converse, Chuck Taylor, All Star, One Star, Star Chevron and Jack Purcell trademarks. Operating results of the Converse brand are reported on a stand-alone basis. 

In addition to the products we sell to our wholesale customers and directly to consumers through our DTC operations, we have also entered into license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture and sell, using NIKE-owned trademarks, certain apparel, digital devices and applications and other equipment designed for sports activities. 

Sales and Marketing 

&#160; 

Financial information about geographic and segment operations appears in Note 17 &#8212; Operating Segments and Related Information &#32;of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment, as well as other macroeconomic, operating and logistics-related factors. 

Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. We must, therefore, respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, styles and categories and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing. Failure to respond in a timely and adequate manner could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. This is a continuing risk. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

We report our NIKE Brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. Each NIKE Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. Our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe, Central &#38; Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan and Emerging Markets. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. 

Converse is also a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. Converse Direct to Consumer operations, including e-commerce, are reported within the Converse operating segment results. 

United States Market 

For fiscal 2016 , NIKE Brand and Converse sales in the United States accounted for approximately 47% &#32;of total revenues, compared to 46% &#32;for both fiscal 2015 &#32;and fiscal 2014 . We sell our NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. In the United States, we utilize NIKE sales offices to solicit sales as well as independent sales representatives to sell specialty products for golf and skateboarding. During fiscal 2016 , our three largest customers accounted for approximately 25% &#32;of sales in the United States. 

We make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. In fiscal 2016 , 84% &#32;of our U.S. wholesale footwear shipments were made under the futures program, compared to 87% &#32;in fiscal 2015 &#32;and 86% &#32;in fiscal 2014 . In fiscal 2016 , 66% &#32;of our U.S. wholesale apparel shipments were made under the futures program, compared to 67% &#32;in fiscal 2015 &#32;and 71% &#32;in fiscal 2014 . 

Our Direct to Consumer operations sell NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to consumers through our e-commerce website, www.nike.com . In addition, our Direct to Consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the United States: 

U.S. Retail Stores 

Number 

NIKE Brand factory stores 

NIKE Brand in-line stores, including employee-only stores 

Converse stores (including factory stores) 

Hurley stores (including factory and employee stores) 

TOTAL 

In the United States, NIKE has five significant distribution centers located in Memphis, Tennessee, two of which are owned and three are leased. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment products are also shipped from our leased Foothill Ranch, California distribution center. Converse and Hurley products are shipped primarily from leased facilities in Ontario, California. Smaller leased distribution facilities are located in various parts of the United States. 

International Markets 

For fiscal 2016 , non-U.S. NIKE Brand and Converse sales accounted for 53% &#32;of total revenues, compared to 54% &#32;for both fiscal 2015 &#32;and fiscal 2014 . We sell our products to retail accounts, through our own Direct to Consumer operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. We sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 42 &#32;distribution centers outside of the United States. In many countries and regions, including Canada, Asia, some Latin American countries and Europe, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures ordering program described above. During fiscal 2016 , NIKE&#8217;s three largest customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 13% &#32;of total non-U.S. sales. 

In addition to NIKE and Converse owned e-commerce websites in over 40 countries, our Direct to Consumer business operates the following number of retail stores outside the United States: 

Non-U.S. Retail Stores 

Number 

NIKE Brand factory stores 

NIKE Brand in-line stores, including employee-only stores 

Converse stores (including factory stores) 

TOTAL 

2 

International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam. 

Significant Customer 

No &#32;customer accounted for 10% &#32;or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2016 . 

Orders 

Worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from June through November 2016, were $14.9 billion compared with $13.8 billion for the same period last year. NIKE Brand reported futures include (1) orders from external wholesale customers and (2) internal orders from our DTC in-line stores and e-commerce operations which are reflected at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale customers. The U.S. Dollar futures orders amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the actual currency exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain of these futures orders may fall outside of the scheduled time period noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales of at-once and closeout NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, all sales of NIKE Brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our Direct to Consumer in-line stores and e-commerce operations, and sales from our Converse, Hurley and NIKE Golf businesses. 

Product Research, Design and Development 

We believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. Technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort while reducing waste. 

In addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. Employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. 

As we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. Using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. The proliferation of NIKE Air, Lunar, Zoom, Free, Flywire, Dri-Fit, Flyknit, Flyweave and NIKE+ technologies through Running, NIKE Basketball, the Jordan Brand, Football (Soccer), Men's Training, Women's Training and Sportswear, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. 

Manufacturing 

We are supplied by approximately 142 &#32;footwear factories located in 15 &#32;countries. The largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 7% &#32;of total fiscal 2016 &#32;NIKE Brand footwear production. Virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers who often operate multiple factories. In fiscal 2016 , contract factories in Vietnam, China and Indonesia manufactured approximately 44%, 29% and 21% of total NIKE Brand footwear, respectively. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent factories in Argentina, India, Brazil and Mexico to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. In fiscal 2016 , five &#32;footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% &#32;of NIKE Brand footwear production. 

We are supplied by approximately 394 &#32;apparel factories located in 39 &#32;countries. The largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 12% &#32;of total fiscal 2016 &#32;NIKE Brand apparel production. Virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. In fiscal 2016 , contract factories in China, Vietnam and Indonesia produced approximately 26%, 23% and 9% of total NIKE Brand apparel, respectively. In fiscal 2016 , one &#32;apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in aggregate accounted for approximately 39% &#32;of NIKE Brand apparel production. 

The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make NIKE Air-Sole cushioning components. During fiscal 2016 , NIKE IHM, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, Inc., with facilities near Beaverton, Oregon and in St. Charles, Missouri, as well as independent contractors in China and Vietnam, were our largest suppliers of the Air-Sole cushioning components used in footwear. The principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. NIKE&#8217;s independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. 

Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of America (&#8220;Sojitz America&#8221;), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. During fiscal 2016 , Sojitz America provided financing and purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in certain NIKE markets including Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, Canada, India, South Africa and Thailand, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Approximately 6% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America&#8217;s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. Such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. However, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our current agreements with Sojitz America expire on May 31, 2018 and contain a provision allowing us to extend the agreements to May 31, 2019. 

International Operations and Trade 

Our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. 

In recent years, uncertain global and regional economic conditions have affected international trade and caused a rise in protectionist actions around the world. These trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. Companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. Notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for NIKE as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. 

We monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. We are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. We are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. Moreover, with respect to trade restrictions targeting China, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules, and (iii) reflects and considers China's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. 

Where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. If events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. 

NIKE advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), if ultimately ratified, has the potential to reduce or eliminate high rates of customs duties for imports into the United States of NIKE products sourced from TPP countries (primarily footwear and apparel from Vietnam and apparel from Malaysia). Similarly, the European Union has concluded a free trade agreement with Vietnam that, if approved, could lead to duty reduction or elimination for footwear and apparel. 

Competition 

The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, ASICS, Li Ning, lululemon athletica, Puma, V.F. Corporation and Under Armour, among others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. 

NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment in the world. Important aspects of competition in this industry are: 

&#8226; 

Product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. 

&#8226; 

Consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. 

&#8226; 

Effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. 

We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. 

Trademarks and Patents 

We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the Company and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE and Swoosh Design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. For certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. 

We have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. When appropriate, we have sought registrations for this content. 

We own patents and have a patent license, facilitating our use of &#8220;Air&#8221; technologies. 

We also file and maintain many U.S. and foreign utility patents, as well as many U.S. and foreign design patents protecting components, manufacturing techniques, features and industrial design used in various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment, digital devices and golf products. These patents expire at various times; patents issued for original applications filed this calendar year in the United States may last until 2031 for design patents and until 2036 for utility patents. 

We believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. However, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications for the United States and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. We also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement. 

Employees 

As of May 31, 2016 , we had approximately 70,700 &#32;employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. Management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Emerging Markets geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. Also, in some countries outside of the United States, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain Company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. In certain European countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. NIKE has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The executive officers of NIKE, Inc. as of July 15, 2016 &#32;are as follows: 

Mark G. Parker, &#32;Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer &#8212; Mr. Parker, 60, was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006 and named Chairman of the Board in June 2016. He has been employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of product development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998 and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001. 

Chris L. Abston, Vice President and Corporate Controller &#8212; Mr. Abston, 53, joined NIKE in 2015 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he served as Vice President, Global Controls and Governance since February 2015. Prior to that he was Vice President and Controller of Walmart International from February 2013 to January 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and Vice President and Assistant Controller of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. from May 2011 to January 2013. Before joining Wal-Mart, Mr. Abston spent 25 years in public accounting with Ernst &#38; Young LLP, most recently leading its Strategic Growth Markets practice as a Partner in the Dallas office. 

David J. Ayre, &#32;Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources &#8212; Mr. Ayre, 56, joined NIKE as Vice President, Global Human Resources in 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of senior human resource positions with PepsiCo, Inc. since 1990, most recently as head of Talent and Performance Rewards. 

Andrew Campion, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer &#8212; Mr. Campion, 44, joined NIKE in 2007 as Vice President of Global Planning and Development, leading strategic and financial planning. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the NIKE Brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the Company's flagship brand. In 2014, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy, Finance and Investor Relations in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer of NIKE Brand. Mr. Campion assumed the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2015. Prior to joining NIKE, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at The Walt Disney Company from 1996 to 2007. 

Trevor A. Edwards, &#32;President, NIKE Brand &#8212; Mr. Edwards, 53, joined NIKE in 1992. He was appointed Marketing Manager, Strategic Accounts for Foot Locker in 1993, Director of Marketing for the Americas in 1995, Director of Marketing for Europe in 1997, Vice President, Marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 1999 and Vice President, U.S. Brand Marketing in 2000. Mr. Edwards was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Brand Management in 2002, Vice President, Global Brand and Category Management in 2006 and President, NIKE Brand in 2013. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Edwards was with the Colgate-Palmolive Company. 

Jeanne P. Jackson, President &#38; Strategic Advisor &#8212; Ms. Jackson, 64, joined NIKE in 2009. She was appointed President &#38; Strategic Advisor in June 2016. She was appointed President, Product and Merchandising in 2013 and President, Direct to Consumer in 2009. Ms. Jackson also served as a member of the NIKE, Inc. Board of Directors from 2001 through 2009. She founded and served as Chief Executive Officer of MSP Capital, a private investment company, from 2002 to 2009. Ms. Jackson was Chief Executive Officer of Walmart.com from March 2000 to January 2002. She was with Gap, Inc., as President and Chief Executive Officer of Banana Republic from 1995 to 2000, also serving as Chief Executive Officer of Gap, Inc. Direct from 1998 to 2000. Since 1978, she has held various retail management positions with Victoria&#8217;s Secret, The Walt Disney Company, Saks Fifth Avenue and Federated Department Stores. 

Hilary K. Krane, &#32;Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel &#8212; Ms. Krane, 52, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. In 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Affairs. Ms. Krane was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss &#38; Co. from 2006 to 2010. From 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 

John F. Slusher, &#32;Executive Vice President, Global Sports Marketing &#8212; Mr. Slusher, 47, has been employed by NIKE since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for the Asia Pacific and Americas in 2006, divisional Vice President of Asia Pacific &#38; Americas Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Slusher was an attorney at the law firm of O&#8217;Melveny &#38; Myers from 1995 to 1998. 

Michael Spillane, President, Product and Merchandising &#8212; Mr. Spillane, 56, joined NIKE in 2007. He was appointed President, Product and Merchandising in 2016. He has served the Company in various roles including Vice President and General Manager of Greater China, Chief Executive Officer of Umbro and Converse and most recently as Vice President and General Manager of Footwear. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Spillane held leadership roles at Polartec, Maiden Mills Industries, Inc. and Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, LLC. 

Eric D. Sprunk, &#32;Chief Operating Officer &#8212; Mr. Sprunk, 52, joined NIKE in 1993. He was appointed Finance Director and General Manager of the Americas in 1994, Finance Director for NIKE Europe in 1995, Regional General Manager of NIKE Europe Footwear in 1998 and Vice President &#38; General Manager of the Americas in 2000. Mr. Sprunk was appointed Vice President of Global Footwear in 2001, Vice President of Merchandising and Product in 2009 and Chief Operating Officer in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Sprunk was a certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. 

