 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company discovering and developing targeted therapeutics in disease areas of inflammation and immuno-oncology. Our primary focus is anti-inflammatory product candidates targeting the SH2-containing inositol-5&#146;-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1) enzyme, which is a key regulator of an important cellular signaling pathway in immune cells, known as the PI3K pathway. Our product candidate, AQX-1125, is a small molecule activator of SHIP1 suitable for oral, once daily dosing. We are currently developing AQX-1125 as a treatment in interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS), a chronic inflammatory disease of the bladder. For AQX-1125, we retain full worldwide rights and hold patents with terms through 2024 in Europe and 2028 in the United States with the possibility of further patent term extension avenues available to us. 

IC/BPS is a chronic inflammatory bladder disease characterized by pelvic pain and increased urinary urgency and/or frequency. For many sufferers, these symptoms are severe and adversely affect all major aspects of their lives, including overall physical and emotional health, employment, social and intimate relationships, and leisure activities. While the cause of the disease remains largely unknown, erosion of the bladder lining is thought to be a significant contributor. IC/BPS is estimated to affect between 5 and 12 million people in the United States although the reported diagnostic rate is lower. IC/BPS is diagnosed more frequently in women but epidemiologic estimates suggest men may be equally affected. Most IC/BPS patients continue to suffer this debilitating condition, despite treatment with existing therapies, many unapproved for this indication, as these treatments have been reported to be of limited benefit. We believe new and innovative therapies that target the underlying disease in order to reduce the chronic pain and urinary symptoms are needed. 

In 2015, we completed and reported results from our Leadership trial, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 clinical trial investigating the ability of 200 mg oral, once daily AQX-1125 to reduce pain and urinary symptoms in female patients with IC/BPS. The primary endpoint was to measure the difference in the change from baseline in the mean daily bladder pain score based on an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) at six weeks recorded by electronic diary (e-diary). Results demonstrated a positive trend in the primary endpoint and statistically significant changes on secondary endpoints. A total of 69 subjects were enrolled. We intend to proceed with further development of AQX-1125 in IC/BPS, including finalizing pivotal trial designs to 

&#160;

support product registration in consultation with the appropriate regulatory authorities. Subject to input by the FDA and other regulatory authorities we anticipate conducting two Phase 3 clinical trials of AQX-1125 in IC/BPS, with the first trial commencing in 2016, and designed as a three-arm, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled Phase 3 clinical trial, with 12 weeks dosing followed by an open label extension, to assess the efficacy and safety of AQX-1125 in both female and male IC/BPS patients. Patients will be randomized to receive one of two potential doses of AQX-1125 or placebo. The design and execution of the second Phase 3 trial will be informed, in part, by the first trial upon receipt of top-line results once every patient has received 12 weeks of treatment. 

AQX-1125 is a SHIP1 activator that has demonstrated preliminary safety, broad anti-inflammatory potential and favorable drug properties in multiple preclinical studies. We have also completed seven clinical trials, exposing over 380 subjects to once daily oral administration of AQX-1125. These trials have demonstrated a good tolerability profile, with over 200 subjects receiving AQX-1125 in two Phase 2 trials for periods of 12 weeks. We believe AQX-1125 is the only SHIP1 activator currently in clinical trials and that no SHIP1 activator has yet received marketing approval as a treatment for disease in humans. Our longer-term strategy is to broaden our development activities for AQX-1125 and to advance next generation SHIP1 activators for the treatment of additional inflammatory diseases and cancer. 

We use a proprietary screening approach to discover new drug candidates that selectively target SHIP1 to modulate activated immune cells while minimizing their toxicity to normal cells. This approach has provided us with an extensive chemical library and several candidate lead compounds that target SHIP1. These compounds have both similar and distinct properties from AQX-1125. Our intellectual property covers SHIP1 as a target, the C2 binding domain for screening and the composition of matter for our compounds. 

Recent Developments 

In January 2016, we announced the receipt of official minutes from the December 8, 2015 meeting with the Division of Bone, Reproductive and Urologic Products of the FDA and provided an update on plans for development of AQX-1125 for the treatment of patients with IC/BPS. Discussed at the meeting were guidance and recommendations regarding proposed pivotal trial designs with AQX-1125 for IC/BPS, as well as additional supportive clinical, preclinical and manufacturing activities to inform the design of those trials and that could potentially be required for registration. 

In January 2016, we also announced we had completed a clinical trial demonstrating bioequivalence between AQX-1125 capsules and tablets. All future clinical development will utilize AQX-1125 tablets. 

In November 2015, we announced results from the Phase 2 Kinship trial with AQX-1125 in patients with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis that failed to demonstrate efficacy compared to placebo. Therefore, at this time, we are no longer pursuing atopic dermatitis as a potential disease indication for treatment with AQX-1125. 

In September 2015, we completed a public offering of 6,325,000 shares of common stock at a price to the public of $15.50 per share for gross proceeds from the offering of $98.0 million before underwriting commissions and expenses of approximately $6.2 million. 

In August 2015, we announced results from secondary endpoints from the Phase 2 Leadership clinical trial with AQX-1125 in patients with IC/BPS. These results supported the evidence of pain reduction observed in the primary endpoint of average daily pain with statistically significant improvements in maximum daily pain as well as statistically significant improvements on several scales measuring combined pain and urinary symptoms. 

In July 2015, we announced results from the Phase 2 Flagship trial with AQX-1125 in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with frequent exacerbations. The results failed to demonstrate efficacy compared to placebo. Therefore, at this time, we are no longer pursuing COPD as a potential disease indication for treatment with AQX-1125. 

&#160;

In June 2015, we announced top-line results from the Phase 2 Leadership randomized clinical trial investigating the therapeutic potential of AQX-1125 in treating pain in IC/BPS that missed statistical significance (p = 0.06), but did demonstrate a positive trend on the primary endpoint of a reduction in average daily pain with AQX-1125 compared to placebo. 

SHIP1 and the PI3K Pathway 

Role and Regulation of the PI3K Pathway 

The PI3K pathway is a cellular signaling pathway that has been linked to a diverse group of cellular functions and biological processes such as cell activation and migration, which are related to inflammation, and cell growth, proliferation and survival, which are related to cancer. As a result, the PI3K pathway is heavily researched by the academic community as well as by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the areas of immune disorders and oncology. 

In the PI3K pathway, the key messenger molecule is phosphatidylinositiol-3,4,5-trisphosphate, or PIP3, which initiates the signaling pathway. In cells derived from bone marrow tissues (e.g. immune cells), key enzymes that control levels of PIP3 are the PI3 kinase, or PI3K, and the phosphatases, phosphatase and tensin homolog, or PTEN, and SH2-containing inositol-5&#146;-phosphatase 1, or SHIP1. PI3K generates PIP3, thus initiating the signaling pathway. This signaling is reduced by degradation of PIP3 by PTEN and SHIP1. PTEN is generally considered to be constantly working in the pathway to control basal activity, whereas SHIP1 is engaged when the cell is stimulated. In preclinical studies, PTEN has been shown to suppress cancer by controlling cell proliferation, whereas SHIP1, has been demonstrated to control inflammation by reducing cell migration and activation. 

If the PI3K pathway is overactive, immune cells can produce an abundance of pro-inflammatory signaling molecules and migrate to and concentrate in tissues, resulting in excessive or chronic inflammation. SHIP1 is predominantly expressed in cells derived from bone marrow tissues, which are mainly immune cells. Consequently, drugs that activate SHIP1 can reduce the function and migration of immune cells and have an anti-inflammatory effect. 

SHIP1 as a Drug Target 

Inflammation can be reduced by activation of SHIP1, taking advantage of the natural modulation of the PI3K pathway. When activated, SHIP1 redirects signaling in immune cells to reduce their activation and migration, thereby reducing inflammation while still allowing these cells to maintain cell growth and survival. Our scientific founders, based at the University of British Columbia, were the first to discover SHIP1 and show that small molecules could activate it, thereby making it a potential target for a new class of anti-inflammatory drugs. Additionally, other academic scientists have shown that certain immune cell cancers have suppressed levels of SHIP1, making such cancers also potential targets for SHIP1 activators. 

SHIP1 is predominantly present in immune cells. Therefore, SHIP1 activators target immune cells to cause an anti-inflammatory effect while minimizing effects in other tissues. We believe AQX-1125 is the only SHIP1 activator currently in clinical trials and that no SHIP1 activator has yet received marketing approval as a treatment for disease in humans. 

Our approach also targets a unique activation site in SHIP1 called the C2 binding domain. We have demonstrated that targeting the C2 binding domain does not significantly activate or inhibit other enzymes, imparting target selectivity and further limiting potential off-target toxicities. Historically, phosphatases such as SHIP1 have been found to be poor drug targets based upon efforts to develop inhibitors of these enzymes, since the binding sites for inhibitors are similar across the family of phosphatases, resulting in poor selectivity and leading to undesired off-target toxicities. The unique activation site of SHIP1 enables the development of selective activators of this important phosphatase as a drug target. 

&#160;

AQX-1125 

AQX-1125 is a SHIP1 activator that has demonstrated preliminary safety, broad anti-inflammatory potential and favorable drug properties in multiple preclinical studies. We have also completed seven clinical trials, exposing over 380 subjects to once daily oral administration of AQX-1125. Importantly, our Phase 2a and six-week Leadership clinical trial results were consistent with the pharmaceutical properties and anti-inflammatory activities demonstrated in our preclinical studies, where AQX-1125 was administered once daily. We intend to proceed with further development of AQX-1125 in IC/BPS. For AQX-1125, we retain full worldwide rights and hold patents with terms through 2024 in Europe and 2028 in the United States with the possibility of further patent term extension avenues available to us. 

AQX-1125 has Desirable Pharmaceutical Properties 

In addition to demonstrating strong in vitro and in vivo activity, AQX-1125 was also selected as a lead candidate based on its many desirable pharmaceutical properties. It is highly water-soluble and does not require complex formulation for oral administration. AQX-1125 has low plasma protein binding, is not appreciably metabolized and is excreted primarily as parent compound in both urine and feces. In humans, AQX-1125 has shown pharmacokinetic properties suitable for once-a-day oral dosing. In addition, the absorption of the drug candidate is equivalent whether taken with or without food. We have recently completed a clinical trial demonstrating bioequivalence between AQX-1125 capsules and tablets. All future clinical development will utilize AQX-1125 tablets. 

AQX-1125 Safety Profile 

To date, safety data have been obtained from 385 subjects from our seven completed clinical trials who have been exposed to doses of AQX-1125 ranging from 17 mg to 542 mg for up to 12 weeks. The most frequent dose-related adverse events that increased with increasing dose were gastrointestinal events, which were generally mild, intermittent and resolved without treatment or long-term effects. Frequency of gastrointestinal adverse events decreased with lower dose and with reduced fasting time, consistent with the adverse events being associated with irritation of the gastrointestinal lining from the rapid dissolution and absorption of AQX-1125. 

Recently completed Phase 2 trials have demonstrated AQX-1125 to be well tolerated at a dose of 200 mg once daily for 6 or 12 weeks in over 200 patients. In all three completed Phase 2 trials utilizing 200 mg once daily, adverse event rates have been similar to placebo, with the most common being mild to moderate gastrointestinal events. The adverse events noted for AQX-1125 have been consistent across all trials completed to date. 

Interstitial Cystitis/Bladder Pain Syndrome 

IC/BPS is a chronic urinary bladder disease characterized by erosion of the interior bladder lining and chronic inflammation of the bladder wall, pelvic pain and increased urinary urgency and/or frequency. Stress or a change in diet has been known to trigger IC/BPS symptoms. IC/BPS affects men and women of all ages. IC/BPS currently affects an estimated 5-12 million people in the United States and is accepted to be one of the most challenging urological conditions without effective therapy. 

Chronic inflammation within the bladder wall can lead to damage and fibrotic changes in the bladder. There have been several studies linking allergic sensitivity to worsening IC/BPS symptoms. Furthermore, the inflammation leads to the release of mediators that irritate and trigger surrounding nerve tissue and causes radiating pain. For many IC/BPS sufferers, their symptoms of constant pain and urinary frequency are severe and adversely affect all major aspects of their lives, including overall physical and emotional health, employment, social and intimate relationships, and leisure activities. 

The diagnosis of IC/BPS is often challenging and is based on exclusion of other diseases, including bladder cancer, kidney stones, vaginitis, endometriosis, sexually transmitted diseases and prostate infections. Currently, 

&#160;

IC/BPS is more commonly diagnosed in women than men. Sometimes patients have to see a number of doctors and specialists over a period of several years to obtain a correct diagnosis. The reported diagnosis for IC/BPS is significantly lower than the number of people estimated to suffer from IC/BPS. 

IC/BPS Current Therapies 

There is no known cure for IC/BPS, although a number of therapies have been reported to relieve symptoms. The only FDA approved oral therapy is an agent, pentosan polysulfate sodium (PPS) (Elmiron), first approved in 1996, which may help to temporarily restore the bladder lining but can take up to six months before any benefit is noted. Recent placebo controlled studies of PPS however have failed to demonstrate benefit. Other oral therapies include antihistamines, low dose antidepressants to block neurogenic pain and analgesics. Most IC/BPS patients continue to suffer this debilitating condition, despite treatment with existing therapies. 

In addition to oral therapies, direct instillation of drugs into the bladder via catheter (intravesical therapy) has been shown to provide temporary relief of symptoms. Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO; RIMSO-50) is the only drug approved by the FDA for bladder instillation for IC/BPS. It offers anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxant and analgesic effects. DMSO is used alone or in combination with heparin, corticosteroids, bicarbonate and a local anesthetic (lidocaine) for intravesical administration. 

Corticosteroids have also been reported to work via transurethral injection into the bladder wall or instillation into the bladder. Prolonged use of corticosteroids by IC/BPS patients is associated with bladder wall scarring. The American Urological Association guidelines for IC/BPS specifically state that corticosteroids are not recommended and should be avoided for chronic treatment of IC/BPS. Nonetheless, there is supporting evidence that achieving sufficient concentration of an anti-inflammatory compound in the bladder can reduce the pain and urinary symptoms associated with IC/BPS. 

Instillation therapies are invasive and inconvenient, and oral therapies can offer significant potential advantages for IC/BPS patients. However, despite precedents for IC/BPS anti-inflammatory therapies, there are no satisfactory oral therapies currently available. We believe there is a significant medical need for new and innovative treatments that target the underlying inflammatory disease process. 

The Leadership Phase 2 Trial: AQX-1125 in IC/BPS patients 

During 2015 we completed and reported results from our Leadership trial, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 clinical trial investigating the ability of 200 mg oral, once daily AQX-1125 to reduce pain in female patients with IC/BPS. Primary and secondary endpoint results were announced on June 25, 2015 and August 6, 2015, respectively. The primary endpoint was to measure the difference in the change from baseline in the average daily bladder pain score based on an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) at six weeks recorded by electronic diary. The trial was conducted at investigative sites across Canada and the United States. A total of 69 subjects were enrolled. 

While the top line trial results announced on June 25, 2015 demonstrated a reduction in pain for patients on AQX-1125 as compared to those patients on placebo following six weeks of treatment, the difference did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.061). The mean change in pain score for patients on 200 mg oral, once daily AQX-1125 vs. placebo was a reduction of 2.4 vs. 1.4 points, respectively. Approximately 49% of patients receiving AQX-1125 demonstrated a 2-point or greater reduction in pain compared to 34% of patients receiving placebo. Subsequent results from secondary endpoints of the Leadership trial announced on August 6, 2015 and in subsequent disclosures, such as maximum daily pain, O&#146;Leary-Sant symptom and problem indexes (both individually and combined), bladder pain interstitial cystitis symptom score (BPIC-SS) and urinary frequency, were all statistically significant in consistently favoring AQX-1125, compared to placebo. We believe both the primary and secondary endpoint results support further development in IC/BPS. As with past trial results, AQX-1125 was generally well tolerated. No serious adverse events were recorded during the trial and the overall adverse event rate was similar between AQX-1125 200 mg once daily and placebo. The most frequently reported adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders. 

&#160;

Phase 3 Clinical Trials with AQX-1125 in IC/BPS Patients 

We intend to proceed with further development of AQX-1125 in IC/BPS, including finalizing pivotal trial designs to support product registration in consultation with the appropriate regulatory authorities. Subject to input by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, we anticipate conducting two Phase 3 trials of AQX-1125 in IC/BPS, with the first Phase 3 trial commencing in 2016, and designed as a three-arm, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trial, with 12 weeks dosing followed by open label extensions of either 14 or 40 weeks, to assess the efficacy and long term safety of AQX-1125 in both male and female IC/BPS patients. Patients will be randomized to receive one of two potential doses of AQX-1125 or placebo. The design and execution of the second Phase 3 trial will be informed, in part, by the first trial upon receipt of top-line results once every patient has received 12 weeks of treatment. 

Expanded Clinical Indications for AQX-1125 

We have demonstrated preclinical efficacy with AQX-1125 in a broad range of relevant inflammatory and fibrotic models of inflammation. Our preclinical studies and Phase 2 trial have demonstrated high levels of unmetabolized AQX-1125 in the bladder. This biodistribution of the drug during elimination may have contributed to the observed activity in IC/BPS patients and may suggest potential application in other urinary disorders. Preclinical data suggested high rates of elimination via the bowel which may represent another target tissue for future consideration. In addition to the relevance of SHIP1 as a target, and the properties of AQX-1125, each disease and patient population must also be considered based on its relative unmet medical need, market opportunity, the competitive environment and feasibility of clinical/regulatory pathway. We believe that there are multiple value creating opportunities in further expanding the clinical indications for which AQX-1125 is being evaluated. 

Next Generation SHIP1 Activators 

Our Discovery Platform 

We believe our discovery platform enables us to discover new drug candidates that are SHIP1 activators to modulate activated immune cells while minimizing their toxicity to normal cells. Our discovery platform includes: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a novel in vitro , high throughput assay to screen SHIP1 activators; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a patented approach to screening drugs against the C2 binding domain; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the use of a &#147;SHIP1 knockout mouse&#148; to produce cells for in vitro experiments or for in vivo studies to determine the selectivity and specificity of our compounds; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an extensive library of chemical compounds that are known to be SHIP1 activators. Our discovery effort was initially applied to the screening of a natural product library of compounds to identify potential SHIP1 activators, which were covered by an exclusive license from the University of British Columbia. We chemically modified these initial compounds to improve their activity and pharmaceutical properties, which resulted in several classes of SHIP1 activator compounds being developed. From these compound classes, we developed a key understanding of the chemical characteristics of SHIP1 activators. With this understanding of what compound structure was required to activate SHIP1, we identified additional compound classes through in silico screening of other libraries of interest. We acquired one proprietary compound library of interest from Biolipox AB, with all patents transferred to us without any future royalty obligations. We screened compounds from this acquired library and confirmed that it contained SHIP1 activators, including a compound that was the basis for AQX-1125. 

We have several next generation product candidates in preclinical development that are also SHIP1 activators and we intend to advance these through additional preclinical evaluation. We believe there are anti-inflammatory 

&#160;

diseases and oncologic diseases that would be better addressed by next generation SHIP1 activators that have different properties from AQX-1125 such as having higher potency, concentrating in different tissues, having a different duration of action or being more suitable for different routes of administration. 

With respect to the role of SHIP1 activators in the treatment of cancer, academic scientists have shown that in certain immune cell cancers the suppressed activity of SHIP1 could play a central role in the deregulation of PI3K pathway and tumor growth. Restoration of the SHIP1 activity by activators may make immune cell cancers more susceptible to chemotherapy. In addition, there is evidence that activating SHIP1 can reduce the chronic inflammation surrounding solid tumors, making these tumors more susceptible to chemotherapy. The treatment of cancer by modulating the PI3K pathway via SHIP1 offers a potentially promising new approach to improve the treatment of either immune cell cancers or solid tumors. We believe next generation product candidates in the treatment of inflammation and cancer offer significant market potential. 

Strategy 

We intend to maintain and strengthen our leadership position in the development of small molecule drugs that target SHIP1. We intend to participate in the potential commercialization of AQX-1125 and other potential drug candidates that we develop with plans to build a targeted commercial infrastructure focusing on specialist physicians for the United States and Canada. For territories outside of the United States and Canada and to target primary care physicians globally, for which our potential drug candidates may have a market, it is our intention to identify a strategic partner to fully optimize the commercial potential of AQX-1125 and other potential drug candidates that we may develop. We have a management team with broad-based experience and expertise that span drug discovery through Phase 3 trials and regulatory filings. We intend to add additional members to our management team to strengthen our overall expertise. The key components of our strategy are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Focus on successfully developing AQX-1125 for IC/BPS. Our principal focus is on advancing AQX-1125 into Phase 3 trials including the submission of a clinical trial protocol to the FDA in the second quarter of 2016 and the prospective initiation of one Phase 3 clinical trial in the latter half of 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Complete supporting activities required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. We will undertake additional work necessary for regulatory approval. Some of these activities are already underway and others will be undertaken in the future. These supportive activities are related to manufacturing, toxicology and additional clinical development. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Examine requirements and rationale for additional clinical trials with AQX-1125. In part to ensure safety database requirements mandated by the FDA are met and also to potentially explore the breadth of therapeutic potential of AQX-1125, we will consider undertaking additional clinical trials with AQX-1125. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Advance our next generation compounds in indications not covered by AQX-1125 . We believe there are anti-inflammatory diseases that would be better addressed by our next generation SHIP1 activators that have different properties from AQX-1125 such as concentrating in different tissues, having a different duration of action or being more suitable for different routes of administration. We already have a significant library of candidate compounds and will advance these through additional preclinical evaluation. We also intend to explore the role of SHIP1 activators in the treatment of cancer. Each of these applications offers significant market potential. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Evaluate on a selective basis strategic partnerships to maximize the commercial potential of AQX-1125 and actively pursue partnerships for our next generation and other non-core assets . From a commercialization strategy perspective, we have intentionally maintained full commercial rights to our product candidates to date. A decision on partnering will be made at the time when our available data supports a well-defined path to approval and market, as this timing will enable us to capture maximum value from our product candidates. We intend to explore a variety of alternatives for the potential commercialization of AQX-1125 on a global basis, including direct commercialization, co-

&#160;

&#160; promotion or selective territorial out-licensing of rights to a third party. It is our intention to participate in the potential commercialization of AQX-1125 in the United States and Canada and to seek a strategic partner for other territories. By retaining worldwide rights to AQX-1125 through early development we have maintained flexibility for any future commercialization of AQX-1125. We intend to pursue a similar strategy for our next generation product candidates, except for those that require expertise outside our core-areas or require resources beyond those available to us. For non-core assets, as we advance our next generation product candidates, we intend to seek early partnerships to defray the cost, risk and infrastructure requirements in order to further their commercial development. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Evaluate and consider obtaining rights to complementary products and technologies . Beyond our intention to participate in the potential commercialization of AQX-1125 in the United States and Canada, we will evaluate and consider licensing or acquiring commercial or development stage products and technologies in an opportunistic manner that would strategically fit with our potential future commercial organization. Research and Development 

Since commencing operations, we have dedicated a significant portion of our resources to the development of product candidates, particularly AQX-1125. We incurred research and development expenses of $15.8 million, $18.1 million and $7.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We anticipate that a significant portion of our operating expenses will continue to be related to research and development as we continue to advance AQX-1125 and our future product candidates. 

Intellectual Property 

Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for AQX-1125 and our future product candidates, novel biological discoveries, screening and drug development technologies such as our SHIP1 discovery platform, manufacturing and process discoveries, and other inventions that are important to our business, as well as to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We strive to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrets laws, as well as through confidentiality provisions in our contracts. 

With respect to AQX-1125 and our future product candidates, we endeavor to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and internationally on all patentable aspects of AQX-1125 and our other pipeline products, as it is critical to our global business strategy. Our patenting strategy is initially to pursue patent protection covering both compositions of matter and methods of use of AQX-1125 and our future product candidates and then seek to obtain additional patent protection throughout the development process on other aspects of our technology that would potentially enhance our competitive exclusivity and commercial success. Such additional means of protection may include filing applications with claims to additional methods of use, processes of manufacture, methods of screening, biomarkers, and companion diagnostics. We also rely on continuing technological innovation, know-how and trade secrets relating to our discovery platform and product candidates and seek to protect and maintain the confidentiality of proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

The patent positions of biotechnology companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted, or the patent held invalid after issuance. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate patent protection for AQX-1125 or any of our future product candidates. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. For a more comprehensive discussion of the risks related to our intellectual property, please see the section of this Annual Report captioned &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Related to Intellectual Property.&#148; 

&#160;

Our patent estate on a worldwide basis includes approximately 29 issued patents and approximately 52 pending patent applications that we are actively prosecuting and/or maintaining. These figures include patents and patent applications to which we hold exclusive commercial rights under our licenses from third parties. Our solely owned issued patents include five U.S. patents and 12 foreign patents and our solely owned patent applications include five U.S. application and 46 foreign patent applications. 

Intellectual Property Relating to AQX-1125 

We are the sole owner of a patent portfolio that includes issued patents and pending patent applications covering compositions of matter and methods of use of AQX-1125. We acquired these patents and applications relating to AQX-1125 by way of an asset purchase from Biolipox AB in August 2009. This patent portfolio includes four issued United States patents and 11 foreign patents issued in Europe, Japan, Canada, Korea, Mexico, Norway, Russia, Australia and New Zealand. Our issued patents cover the composition of matter of both the class of compounds to which AQX-1125 belongs, and AQX-1125 specifically, as well as methods for using AQX-1125. The foreign patents will expire in 2024, while the U.S. patents will expire in 2024-28, excluding patent term extensions that may be available in the United States under the Hatch-Waxman Act or in foreign countries under similar statutes. The expiration dates of the issued U.S. patents relating to AQX-1125 include patent term adjustment (PTA) under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. &#167;154; namely, we have received a PTA extension of 1,379 days for U.S. Patent 7,601,874, which covers the composition of matter of AQX-1125, and a PTA extension of 58 days for U.S. Patent 8,084,503 which covers the methods of using AQX-1125. 

Patent Terms 

The term of individual patents and patent applications listed in previous sections will depend upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries, the patent term is 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application (or parent application, if applicable). For example, if an international Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, application is filed, any patent issuing from the PCT application in a specific country expires 20 years from the filing date of the PCT application. In the United States, however, if a patent was in force on June 8, 1995, or issued on an application that was filed before June 8, 1995, that patent will have a term that is the greater of 20 years from the filing date or 17 years from the date of issue. 

In the United States, the Hatch-Waxman Act permits the patent term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug to be eligible for patent term extension, or PTE, of up to five years beyond the original expiration of the patent. This patent term restoration acts as compensation for the patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process if approval of the application for the product is the first permitted commercial marketing of a drug or biological product containing the active ingredient. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review, and is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of a NDA plus the time between the submission date of a NDA and the approval of that application. Patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our products receive FDA approval, we anticipate applying for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. We intend to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available, however there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and if granted, the length of such extensions. 

Trade Secrets 

In addition to patents, we also rely upon proprietary know-how (including trade secrets) to protect our technology and maintain and develop our competitive position. In some situations, maintaining information as a trade secret 

&#160;

may be more appropriate to protect the type of technology than filing a patent application. We seek to protect our confidential and proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements and it is our policy to require employees, consultants, scientific advisors, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and contractors to execute such agreements upon the commencement of a relationship with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual&#146;s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. We also employ invention assignment clauses in our agreements to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third party. Our agreements with employees also provide that all inventions conceived by the employee in the course of employment with us or from the employee&#146;s use of our confidential information are our exclusive property. We also seek to preserve our trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. 

While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to, or disclose, our trade secrets. To the extent that our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors, or any future collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. For this and more comprehensive risks related to our proprietary technology and processes, please see the section of this Annual Report captioned &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Related to Intellectual Property.&#148; 

Contractual Obligations Related to Intellectual Property 

On August 19, 2009, AQXP Canada entered into an asset purchase agreement with Biolipox AB of Sweden, or Biolipox, for the purchase of all assets, including patent rights and know-how, relating exclusively or principally to a compound library from which we ultimately identified and selected AQX-1125. Under the terms of the agreement, AQXP Canada paid Biolipox CAD $50,000 immediately upon closing. An additional CAD $250,000 by way of issuance of 19,762 shares of our common stock was made in June 2014 upon the first submission to the FDA of an IND for a compound from the acquired class. The terms of the agreement also require a one-time CAD $3 million milestone payment upon the commitment of financial resources by the Board of Directors of AQXP Canada to advance AQX-1125 into a Phase 3 clinical trial. We will also be required to make certain other milestone payments totaling up to CAD $1.5 million in the aggregate upon the first commercial sale of the first compound covered by the acquired patent rights (which we expect will be triggered by the first commercial sale of AQX-1125) in each of the United States, Europe and Japan. 

AQXP Canada entered into an exclusive license agreement with the University of British Columbia, or UBC, in June 2006, for certain patent rights and technology relating to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutical compositions as modulators of SHIP1 activity. This agreement was amended and restated in June 2007, and subsequently amended in October 2006, June 2007, September 2008 and April 2010. This agreement will expire on the expiry of the last issued patent covering the licensed technology. The agreement will terminate automatically upon our insolvency or may be terminated by either party for material breach by the other party. The terms of the agreement required AQXP Canada to pay an initial license fee of CAD $50,000, all of which was paid by the issuance of 100,000 common exchangeable shares of AQXP Canada. We do not currently have any product candidates under development that are covered by the agreement, nor have we sublicensed our rights under the licensed patents. However, if we develop products covered by the UBC technology in the future, we will be required to pay certain development and regulatory milestones up to an aggregate of CAD $2.2 million for the first drug product developed under the license and up to CAD $1.5 million for each subsequent drug product, which may be paid in cash or by issue of our shares. We must also pay UBC low single-digit royalties based on aggregate worldwide net sales of products covered by the licensed patents and a percentage of sublicensing revenue ranging from the low single digits to the mid double digits based on the stage of 

&#160;

development at which such sublicense is granted. We are also required to reimburse costs incurred by UBC related to the prosecution and maintenance of the licensed patents, and to pay an annual license maintenance fee in the amount of CAD $1,000. 

In May 2005, AQXP Canada entered into an assignment agreement, which was subsequently amended in December 2005 and March 2006, with the British Columbia Cancer Agency (&#147;BCCA&#148;) and StemCell Technologies, Inc. (&#147;STI&#148;), for the assignment to AQXP Canada of the 2002 exclusive license agreement between BCCA and STI to certain patents relating to technology relating to SHIP1. The license agreement between AQXP Canada and BCCA was amended and restated on August 9, 2006 and on June 8, 2007. This agreement has subsequently been amended in June 2008 to revise the schedule of the technology licensed under this agreement, and further amended in February 2013. Pursuant to this agreement, as amended, BCCA has granted us an exclusive worldwide license to certain of its intellectual property relating to core SHIP1 technology, and screening of compounds for activity using SHIP1, including the C2 binding domain. The agreement is to expire at the later of 20 years from the effective date of the agreement or upon the expiration of the last patent covered by the license. The terms of the assignment agreement among STI, BCCA and AQXP Canada required AQXP Canada to pay an assignment license fee of CAD $150,000 paid in stages beginning May 2005 and ending March 2006. We do not currently have any product candidates under development that are covered by the BCCA license agreement, nor have we sublicensed our rights under the licensed patents. However, if we develop products covered by the BCCA technology in the future, we will be required to pay BCCA low single-digit royalties based on aggregate worldwide net sales of products covered by the licensed patents, and if we sublicense any rights to the technology, a low double digit percentage of sublicensing revenue. We are also required to reimburse BCCA&#146;s patent costs incurred in relation to the licensed technology, and pay an annual maintenance fee in the amount of CAD $5,000. Our license with BCCA will terminate automatically upon our insolvency, and may be terminated by either party for material breach by the other party. 

General Considerations 

As with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, our ability to maintain and solidify a proprietary position for our product candidates will depend upon our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims once granted. 

Our commercial success will depend in part upon not infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. It is uncertain whether the issuance of any third-party patent would require us to alter our development or commercial strategies, or our product candidates or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. If a third party commences a patent infringement action against us, or our collaborators, it could consume significant financial and management resources, regardless of the merit of the claims or the outcome of the litigation. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapid innovation, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our SHIP1 and related technologies, product candidates, intellectual property, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and public and private research institutions, among others. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

Key product features that would affect our ability to effectively compete with other therapeutics include the efficacy, safety and convenience of our products and the ease of use and effectiveness of any companion diagnostics. The level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors will also significantly affect the pricing and competitiveness of our products. 

&#160;

Few treatments exist for IC/BPS and bladder instillations remain the mainstay therapy for symptomatic relief of IC/BPS with intravesical administration of analgesics, DMSO, sodium hyaluronate, heparin and cocktails of the same being typical. There are no oral anti-inflammatories approved by the FDA for the treatment of IC/BPS; however, the leading oral therapy approved by the FDA is Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.&#146;s pentosan polysulfate sodium, marketed in the United States as Elmiron. We are aware of several other companies developing competing therapies that are in various stages of development for the treatment of IC/BPS. Companies competing in this space include AbbVie (Humira), Pfizer (tanezumab), Astellas (ASP3652), Urigen (URG101), Allergan (LiRIS), Lipella (LP-08), UroGen (BotuGel) and Afferent (AF219). 

Manufacturing 

We conduct our manufacturing activities for our clinical development of our product candidates under individual purchase orders with third-party contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) as we currently have no manufacturing facilities and do not intend to develop one. We have in place quality agreements with our key CMOs. We have also established an internal quality management system, which audits and qualifies CMOs. Our third-party manufacturers, their facilities and all lots of drug substance and drug products used in our clinical trials are required to be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). 

AQX-1125 is a small molecule capable of being manufactured in reliable, reproducible, and scalable synthetic processes from readily available starting materials. A bioequivalence study was completed in 2015 demonstrating no difference between AQX-1125 capsules and tablets and we have selected tablets as our preferred dosage form going forward due to favorable manufacturing and related considerations. We believe the chemistry used to manufacture AQX-1125 is amenable to scale up and does not require unusual equipment in the manufacturing process. One of our CMOs is currently manufacturing active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) on multi-kilogram scale, for use in preclinical and clinical development of AQX-1125. A second CMO produces AQX-1125 final drug product for use in our ongoing clinical trials. We believe that the manufacturing processes for AQX-1125 API and final drug product have been developed to adequately support current development. For future development and commercial demands, additional CMO activities will be required for API process development, API manufacturing validation, and final drug product formulation. We believe that our existing suppliers of AQX-1125 API and drug products would be capable of providing sufficient quantities of the AQX-1125 API and drug products to meet anticipated commercial demands. 

The FDA and other health authorities worldwide regulate and inspect equipment, facilities and processes used in manufacturing pharmaceutical products prior to approval. If we fail to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek sanctions, including fines, civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products and criminal prosecution. Although we periodically monitor the FDA compliance of our third-party CMOs, we cannot be certain that our present or future third-party CMOs will consistently comply with cGMP and other applicable FDA regulatory requirements. 

Commercial Operations 

We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We may rely on licensing and co-promotion agreements with strategic partners for the commercialization of our products in the United States and other territories. If we choose to build a commercial infrastructure to support marketing in the United States and Canada, such commercial infrastructure could be expected to include a targeted sales force supported by sales management, internal sales support, an internal marketing group and distribution support. To develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure internally, we would have to invest financial and management resources, some of which would have to be deployed prior to any confirmation that AQX-1125 will be approved. 

&#160;

Government Regulation 

As a pharmaceutical company that operates and anticipates seeking approval for pharmaceutical product candidates in the United States, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, and other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and its implementing regulations set forth, among other things, requirements for the research, testing, development, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, distribution, import, export, advertising and promotion of our products. Our pharmaceutical product candidates must be approved by the FDA before we can commence clinical trials or market those products in the United States. 

Although the discussion below focuses on regulation in the United States, we conduct research activities and anticipate seeking approval for, and marketing of, our products in other countries and regions, such as Canada and Europe. Generally, our activities in other countries will be subject to regulation that is similar in nature and scope as that imposed in the United States, although there can be important differences. Additionally, some significant aspects of regulation in Europe are addressed in a centralized way through the EMA, but country-specific regulation remains essential in many respects. The process of obtaining regulatory marketing approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

FDA Regulation 

The FDA is the main regulatory body that controls pharmaceuticals in the United States, and its regulatory authority is based in the FDC Act. Pharmaceutical products are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes. A failure to comply with any requirements during the product development, approval, or post-approval periods, may lead to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the imposition by the FDA or an institutional review board, or IRB, of a hold on clinical trials, refusal to approve pending marketing applications or supplements, withdrawal of approval, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

The steps required before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s Good Laboratory Practices regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an IRB at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in accordance with federal regulations and with current good clinical practices, or GCPs, to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational drug product for each targeted indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission of New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee review, if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the investigational product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. &#160;

Clinical Trials 

An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational drug product to humans. This authorization is required before interstate shipping and administration of any new drug product to humans that is not the subject of an approved NDA. A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has neither commented on nor questioned the IND within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to patients under the supervision of qualified investigators following GCPs, an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators and monitors. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols that detail the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. The informed written consent of each participating subject is required. The clinical investigation of an investigational drug is generally divided into three phases. Although the phases are usually conducted sequentially, they may overlap or be combined. The three phases of an investigation are generally described as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 &#150; Phase 1 includes the initial introduction of an investigational drug into humans. Phase 1 clinical trials may be conducted in patients with the target disease or condition or healthy volunteers. These trials are designed to evaluate the safety, metabolism, pharmacokinetics and pharmacologic actions of the investigational drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. During Phase 1 clinical trials, sufficient information about the investigational product&#146;s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects may be obtained to permit the design of Phase 2 clinical trials. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 &#150; Phase 2 includes the controlled clinical trials conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the investigational product for a particular indication(s) in patients with the disease or condition under study, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks associated with the drug. Phase 2 clinical trials are typically well-controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a limited patient population. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3 &#150; Phase 3 clinical trials are controlled clinical trials conducted in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the investigational product has been obtained, and are intended to further evaluate dosage, clinical effectiveness and safety, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the product, and to provide an adequate basis for product approval. In most cases, the FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the drug. A single Phase 3 trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the trial is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The decision to terminate development of an investigational drug product may be made by either a health authority body, such as the FDA or IRB/ethics committees, or by a company for various reasons. The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. In some cases, clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the trial sponsor, or the clinical monitoring board. 

&#160;

This group provides authorization for whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points. These decisions are based on the limited access to data from the ongoing trial. The suspension or termination of development can occur during any phase of clinical trials if it is determined that the participants or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, there are requirements for the registration of ongoing clinical trials of drugs on public registries and the disclosure of certain information pertaining to the trials as well as clinical trial results after completion. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the product and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, detailed investigational drug product information is submitted to the FDA in the form of a NDA to request market approval for the product in specified indications. 

New Drug Applications 

In order to obtain approval to market a drug in the United States, a marketing application must be submitted to the FDA that provides data establishing the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the proposed indication. The application includes all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical studies and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacturing, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. Data can come from company-sponsored clinical trials intended to test the safety and effectiveness of a product, or from a number of alternative sources, including studies initiated by investigators. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and effectiveness of the investigational drug product to the satisfaction of the FDA. 

In most cases, the NDA must be accompanied by a substantial user fee; there may be some instances in which the user fee is waived. The FDA will initially review the NDA for completeness before it accepts the NDA for filing. The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency&#146;s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs. Most such applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within ten to 12 months of submission. The FDA can extend this review by three months to consider certain late-submitted information or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission. The FDA does not always achieve its performance goal and its review of NDAs can take significantly longer. The FDA reviews the NDA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP. The FDA may refer applications for novel drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites 

&#160;

to assure compliance with GCP. After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. The approval process is lengthy and difficult and notwithstanding the submission of any requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may refuse to approve an NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or if the FDA believes additional clinical data or other data and information are required. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than a company interprets the same data. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. FDA&#146;s approval of a product may be significantly limited to specific disease and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings, or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, as a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The requirement for REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug&#146;s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. 

Advertising and Promotion 

The FDA and other federal regulatory agencies closely regulate the marketing and promotion of drugs through, among other things, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, communications regarding unapproved uses, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. A product cannot be commercially promoted before it is approved. After approval, product promotion can include only those claims relating to safety and effectiveness that are consistent with the labeling approved by the FDA. Healthcare providers are permitted to prescribe drugs for &#147;off-label&#148; uses &#150; that is, uses not approved by the FDA and therefore not described in the drug&#146;s labeling &#150; because the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine. However, FDA regulations impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers&#146; communications regarding off-label uses. Broadly speaking, a manufacturer may not promote a drug for off-label use, but may engage in non-promotional, balanced communication regarding off-label use under specified conditions. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements and restrictions in this area may subject a company to adverse publicity and enforcement action by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), or the Office of the Inspector General of HHS, as well as state authorities. This could subject a company to a range of penalties that could have a significant commercial impact, including civil and criminal fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which a company promotes or distributes drug products. 

Post-Approval Regulations 

After regulatory approval of a drug is obtained, a company is required to comply with a number of post-approval requirements. For example, as a condition of approval of an NDA, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, 

&#160;

including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. In addition, as a holder of an approved NDA, a company would be required to report adverse reactions and production problems to the FDA, to provide updated safety and efficacy information, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for any of its products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval to assure and preserve the long term stability of the drug or biological product. The cGMP requirements apply to all stages of the manufacturing process, including the production, processing, sterilization, packaging, labeling, storage and shipment of the drug product. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and substantive record keeping requirements. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated, and, depending on the significance of the change, may require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon a company and any third-party manufacturers that a company may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMP and other aspects of regulatory compliance. 

We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at our facilities or at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. 

The FDA may withdraw a product approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or the failure to comply with applicable requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary, FDA-initiated or judicial action that could delay or prohibit further marketing. Further, the failure to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, warning letters, holds on clinical trials, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties. 

Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product&#146;s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and also may require the implementation of other risk management measures. Also, new government requirements, including those resulting from new legislation, may be established, or the FDA&#146;s policies may change, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development. 

Compliance 

During all phases of development (pre- and post-marketing), failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA&#146;s imposition of a clinical hold on trials, refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Comparable European, Canadian and Other International Government Regulation 

In addition to FDA regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of comparable regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. 

&#160;

Some countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical trial application, or CTA, much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. In Europe, for example, a CTA must be submitted to each country&#146;s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country&#146;s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed. To obtain regulatory approval to commercialize a new drug under European Union regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application, or MAA. The MAA is similar to the NDA, with the exception of, among other things, country-specific document requirements. 

In Canada, biopharmaceutical product candidates are regulated by the Food and Drugs Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which are enforced by the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada, or TPD. Before commencing clinical trials in Canada, an applicant must complete preclinical studies and file a CTA with the TPD. After filing a CTA, the applicant must receive different clearance authorizations to proceed with Phase 1 clinical trials, which can then lead to Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials. To obtain regulatory approval to commercialize a new drug in Canada, a new drug submission, or NDS, must be filed with the TPD. If the NDS demonstrates that the product was developed in accordance with the regulatory authorities&#146; rules, regulations and guidelines and demonstrates favorable safety and efficacy and receives a favorable risk/benefit analysis, the TPD issues a notice of compliance which allows the applicant to market the product. 

For other countries outside of the European Union and Canada, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, again, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements 

In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to additional regulation and oversight under other healthcare laws by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the DOJ, and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the DOJ, and state and local governments. These laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term remuneration has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. The exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for protection under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor from federal Anti-Kickback Statute liability. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor, however, does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Affordable Care Act, further strengthened these laws by amending the intent standard under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the criminal health care fraud statutes (discussed below) to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the Affordable Care 

&#160;

Act codified case law that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below). 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. As a result of a modification made by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, a claim includes &#147;any request or demand&#148; for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies&#146; marketing of the product for off-label, and thus, non-covered, uses. 

The civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person or entity who, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any money or property owned by, or under the control or custody of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device, a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

We may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes certain HIPAA standards directly applicable to business associates &#150; independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Additionally, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the Affordable Care Act, and its implementing regulations, require that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and payments or other &#147;transfers of value&#148; to such physician owners and their immediate family members. 

In order to distribute products commercially, we must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products in a state, including, in some states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no 

&#160;

place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to, among other things, establish compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/ or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing specified physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit other specified sales and marketing practices. In addition, our future commercial activities may also be subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state healthcare laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including without limitation, civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare, injunctions, as well as reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

Coverage, Reimbursement and Pricing 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug products for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend, in part, on the extent that third-party payors provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for such drug products. In the United States, third-party payors include federal healthcare programs, state healthcare programs, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the price of a drug product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that such a payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of drug products and medical services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. AQX-1125 or our future product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the drug product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If a drug product is reimbursed under a governmental healthcare program, such as Medicare, Medicaid or TRICARE, additional laws and program requirements will apply. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Union, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed upon. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for drugs, but monitor and 

&#160;

control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become more intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. The European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. We may face competition for our product candidates from lower-priced products in foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. 

The marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Healthcare Reform 

In March 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act, which has the potential to substantially change healthcare financing and delivery by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act impacts existing government healthcare programs and requires the development of new programs. For example, the Affordable Care Act provides for Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. 

Among the Affordable Care Act&#146;s provisions of importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents apportioned among these entities according to their market share in some government healthcare programs, that began in 2011; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010, to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of AMP; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturers&#146; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; extension of manufacturers&#146; Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in 2014 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers&#146; Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; new requirements to report annually specified financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in the Affordable Care Act and its implementing regulations, including reporting information related to &#147;payments or other transfers of value&#148; made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations to report annually to HHS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other &#147;transfers of value&#148; to such physician owners and their immediate family members; a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to licensed practitioners, pharmacies of hospitals and other healthcare entities; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. The Affordable Care Act also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. The IPAB is mandated to propose changes in Medicare payments if it determines that the rate of growth of Medicare expenditures exceeds target growth rates. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies to reduce expenditures, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for pharmaceutical products. A proposal made by the IPAB is required to be implemented by CMS unless Congress adopts a proposal with savings greater than those proposed by the IPAB. However, in 2014 the Congress partially defunded the IPAB and the IPAB has yet to be empaneled, and thus it remains unclear if and when the IPAB will be implemented. Since its enactment there have been other judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to it in the future. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will stay in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Furthermore, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny recently over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. For example, there have been several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. These new laws and initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our future customers and accordingly, our financial operations. 

We anticipate that the Affordable Care Act will result in additional downward pressure on coverage and the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products. In addition, it is possible that there will be further legislation or regulation that could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

&#160;

Anti-Corruption Legislation 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring us to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. 

The Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, or CFPOA, prohibits Canadian businesses and individuals from giving or offering to give a benefit of any kind to a foreign public official, or any other person for the benefit of the foreign public official, where the ultimate purpose is to obtain or retain a business advantage. Under the CFPOA, companies may be liable for the actions of their employees or third-party agents, even if such persons operate outside of Canada. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 24 employees, of whom five hold Ph.D. degrees or M.D. degrees. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

Corporate Information 

We commenced operations as 6175813 Canada Inc., a corporation formed in December 2003 under the Canada Business Corporations Act. In May 2014, after a corporate restructuring, we changed the name of such entity to Aquinox Pharmaceuticals (Canada) Inc. We incorporated Aquinox Pharmaceuticals (USA) Inc., a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware, in May 2007. We subsequently changed the name of this corporation in January 2014 to Aquinox Pharmaceuticals, Inc. AQXP Canada is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aquinox USA. Our primary executive offices are located at 450-887 Great Northern Way, Vancouver, B.C., Canada V5T 4T5 and our telephone number is (604) 629-9223. Our website address is www.aqxpharma.com. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Annual Report. 

