 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Northrim BanCorp, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a publicly traded bank holding company headquartered in Anchorage, Alaska. The Company&#8217;s common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market (&#8220;NASDAQ&#8221;) under the symbol, &#8220;NRIM.&#8221; The Company is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. We began banking operations in Anchorage in December 1990, and formed the Company as an Alaska corporation in connection with our reorganization into a holding company structure; that reorganization was completed effective December 31, 2001. &#32; The Company has grown to be the third largest commercial bank in Alaska and in Anchorage in terms of deposits, with $1.2 billion &#32;in total deposits and $1.5 billion &#32;in total assets at December 31, 2015 . Through our fourteen banking branches and fourteen mortgage origination offices, we are accessible to approximately 90% of the Alaska population. 

The Company has four direct wholly-owned subsidiaries: 

&#8226; 

Northrim Bank (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), a state chartered, full-service commercial bank headquartered in Anchorage, Alaska. The Bank is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and the State of Alaska Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development, Division of Banking, Securities and Corporations. The Bank has fourteen branch locations in Alaska; seven in Anchorage, one in Wasilla, two in Juneau, one in Fairbanks, one in Ketchikan, one in Sitka, and one Eagle River. We also operate in Washington State through Northrim Funding Services (&#8220;NFS&#8221;), a factoring business that the Bank started in 2004. We offer a wide array of commercial and consumer loan and deposit products, investment products, and electronic banking services over the Internet; 

&#8226; 

Northrim Investment Services Company (&#8220;NISC&#8221;) was formed in November 2002 to hold the Company&#8217;s equity interest in Elliott Cove Capital Management, LLC ("ECCM"), an investment advisory services company. &#32; In the first quarter of 2006, through NISC, we purchased an equity interest in Pacific Wealth Advisors, LLC (&#8220;PWA&#8221;), an investment advisory, trust, and wealth management business located in Seattle, Washington, in which we hold 24% of PWA's total outstanding equity interests. In May 2015, we sold all of our equity interest in ECCM held by NISC; 

&#8226; 

Northrim Capital Trust I (&#8220;NCTI&#8221;), an entity that we formed in May of 2003 to facilitate a trust preferred securities offering by the Company; 

&#8226; 

Northrim Statutory Trust 2 (&#8220;NST2&#8221;), an entity that we formed in December of 2005 to facilitate a trust preferred securities offering by the Company; and 

The Bank has three direct wholly-owned subsidiaries: 

&#8226; 

Northrim Capital Investments Co. (&#8220;NCIC&#8221;) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, which holds a 100% interest in a residential mortgage holding company, Residential Mortgage Holding Company, LLC (&#8220;RML&#8221;). The predecessor of RML, Residential Mortgage, LLC, was formed in 1998 and has fourteen offices throughout Alaska. RML became a wholly-owned subsidiary of NCIC on December 1, 2014. Prior to that, the Company held a 23.5% interest in RML. RML holds a 30% investment in Homestate Mortgage, LLC and held a 33% interest in Sentinel until August 31, 2015, when the interest was divested. In March and December of 2005, NCIC purchased ownership interests totaling 50.1% in Northrim Benefits Group, LLC (&#8220;NBG&#8221;), an insurance brokerage company that focuses on the sale and servicing of employee benefit plans. In the fourth quarter of 2011, NCIC purchased an equity interest in Elliott Cove Insurance Agency LLC (&#8220;ECIA&#8221;); an insurance agency that offers annuity and other insurance products. We sold all of our equity interests in ECIA held by NCIC in May 2015. 

&#8226; 

Northrim Building, LLC (&#8220;NBL&#8221;) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank that owns and operates the Company&#8217;s main office facility at 3111 C Street in Anchorage. 

&#8226; 

Lake Otis, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank that owns and operates the Company&#8217;s community branch facility at 2270 E. 37th Avenue in Anchorage. 

Segments 

The Company operates in two primary segments: Community Banking and Home Mortgage Lending. Prior to December 2014, the Company operated as a single segment. As of December 31, 2014, management determined, based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), that the Company operates with two segments as a result of the acquisition of RML on December 1, 2014. Measures of the Company's revenues, profit or loss, and total assets are included in this report, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", and incorporated herein by reference. 

Business Strategy 

The Company&#8217;s primary objective is to become Alaska's most trusted financial institution by adding value for our customers, communities, and shareholders. We aspire to be Alaska's premier bank and employer of choice as a leader in financial expertise, products, and services. We value our state, and we are proud to be Alaskan. We embody Alaska's frontier spirit and values, and we support our communities. We have a sincere appreciation for our customers, and we strive to deliver superior customer first service that is reliable, ethical, and secure. We look for growth opportunities for our customers, our institution and our employees. 

Our strategy is one of value-added growth. Management believes that calculated, sustainable organic and inorganic market share growth coupled with good asset quality, an appropriate core deposit and capital base, operational efficiency, diversified sources of other operating income, and improved profitability is the most appropriate means of increasing shareholder value. 

The Company executed on our strategy of inorganic growth in 2014 through our acquisition of Alaska Pacific Bancshares, Inc. ("Alaska Pacific Bank") on April 1, 2014 and our acquisition of the remaining 76.5% equity interest in RML on December 1, 2014. The acquisition of Alaska Pacific Bank benefits the Company's core business through increased loan and deposit balances, an increased customer base, and expansion into the Southeast region of Alaska. The acquisition of RML increases the Company's presence in the mortgage origination business in Alaska and enhances our ability to provide financial services to our customers. Both of these acquisitions have been accretive to the Company's earnings per share since their respective completion dates in 2014. 

Our business strategy emphasizes commercial lending products and services through relationship banking with businesses and professional individuals. Additionally, we are a significant land development and residential construction lender and an active lender in the commercial real estate market in our Alaskan markets. Because of our relatively small size, our experienced senior management team can be more involved with serving customers and making credit decisions, allowing us to compete more favorably with larger competitors for lending relationships. We believe that there is opportunity to increase the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio, particularly in the commercial portion of the portfolio, in the Company&#8217;s current market areas through existing and new 

customers including in the Company's new market area in Southeast Alaska. Through our acquisition of Alaska Pacific Bank, the Company's market now includes Ketchikan, Sitka, and the state's capital city, Juneau. In addition to lending products, in many cases commercial customers also require multiple deposit and affiliate services that add franchise value to the Company. Additionally, management believes that our real estate construction and term real estate loan departments have developed a strong level of expertise and will continue to compete favorably in our markets. Lastly, we have dedicated additional resources to our small business lending operations and have targeted the acquisition of new customers in professional fields including physicians, dentists, accountants, and attorneys. While we expect that opportunities for growth in 2016 have decreased due to the recent decline in oil prices, we believe that these strategies will continue to benefit the Company in the long term. The Company benefits from solid capital and liquidity positions, and management believes that this provides a competitive advantage in the current business environment. (See &#8220;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;.) 

The Company&#8217;s business strategy also stresses the importance of customer deposit relationships to support its lending activities. Our guiding principle is to serve our market areas by operating with a &#8220;Superior Customer First Service&#8221; philosophy, affording our customers the highest priority in all aspects of our operations. We believe that our successful execution of this philosophy has created a strong core deposit franchise that provides a stable, low cost funding source for expanded growth in all of our lending areas. We have devoted significant resources to future deposit product development, expansion of electronic services for both personal and business customers, and enhancement of information security related to these services. 

In addition to market share growth, a significant aspect of the Company&#8217;s business strategy is focused on managing the credit quality of our loan portfolio. Over the last several years, the Company has allocated substantial resources to the credit management function of the Bank to provide enhanced financial analysis of our largest, most complex loan relationships to further develop our processes for analyzing and managing various concentrations of credit within the overall loan portfolio and to develop strategies to improve or collect our existing loans. Continued success in maintaining or further improving the credit quality of our loan portfolio and decreasing our level of other real estate owned is a significant aspect of the Company&#8217;s strategy for attaining sustainable, long-term market growth to affect increased shareholder value. 

Employees 

We believe that we provide a high level of customer service. To achieve our objective of providing &#8220;Superior Customer First Service&#8221;, management emphasizes the hiring and retention of competent and highly motivated employees at all levels of the organization. Management believes that a well-trained and highly motivated core of employees allows maximum personal contact with customers in order to understand and fulfill customer needs and preferences. This &#8220;Superior Customer First Service&#8221; philosophy is combined with our emphasis on personalized, local decision making. In keeping with this philosophy and with our strategy to increase our market share, the Company has hired five new loan officers in the last four years who either have valuable expertise in our niche markets, or who have extensive experience in commercial lending in Alaska and offer valuable mentorship and training to the rest of our lending team. Additionally, the Company continues to enhance our company-wide employee training program which focuses on Northrim culture, Customer First Service, general sales skills, and various technical focus areas. 

We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We had 441 &#32;full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2015 . None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Of the 441 full-time equivalent employees, 317 were Community Banking employees and 124 were Home Mortgage Lending employees. 

Products and Services 

Community Banking 

Lending Services: &#160; We have an emphasis on commercial and real estate lending. We also believe we have a significant niche in construction and land development lending in Anchorage, Fairbanks, the Matanuska-Susitna Valley, and Southeast Alaska. (See &#8220;Loans&#8221; in Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;.) 

Asset-based lending: &#32; We provide short-term working capital to customers primarily in our Alaska markets as well as Washington, Oregon and some other states by purchasing their accounts receivable through NFS. In 2016 , we expect NFS to continue to penetrate these markets and to continue to contribute to the Company&#8217;s net income. 

Deposit Services : Our deposit services include noninterest-bearing checking accounts and interest-bearing time deposits, checking accounts, and savings accounts. Our interest-bearing accounts generally earn interest at rates established by management based on competitive market factors and management&#8217;s desire to increase or decrease certain types or maturities of deposits. We have two deposit products that are indexed to specific U.S. Treasury rates. 

Several of our deposit services and products are: 

&#8226; 

An indexed money market deposit account; 

&#8226; 

A &#8220;Jump-Up&#8221; certificate of deposit (&#8220;CD&#8221;) that allows additional deposits with the opportunity to increase the rate to the current market rate for a similar term CD; 

&#8226; 

An indexed savings account that allows additional deposits, quarterly withdrawals without penalty, and tailored maturity dates; and 

&#8226; 

Arrangements to courier noncash deposits from our customers to their local Northrim Bank branch. 

Other Services : In addition to our traditional deposit and lending services, we offer our customers several convenience services: Consumer Online Banking, Mobile App and Mobile Deposit, Mobile Web and Text Banking, Business Online Banking, FinanceWorks&#8482; powered by Quicken&#174;, Online Statements, Consumer Debit Cards, Business Debit Cards, Cash Back Rewards, personalized checks and instantly issued debit cards at account opening, telebanking, and automated teller services. Other special services include personalized checks at account opening, overdraft protection from a savings account, extended banking hours and commercial drive-up banking at many locations, automatic transfers and payments, wire transfers, direct payroll deposit, electronic tax payments, Automated Clearing House origination and receipt, remote deposit capture, merchant services, cash management programs to meet the specialized needs of business customers, annuity products, long term investment portfolios, and in some markets, courier agents who pick up noncash deposits from business customers. 

Other Services Provided through Affiliates: &#160; The Company sells and services employee benefit plans for small and medium sized businesses in Alaska through NBG, an insurance brokerage company. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we launched the Enroll Alaska initiative, a division of NBG, which works to bring insurance coverage under the Affordable Health Care Act to uninsured Alaskans. Our affiliate PWA provides investment advisory, trust, and wealth management services for customers who are primarily located in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska. We plan to continue to leverage our affiliate relationships to strengthen our existing customer base and bring new customers into the Bank. 

Significant Business Concentrations: &#32; &#160; No individual or single group of related accounts is considered material in relation to our total assets or total revenues, or to the total assets, deposits or revenues of the Bank, or in relation to our overall business. Based on classification by North American Industry Classification System, there are no segments that exceed 10% of portfolio loans, except for real estate (see Note 6, Loans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for a breakout of real estate loans). In addition to its review of NAICS codes, the Company has also identified concentrations in two specialized industries. We estimate that approximately 5% of portfolio loans have direct exposure to the oil and gas industry in Alaska and approximately 8% of portfolio loans are attributable to a combination of Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporations. Additionally, approximately 41% &#32;of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2015 &#32;is attributable to 27 &#32;large borrowing relationships. Moreover, our business activities are currently focused primarily in the state of Alaska. Consequently, our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the general trends in the Alaska economy and, in particular, the residential and commercial real estate markets in Anchorage, Juneau, Fairbanks, the Matanuska-Susitna Valley, Ketchikan, and Sitka. 

Home Mortgage Lending 

Lending Services: &#160; The Company originates 1-4 family residential mortgages throughout Alaska which we sell to the secondary market. Residential mortgage choices include several products from the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation including first-time homebuyer, veteran's and rural community programs; Federal Housing Authority, or "FHA" loans; Veteran's Affairs, or VA loans; Jumbo loans; and various conventional mortgages. The Company retains servicing rights on loans sold to the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation since implementing a new loan servicing program in July 2015. 

Alaska Economy 

Our growth and operations depend upon the economic conditions of Alaska and the specific markets we serve. Significant changes in the Alaska economy and the markets we serve eventually could have a positive or negative impact on the Company. Alaska is strategically located on the Pacific Rim, within nine hours by air from 95% of the industrialized world, and Anchorage has become a worldwide cargo and transportation link between the United States and international business in Asia and Europe. The economy of Alaska is dependent upon the natural resources industries. Key sectors of the Alaska economy are the oil industry, government and military spending, and the fishing, mining, tourism, air cargo, transportation, construction, and forest products industries, as well as medical services. The Company believes that the acquisition of Alaska Pacific Bank increases the Company's exposure in the tourism industry as Southeast Alaska is the primary destination for cruise ships that visit in Alaska. Based on information from Rain Coast Data, approximately one million cruise ship tourists visited Southeast Alaska in both 2013 and 2014. We believe our increased exposure to this industry diversifies the Company's larger exposure to natural resource industries, specifically oil and gas, in Alaska. 

The oil industry plays a significant role in the economy of Alaska. According to the State of Alaska Department of Revenue, in 2015 approximately 75% of the unrestricted revenues that funded the Alaska state government in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 were generated through various taxes and royalties on the oil industry. This is down from approximately 90% in the last several years due to a decrease in the price of oil, and the state of Alaska has used savings from previous years to fund its budget deficit. State revenues are sensitive to volatile oil prices and production levels have been in decline for over 20 years. As oil prices have stabilized at their current low levels, the reduction in various taxes and royalties on the oil industry is now a serious concern for state revenues as it is projected that Alaska's savings will be depleted within two years at current prices. If oil prices continue to decline or stabilize at low levels in the longer term, we anticipate it will be a serious concern for Alaska's long-term economic growth. However, we believe Alaska's economy is less sensitive to oil price volatility in the short term than Alaska's state government budget. While state government revenue from oil royalties is immediately and directly impacted by a drop in oil prices, we believe that the large scale and nature of oil wells in Alaska are such that project commitments that currently exist will most likely not be disrupted by short term price volatility. Accordingly, we believe that subcontractors who provide oil field services and transportation for the large, multi-national companies that produce oil in Alaska will most likely not experience a significant slowdown in revenues in 2016 as a result of the decrease in prices. Beyond 2016, however, the Company believes that these businesses could be significantly impacted by the decrease in prices. According to the Alaska Department of Labor, the State of Alaska experienced a $3.5 billion budget deficit in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 and is anticipating deficits in excess of $3 billion for future years at current oil prices. According to the State of Alaska, between the Permanent Fund and the Constitutional Budget Reserve, the State of Alaska has $58 billion in reserves, of which approximately $8 billion can be used to finance short term funding gaps. 

We believe the long-term growth of the Alaska economy will most likely be determined by large scale natural resource development projects. Several multi-billion dollar projects can potentially advance in the moderate term. Some of these projects include: a large diameter natural gas pipeline; continued related gas exploration at Point Thomson by ExxonMobil and partners that is currently underway; potential oil and gas activities in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; copper, gold and molybdenum production at the Donlin mine; and energy development in the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska. Because of their size, we believe each of these projects faces tremendous challenges. We believe contentious political decisions need to be made by government regulators, issues need to be resolved in the court system, and multi-billion dollar financial commitments need to be made by the private sector if they are to advance. If none of these projects moves forward in the next ten years, we believe state revenues will probably continue to decline with falling oil production from older fields on the North Slope of Alaska. We anticipate the decline in state revenues will likely have a negative effect on Alaska&#8217;s economy. 

Tourism is another major employment sector of the Alaska economy. In the summer period from May 1, 2015 to September 30, 2015, according to the State of Alaska&#8217;s Department of Commerce, revenue collected from bed taxes increased by between 6% and 8% in Anchorage, Fairbanks, Denali, Juneau, and Sitka and increased 15% in the Matanuska-Susitna Valley compared to the same period in 2014.. Additionally, the Department of Commerce reported that $1.78 million people visited Alaska between May and September 2015, which is a 7% increase as compared to the same period in 2014 and is also the highest total for out-of-state visitors to the State of Alaska since tracking of this statistic began in 1985. 

In the last several years, Alaska's economy has been stronger relative to many other states in the nation, due largely to a natural resources based economy which has benefited from high commodity and energy prices. According to the Treasury Division of Alaska Department of Revenue, as of October, 2015, Alaska's Statutory Budget Reserve Fund was liquidated and its assets were transferred to the General Fund. As of December 31, 2015, Alaska's Constitutional Budget Reserve is $8.7 billion. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;the Alaska Permanent Fund had a balance of $52.3 billion. The fund pays an annual dividend to every Alaskan citizen. According to a January 22, 2016 press release from the Alaska Department of Labor and Workforce Development, the seasonally adjusted unemployment rates in the United States and Alaska were 5.0% and 6.5%, respectively, in December 2015 . 

Prior to November 2014, the unemployment rate in Alaska had been lower than that of the United States as a whole since 2009. As general economic conditions in the United States have recovered over the past several years and oil prices have significantly declined, Alaska's unemployment rate now exceeds that of the United States as a whole. The Alaska Department of Labor predicts a loss of 2,500 jobs, or approximately 0.70%, in 2016. The Company does not anticipate that the estimated decrease in jobs in Alaska in 2016 will have a significant impact on its operating results; however, if oil prices remain low for an extended period of time, we expect that unemployment in Alaska could continue to increase in future years and negatively impact the Company's operations as early as 2017. 

A material portion of our loans at December 31, 2015 , were secured by real estate located in greater Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Valley, Fairbanks, and Southeast Alaska. 38% &#32;of our revenue was derived from the residential housing market in the form of loan fees and interest on residential construction and land development loans and income from RML. Real estate values generally are affected by economic and other conditions in the area where the real estate is located, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in tax and other laws, and other matters outside of our control. A decline in real estate values in the greater Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Valley, Fairbanks, and Southeast Alaska areas could significantly reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our real estate loans and could increase the likelihood of defaults under these loans. At December 31, 2015 , $329.5 million , or 34% , of our loan portfolio was represented by commercial loans in Alaska. Commercial loans generally have greater risk than real estate loans. 

Alaska&#8217;s residents are not subject to any state income or state sales taxes. For over 30 years, Alaska residents have received annual distributions payable in October of each year from the Alaska Permanent Fund Corporation, which is supported by royalties from oil production. The distribution was $2,072 per eligible resident in 2015 &#32;for an aggregate distribution of approximately $1.4 billion. The Anchorage Economic Development Corporation estimates that, for most Anchorage households, distributions from the Alaska Permanent Fund exceed other Alaska taxes to which those households are subject (primarily real estate taxes). 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive and concentrated banking environment. We compete not only with other commercial banks, but also with many other financial competitors, including credit unions (including Alaska USA Federal Credit Union, one of the nation&#8217;s largest credit unions), finance companies, mortgage banks and brokers, securities firms, insurance companies, private lenders, and other financial intermediaries, many of which have a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases, a national presence. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and capital than we do and offer products and services that are not offered by us. Our non-bank competitors also generally operate under fewer regulatory constraints, and in the case of credit unions, are not subject to income taxes. We estimate that credit unions in Alaska have a 40% share of total deposits held in banks and credit unions in these markets as of June 30, 2015. Changes in credit union regulations have eliminated the &#8220;common bond&#8221; of membership requirement and liberalized their lending authority to include business and real estate loans on par with commercial banks. The differences in resources and regulation may make it harder for us to compete profitably, to reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, to increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our financial condition and earnings. 

As our industry becomes increasingly dependent on and oriented toward technology-driven delivery systems, permitting transactions to be conducted by telephone, computer and the Internet, non-bank institutions are able to attract funds and provide lending and other financial services even without offices located in our primary service area. Some insurance companies and brokerage firms compete for deposits by offering rates that are higher than may be appropriate for the Company in relation to its asset and liability management objectives. However, we offer a wide array of deposit products and services and believe we can compete effectively through relationship based pricing and effective delivery of &#8220;Superior Customer First Service&#8221;. We also compete with full service investment firms for non-bank financial products and services offered by ECCM, ECIA and PWA. 

In the late 1980s, eight of the thirteen commercial banks and savings and loan associations in Alaska failed, resulting in the largest commercial banks gaining significant market share. Currently, there are seven commercial banks operating in Alaska. At June 30, 2015 , the date of the most recently available information, Northrim Bank had approximately an 11% share of the Alaska commercial bank deposits, 16% in the Anchorage area, 14% in Juneau, 14% in Sitka, 7% in Fairbanks, and 4% in Ketchikan. 

The following table sets forth market share data for the commercial banks having a presence in the greater Anchorage area as of June 30, 2015 , the most recent date for which comparative deposit information is available. 

Financial institution 

Number of branches 

Total deposits (in thousands) 

Market share of deposits 

Northrim Bank 

$927,946 

% 

Wells Fargo Bank Alaska 

3,188,279 

% 

First National Bank Alaska 

1,197,351 

% 

Key Bank 

611,021 

% 

Total 

$5,924,597 

% 

&#160; 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Company is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;) registered with and subject to examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;FRB&#8221;). The Company&#8217;s bank subsidiary is an Alaska-state chartered commercial bank and is subject to examination, supervision, and regulation by the Alaska Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development, Division of Banking, Securities and Corporations (the &#8220;Division&#8221;). The FDIC insures Northrim Bank&#8217;s deposits and also examines, supervises, and regulates Northrim Bank. The Company&#8217;s affiliated investment advisory and wealth management company, Pacific Portfolio Consulting LLC, is subject to and regulated under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940 and applicable state investment advisor rules and regulations. The Company&#8217;s affiliated trust company, Pacific Portfolio Trust Company, is regulated as a non-depository trust company under the trust company laws of the State of Washington and is subject to supervision and examination by the Department of Financial Institutions of Washington State. 

The Company&#8217;s earnings and activities are affected, among other things, by legislation, by actions of the FRB, the Division, the FDIC and other regulators, by local legislative and administrative bodies, and decisions of courts. These include limitations on the ability of Northrim Bank to pay dividends to the Company, numerous federal and state consumer protection laws imposing requirements on the making, enforcement, and collection of consumer loans, and restrictions on and regulation of the sale of mutual funds and other uninsured investment products to customers. 

As a result of the recent financial crisis, regulation of banks and the financial services industry has been undergoing major changes. Among these is the enactment in 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;). The Dodd-Frank Act significantly modifies and expands legal and regulatory requirements imposed on banks and other financial institutions. Some of these changes were effective immediately but others are being phased in over time. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various regulators, including the FRB and the FDIC, to adopt numerous regulations, not all of which have been finalized. Accordingly, not all of the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are yet known. 

The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly affected Northrim Bank and its business and operations. The federal prohibition on paying interest on demand accounts (such as checking accounts) for businesses was eliminated, which could adversely impact Northrim Bank&#8217;s interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor and deposit insurance assessments paid by Northrim Bank are now based on Northrim Bank&#8217;s total assets. Other Dodd-Frank Act changes include: (i) tightened capital requirements for Northrim Bank and the Company; (ii) new requirements on parties engaged in residential mortgage origination, brokerage, lending and securitization; (iii) expanded restrictions on affiliate and insider transactions; (iv) enhanced restrictions on management compensation and related governance procedures; (v) creation of a federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad authority to regulate consumer financial products and services; and (vi) restrictions and prohibitions on the ability of banking entities to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in or have certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds. 

&#160; 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the &#8220;GLB Act&#8221;), which was enacted in 1999, allows bank holding companies to elect to become financial holding companies, subject to certain regulatory requirements. In addition to the activities previously permitted bank holding companies, financial holding companies may engage in non-banking activities that are financial in nature, such as securities, insurance, and merchant banking activities, subject to certain limitations. The Company could utilize this structure to accommodate an expansion of its products and services in the future. 

Bank holding companies, such as the Company, are subject to a variety of restrictions on the activities in which they can engage and the acquisitions they can make. The activities or acquisitions of bank holding companies, such as the Company, that 

are not financial holding companies, are limited to those which constitute banking, managing or controlling banks or which are closely related activities. A bank holding company is required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB for the acquisition of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities or substantially all of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. Nonbank acquisitions and activities of a bank holding company are also generally limited to the acquisition of up to 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of a company and activities previously determined by the FRB by regulation or order to be closely related to banking, unless prior approval is obtained from the FRB. 

The GLB Act also included extensive consumer privacy provisions. These provisions, among other things, require full disclosure of the Company&#8217;s privacy policy to consumers and mandate offering the consumer the ability to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of having non-public personal information disclosed to third parties. Pursuant to these provisions, the federal banking regulators adopted privacy regulations. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the rule-making authority for the privacy provisions of the GLB Act has been transferred to the CFPB. In addition, the states are permitted to adopt more extensive privacy protections through legislation or regulation. 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which a bank holding company and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries can borrow or otherwise obtain credit from their banking subsidiaries or engage in certain other transactions with or involving those banking subsidiaries. With certain exceptions, federal law imposes limitations on, and requires collateral for, extensions of credit by insured depository institutions, such as Northrim Bank, to their non-bank affiliates, such as the Company. In addition, new capital rules may affect the Company's ability to pay dividends. 

Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, a bank holding company, with prior approval of the FRB, may acquire an out-of-state bank. Banks in states that do not prohibit out-of-state mergers may merge with the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency. A state bank may establish a de novo branch out of state if such branching is permitted by the other state for state banks chartered by such other state. 

Among other things, applicable federal and state statutes and regulations which govern a bank&#8217;s activities relate to minimum capital requirements, required reserves against deposits, investments, loans, legal lending limits, mergers and consolidations, borrowings, issuance of securities, payment of dividends, establishment of branches and other aspects of its operations. The Division and the FDIC also have authority to prohibit banks under their supervision from engaging in what they consider to be unsafe or unsound practices. 

There also are certain limitations on the ability of the Company to pay dividends to its shareholders. It is the policy of the FRB that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines a bank holding company&#8217;s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, the Alaska Corporations Code prohibits the Company from making any distributions to the Company's shareholders unless the amount of the retained earnings of the Company immediately before the distribution equals or exceeds the amount of the proposed distribution. The Alaska Corporations Code also prohibits the Company from making any distribution to the Company's shareholders if the Company or a subsidiary of the Company making the distribution is, or as a result of the distribution would be, likely to be unable to meet its liabilities as they mature. &#32; 

Various federal and state statutory provisions also limit the amount of dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies without regulatory approval. The FDIC or the Division could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. In addition, new capital rules may affect the Bank's ability to pay dividends. 

Under longstanding FRB policy and under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. The Company could be required to commit resources to its subsidiary banks in circumstances where it might not do so, absent such requirement. 

Both the Company and the Bank are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital. In July 2013, federal banking regulators (including the FDIC and the FRB) adopted new capital requirement rules (the &#8220;Rules&#8221;). The Rules apply to both depository institutions (such as the Bank) and their holding companies (such as the Company). The Rules reflect, in part, certain standards initially adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010 (which standards are commonly referred to as &#8220;Basel III&#8221;) as well as requirements contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Rules have applied to both the Company and the Bank since the beginning of 2015. 

The Rules recognize three types, or tiers, of capital: common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital generally consists of retained earnings and common stock instruments (subject to certain 

adjustments), as well as accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") except to the extent that the Company and the Bank exercise a one-time irrevocable option to exclude certain components of AOCI. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus subject to certain adjustments and limitations. Tier 2 capital generally includes certain capital instruments (such as subordinated debt) and portions of the amounts of the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain requirements and deductions. The term "Tier 1 capital" means common equity Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital, and the term "total capital" means Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital. 

The Rules generally measure an institution's capital using four capital measures or ratios. The common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the institution's common equity Tier 1 capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The Tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the institution's total capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The total capital ratio is the ratio of the institution's total capital to its total risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is the ratio of the institution's Tier 1 capital to its average total consolidated assets. To determine risk-weighted assets, assets of an institution are generally placed into a risk category and given a percentage weight based on the relative risk of that category. The percentage weights range from 0% to 1,250%. An asset's risk-weighted value will generally be its percentage weight multiplied by the asset's value as determined under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, certain off-balance-sheet items are converted to balance-sheet credit equivalent amounts, and each amount is then assigned to one of the risk categories. An institution's federal regulator may require the institution to hold more capital than would otherwise be required under the Rules if the regulator determines that the institution's capital requirements under the Rules are not commensurate with the institution's credit, market, operational or other risks. 

Both the Company and the Bank are required to have a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% as well as a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 6.0% and a total risk-based ratio of 8.0%. In addition to the preceding requirements, both the Company and the Bank are required to establish a &#8220;conservation buffer,&#8221; consisting of common equity Tier 1 capital, which is at least 2.5% above each of the preceding common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the Tier 1 risk-based ratio and the total risk-based ratio. An institution that does not meet the conservation buffer will be subject to restrictions on certain activities including payment of dividends, stock repurchases and discretionary bonuses to executive officers. 

The Rules set forth the manner in which certain capital elements are determined, including but not limited to, requiring certain deductions related to mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets. When the federal banking regulators initially proposed new capital rules in 2012, the rules would have phased out trust preferred securities as a component of Tier 1 capital. As finally adopted, however, the Rules permit holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009 (which includes the Company) to continue to include trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital, generally up to 25% of other Tier 1 capital. 

The Rules made changes in the methods of calculating certain risk-based assets, which in turn affects the calculation of risk- based ratios. Higher or more sensitive risk weights are assigned to various categories of assets, among which are commercial real estate, credit facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property, certain exposures or credits that are 90 days past due or are nonaccrual, foreign exposures, certain corporate exposures, securitization exposures, equity exposures and in certain cases mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets. 

Both the Company and the Bank were required to begin compliance with the Rules on January 1, 2015. The conservation buffer will be phased in beginning in 2016 and will take full effect on January 1, 2019. Certain calculations under the Rules will also have phase-in periods. We believe that the current capital levels of the Company and the Bank are in compliance with the standards under the Rules including the conservation buffer. 

In addition to the minimum capital standards, the federal banking agencies have issued regulations to implement a system of "prompt corrective action." These regulations apply to the Bank but not the Company. The regulations establish five capital categories; under the Rules, a bank is: 

&#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 6.5% or more, and a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or more, and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; 

&#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or more, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 4.5% or more, and a leverage capital ratio of 4.0% or more; 

&#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio less than 6.0%, a common equity risk-based ratio less than 4.5% or a leverage capital ratio less than 4.0%; 

&#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio less than 4.0%, a common equity risk-based ratio less than 3.0% or a leverage capital ratio less than 3.0%; and 

&#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. 

A bank that, based upon its capital levels, is classified as &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment. 

At each successive lower capital category, a bank is subject to increasing supervisory restrictions. For example, being &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; rather than &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; affects a bank&#8217;s ability to accept brokered deposits without the prior approval of the FDIC, and may cause greater difficulty obtaining retail deposits. Banks in the &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; classification may have to pay higher interest rates to continue to attract those deposits, and higher deposit insurance rates for those deposits. This status also affects a bank&#8217;s eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. 

Management intends to maintain capital ratios for the Bank in 2016 &#32;that exceed the FDIC&#8217;s new requirements for the &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; capital requirement classification under the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules which took effect for the Company on January 1, 2015. The dividends that the Bank pays to the Company will be limited to the extent necessary for the Bank to meet the regulatory requirements of a &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; bank. 

The capital ratios for the Company exceed those for Northrim Bank primarily because the $18 million trust preferred securities offerings that the Company completed in the second quarter of 2003 and in the fourth quarter of 2005 are included in the Company&#8217;s capital for regulatory purposes, although they are accounted for as a liability in its consolidated financial statements. The trust preferred securities are not accounted for on the Bank&#8217;s financial statements nor are they included in its capital (although the Company did contribute to the Bank a portion of the cash proceeds from the sale of those securities). As a result, the Company has $18 million more in regulatory capital than the Bank at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014, which explains most of the difference in the capital ratios for the two entities. 

Northrim Bank is required to file periodic reports with the FDIC and the Division and is subject to periodic examinations and evaluations by those regulatory authorities. These examinations must be conducted every 12 months, except that certain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; banks may be examined every 18 months. The FDIC and the Division may each accept the results of an examination by the other in lieu of conducting an independent examination. 

In the liquidation or other resolution of a failed insured depository institution, claims for administrative expenses (including certain employee compensation claims) and deposits are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims, including non-deposit claims, and claims of a parent company such as the Company. Such priority creditors would include the FDIC, which succeeds to the position of insured depositors to the extent it has made payments to such depositors. 

The Company is also subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Securities Exchange Act of 1934&#8221;), including certain requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Northrim Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;). The CRA requires that Northrim Bank help meet the credit needs of the communities it serves, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The FDIC assigns one of four possible ratings to Northrim Bank&#8217;s CRA performance and makes the rating and the examination reports publicly available. The four possible ratings are outstanding, satisfactory, needs to improve and substantial noncompliance. A financial institution&#8217;s CRA rating can affect an institution&#8217;s future business. For example, a federal banking agency will take CRA performance into consideration when acting on an institution&#8217;s application to establish or move a branch, to merge or to acquire assets or assume liabilities of another institution. In its most recent CRA examination, Northrim Bank received a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating from the FDIC. 

The Company is also subject to the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA PATRIOT Act&#8221;). Among other things, the USA Patriot Act requires the 

Company and Northrim Bank to adopt and implement specific policies and procedures designed to prevent and defeat money laundering. Management believes the Company is in compliance with the USA Patriot Act as in effect on December 31, 2015 . 

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as well as its current reports Form 8-K and proxy statement filings (and all amendments thereto), which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), are accessible free of charge at our website at http://www.northrim.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. By making this reference to our website, the Company does not intend to incorporate into this report any information contained in the website. The website should not be considered part of this report. 

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. 

