 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

We are a Minnesota corporation organized in December 1990, filing annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, who file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

GENERAL 

We are an Electronic Manufacturing Services ("EMS") company with our headquarters in Maple Grove, Minnesota, a suburb of Minneapolis, Minnesota. We maintain facilities and operations in Minnesota and Wisconsin in the United States; Monterrey, Mexico; and Suzhou, China. We offer a full range of value-added engineering, technical and manufacturing services and support including project management, design, testing, prototyping, manufacturing, supply chain management and post-market services. Our manufacturing and engineering services include complete medical devices, printed circuit board assemblies, wire and cable assemblies, and complex higher level electromechanical assemblies. The majority of our revenue is derived from products built to the customer's design specifications. 

Our breadth of manufacturing, technical expertise and experience make us attractive to our broad customer base. Our customers are original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in the Aerospace/Defense, Medical and Industrial/Commercial markets. The diversity in the markets we serve is an advantage in dealing with the effects of fluctuations from the economy and competition. In the design phase, we provide technical support, subject matter expertise in design for manufacturing and testing capabilities that allow our customer programs to get to production faster while meeting both their quality and cost requirements. Our customers rely on our experience and capabilities in manufacturing and supply chain to manage and reduce cost over the life cycle of their products. This requires a strong relationship with our customers based on a trusting partnership as we perform as an extension of their operations. 

BUSINESS SEGMENT 

All of our operations fall under the Contract Manufacturing segment within the EMS industry. We strategically direct production between our various manufacturing facilities based on a number of considerations to best meet our customers' needs. We share resources for sales, marketing, engineering, supply chain, information services, human resources, payroll, and all corporate accounting functions. Our financial information is consolidated and evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in assessing performance and allocating resources. 

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

The EMS industry has evolved into a dynamic, high-tech global electronics contract services industry. We continue to expand our capabilities and foot print to better meet these changing market requirements. Along with offering technical expertise in our quality processes, engineering design applications and testing, we are also increasing our focus on supplier-managed inventory services and the cost drivers throughout the global supply chain. Asia expansion is designed to support global customer base and provide competitive economic alternatives for the overall business health. 

We continue to pursue acquisitions, mergers, and/or joint ventures of companies in the EMS industry to increase our service offering, remain competitive, grow our customer base and increase revenues. Our strategic objectives and our history are based on both organic and acquired growth. 

Our quality systems and processes are based on International Standards Organization ("ISO") standards with all facilities certified to the latest version of the ISO 9001 and/or Aerospace Systems ("AS") 9100 standards. We also have ISO 13485 certification which recognizes our quality management systems applicable to 

contract design, manufacture and repair of assemblies for the medical industry. Our Milaca operation is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") registered facility. These certifications and registrations provide our customers assurance of our capabilities and proven processes. All of our facilities are certified to one or more of the ISO/AS standards, with most having additional certifications based on the needs of the customers they serve. 

We are committed to quality, cost effectiveness and responsiveness to customer requirements. To achieve these objectives we have invested in Restriction of Hazardous Substances (lead free) processing, equipment, plant capacity studies, people, enterprise resource planning systems, lean manufacturing and supply chain management techniques at our facilities. We are committed to continuous improvement and have invested in training our people to identify and act on improvement opportunities. We maintain a diversified customer base and expand into other capabilities and services when there is a fit with our core competencies and strategic vision. 

MARKETING 

We concentrate our marketing efforts in the Aerospace/Defense, Medical and Industrial markets. Our marketing strategy emphasizes our breadth, expertise and experience in each of our markets. Our expertise helps our customers save time and money and also reduces their risks. The breadth of our manufacturing, supply chain, engineering services and complete turnkey solutions assist our customers in getting their products to market quickly while managing the total cost solution. Our strength is managing low to moderate volume components and assemblies with high mix customer demand. This requires us to have close customer relationships and operational flexibility to manage the variation of product demands. 

Our customer emphasis continues to be on companies that require an electronic manufacturing partner with a high degree of manufacturing and quality sophistication, including statistical process control, statistical quality control, ISO standards, Military Specifications, AS 9100 and FDA facility registration. We continue efforts to penetrate our existing customer base and expand market opportunities with participation in industry forums and selected trade shows. We target customers who value proven manufacturing performance, design, project management and application engineering expertise and who value the flexibility to manage the supply chain of a high mix of products and services. We market our services through a mix of traditional marketing outreach, a specialized business development team and independent manufacturers' representatives. 

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS 

We currently purchase the majority of our electronic components directly from electronic component manufacturers and large electronic distributors. On occasion some of our components may be placed on a stringent allocation basis; however, we are not currently experiencing any major material purchasing or availability problems. 

MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

We have one customer that accounts for more than 10% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Their medical industry operations accounted for 18% and 23% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Their transportation industry operations accounted for 9% and 6% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

PATENTS AND LICENSES 

We are not presently dependent on a proprietary product requiring licensing, patent, copyright or trademark protection. We do not believe that patents, licenses, copyrights and trademark protection are necessary for successful operations. We believe the successful manufacture and sale of our products generally depends more on our technical expertise, trade secrets and manufacturing skills. 

COMPETITION 

The contract manufacturing EMS industry's competitive makeup includes small closely held contract manufacturing companies, large global full-service contract manufacturers, company-owned in-house manufacturing facilities and foreign contract manufacturers. We do not believe that the small closely held operations pose a significant competitive threat in the markets and customers we serve, as they generally do not have the complete manufacturing and engineering services or capabilities required by our target customers. We do believe the larger global full service and foreign manufacturers are more focused on higher volume customer engagements and we do not see them as our primary competition. We continue to see opportunities 

with OEM companies that have their own in-house electronic manufacturing capabilities as they evaluate their internal costs and investments against outsourcing to contract manufacturers. We do see trends of the low volume, high mix customer demand going to a regional supply base. This is a good fit with our US, Mexico and future Asian operations. We continue to study and investigate other regions and global alternatives to meet our competitive challenges and customer requirements. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

We perform research and development for customers on an as requested and program basis for development of conceptual engineering and design activities prior to manufacturing the products. We did not expend significant dollars in 2015 or 2014 on company-sponsored product research and development. 

ENVIRONMENTAL LAW COMPLIANCE 

We believe that our manufacturing facilities are currently operating under compliance with local, state, and federal environmental laws. We have incurred, and plan to continue incurring, the necessary expenditures we deem necessary for compliance with applicable laws. Any environmental-oriented equipment is capitalized and depreciated over a seven-year period. The annualized depreciation expense for this type of environmental equipment is insignificant. Expenditures relating to compliance for operating facilities incurred in the past have not significantly affected our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

As a medical device manufacturer we have additional compliance requirements. We are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation ("QSR") requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections and product field monitoring by the FDA. 

EMPLOYEES 

We have 740 full-time and 101 part-time/temporary employees as of January 31, 2016. Manufacturing personnel, including direct, indirect support and sales functions, comprise 812 employees, while general administrative employees total 29. At January 31, 2015 we had 700 full-time and 113 part-time/temporary employees. 

FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES 

We have a leased manufacturing facility in Monterrey, Mexico with approximately $1,185,000 in long-term assets at December 31, 2015. We also have a leased manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China and expect to begin operations in the first half of 2016. Export sales represented 13% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

