 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Our principal business is the development, licensing and protection of our intellectual property assets. We presently own twenty-seven (27) patents including (i) the remote power patent ("Remote Power Patent") covering the delivery of power over Ethernet (PoE) cables for the purpose of remotely powering network devices, such as wireless access ports, IP phones and network based cameras; (ii) the Mirror Worlds patent portfolio (the "Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio") relating to foundational technologies that enable unified search and indexing, displaying and archiving of documents in a computer system; (iii) the Cox patent portfolio (the "Cox Patent Portfolio") relating to enabling technology for identifying media content on the Internet and taking further action to be performed based on such identification; and (iv) the QoS patents (the "QoS Patents") covering systems and methods for the transmission of audio, video and data in order to achieve high quality of service (QoS) over computer and telephony networks. In addition, we continually review opportunities to acquire or license additional intellectual property.

We have been actively engaged in the licensing of our Remote Power Patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,218,930) . &#160; As of March 1, 2016, we have entered into twenty (20) license agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent which, among others, include

&#160;

license agreements with Cisco Systems, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Netgear, Inc., Microsemi Corporation, Motorola Solutions, Inc. , NEC Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd and ShoreTel, Inc. (see Notes J[3] and J[4] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). Our current strategy includes continuing our licensing efforts with respect to our Remote Power Patent and monetizing the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio and Cox Patent Portfolio which we acquired in 2013 (see "Business &#8211; Cox Patent Portfolio - Patents Related to Identification of Media on the Internet" and "Business &#8211; Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio - Patents Covering Document Stream Operating Systems" on pages 6 - 7 of this Annual Report). In November 2015, we entered into a license agreement with Microsoft Corporation with respect to our Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio (see "Legal Proceedings" at page 25 hereof). In addition, we continue to seek to acquire additional intellectual property assets to develop, commercialize, license or otherwise monetize such intellectual property. Our strategy includes working with inventors and patent owners to assist in the development and monetization of their patented technologies. We may also enter into strategic relationships with third parties to develop, commercialize, license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. The form of such relationships may differ depending upon the opportunity and may include, among other things, a strategic investment in such third party, the provision of financing to such third party or the formation of a joint venture with such third party or others for the purpose of monetizing their intellectual property assets.

Our acquisition strategy is to focus on acquiring high quality patents which management believes have the potential to generate significant licensing opportunities as we have achieved with respect to our Remote Power Patent. Our Remote Power Patent has generated licensing revenue in excess of $82,000,000 from May 2007 through December 31, 2015. As part of our acquisition strategy, in 2013 we acquired an aggregate of thirteen (13) additional patents and six pending patent applications. On February 28, 2013, we acquired from Dr. Ingemar Cox, a technology leader in digital watermarking content identification, digital rights management and related technologies, four U.S. patents (as well as a pending patent application) (these patents, the patent application and subsequently issued related patents are hereinafter referred to as the "Cox Patent Portfolio"). Since acquisition of the Cox Patent Portfolio, we have been issued seven additional patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") within the Cox Patent Portfolio. On May 21, 2013, Mirror Worlds Technologies, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired from Mirror Worlds, LLC (which subsequently changed its name to Looking Glass LLC) nine U.S. patents and five pending patent applications (one of which was issued in November 2013) that enable unified search and indexing, displaying and archiving of documents in a computer system (these patents, the pending patent applications and subsequently issued related patents hereinafter referred to as the "Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio").

We currently have several pending litigations for infringement of our Remote Power Patent, the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio and the Cox Patent Portfolio (see "Legal Proceedings" at pages 25-29 of this Annual Report). In addition, certain patents within our Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio and Cox Patent Portfolios are currently being challenged at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) (see "Legal Proceedings" at pages 25-28 hereof.

&#160;

Our Patents

Our intellectual property currently consists of twenty-seven (27) patents as follows:

Remote Power Patent

Patent covering the delivery of power over Ethernet cables for the purpose of remotely powering network devices such as wireless access ports, IP phones and network based cameras.

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,218,930 : Apparatus And Method For Remotely Powering Access Equipment Over A 10/100 Switched Ethernet Network ; 

The Remote Power Patent expires in March 2020.

Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio

Patents covering foundational technologies that enable unified search and indexing, displaying and archiving of documents in a computer system.

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,006,227 : Document Stream Operating System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,638,313 :Document Stream Operating System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,725,427 : Document Stream Operating System With Document Organizing And Display Facilities; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No 6,496,857 : Delivering Targeted, Enhanced Advertisements Across Electronic Networks; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,768,999 : Enterprise, Stream, Information Management System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 7,865,538 : Desktop, Stream-Based, Information Management System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 7,849,105 : Desktop, Stream-Based, Information Management System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,255,439 : Desktop, Stream-Based, Information Management System; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,280,931 : Desktop, Stream-Based, Information Management System; and 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,572,139 : Desktop, Stream-Based, Information Management System. 

The expiration dates of the patents within the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio range from June 2016 to February 2020.

&#160;

&#160;

Cox Patent Portfolio

Identification of Media Content on the Internet

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 7,058,223: &#160; Identifying W orks For I nitiating A &#160; W ork- B ased A ction, Such As An Action On The Internet; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,010,998: Using F eatures E xtracted F rom A n A udio A nd/ O r V ideo W ork T o O btain I nformation A bout T he W ork; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,020,187: Identifying W orks, U sing A &#160; S ub- L inear T ime S earch O r A &#160; N on E xhaustive S earch, F or I nitiating A &#160; W ork- B ased A ction, S uch A s A n A ction O n T he Internet; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,205,237: Identifying Works , U sing A &#160; S ub- L inear T ime S earch, S uch A s A n A pproximate N earest N eighbor S earch, F or I nitiating A &#160; W ork- B ased A ction, S uch A s A n A ction O n T he Internet; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,640,179: &#160; Method F or U sing E xtracted F eatures F rom A n E lectronic W ork; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,656,441: &#160; Systems F or U sing E xtracted F eatures F rom A n E lectronic W ork; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,782,726: Method F or T aking A ction B ased O n A &#160; R equest R elated T o A n E lectronic M edia W ork ; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,904,464: &#160; Method For Tagging An Electronic Media Work To Perform Action; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 8,904,465 : System For Taking Action Based On A Request Related To An Electronic Media Work; and 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 9,256,885: Method for Linking an Electronic Media Work To Perform an Action. 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 9,282,359: System and Method for Taking Action with Respect to a Media Work From a Second Device. 

The expiration dates of the patents within the Cox Patent Portfolio range from September 2021 to November 2023. We currently have five pending patent applications with the USPTO relating to the Cox Patent Portfolio.

&#160;

&#160;

QoS Patents

Transmission of Audio, Video and Data

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,574,242 : Method F or T he T ransmission A nd C ontrol O f A udio, V ideo, A nd C &#160; D ata O ver A &#160; S ingle N etwork F abric; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,570,890 : Method F or T he T ransmission A nd Control &#160; O f A udio, V ideo, A nd C omputer D ata O ver A &#160; S ingle N etwork F abric U sing Ethernet P ackets; 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,539,011 : Method F or I nitializing A nd A llocating B andwidth I n A &#160; P ermanent V irtual C onnection F or T he T ransmission A nd C ontrol O f A udio, V ideo, A nd C omputer D ata O ver A &#160; S ingle N etwork F abric; and 

&#9679; &#160; U.S. Patent No. 6,215,789 : Local A rea N etwork F or T he T ransmission A nd C ontrol O f A udio, V ideo, A nd C omputer D ata. 

The expiration date for the patents within the QoS family of patents is June 2019. In August 2008, we were issued European Patent No. 1086556 titled "Integrated Voice and Data Communications over a Local Area Network" which covers the same technology as covered by our QoS Patents. The patent has issued in France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada.

Our future success is largely dependent upon our proprietary technologies, our ability to protect our intellectual property assets and to consummate license agreements with respect to our intellectual property assets as well as our ability to acquire additional intellectual property assets or enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. The complexity of patent law and the inherent uncertainty of litigation creates risks that our efforts to protect our intellectual property assets, or those of our strategic partners, may not be successful. We cannot be assured that our intellectual property assets will be upheld, or that third parties will not invalidate such intellectual property assets. In addition, we may not be able to (i) acquire additional intellectual property assets or successfully license such assets or (ii) successfully enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property.

Remote Power Patent &#8211; Market Overview

Our Remote Power Patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,218,930) relates to several technologies which describe a methodology for controlling the delivery of power to certain devices over an Ethernet network.

The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is a non-profit, technical professional association of more than 370,000 individual members in approximately 160 countries. The Standards Association of the IEEE is responsible for the creation of global industry standards for a broad range of technology industries. In 2000, at the urging of several industry vendors, the IEEE formed a task force to facilitate the adoption of a standardized methodology for the delivery of remote power over Ethernet networks which would insure interoperability among vendors of switches and terminal devices. On June 13, 2003 , the IEEE Standards Association approved the 802.3af Power over Ethernet standard (the "Standard"), which covers technologies deployed in delivering power over 

&#160;

Ethernet networks. The Standard provides for the Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE) to be deployed in switches or as standalone midspan hubs to provide power to remote devices such as wireless access points, IP phones and network-based cameras. The technology is commonly referred to as Power over Ethernet ("PoE"). In 2009, the IEEE Standards Association approved 802.3 at, a new PoE standard which, among other things, increased the available power for delivery over Ethernet networks. We believe that our Remote Power Patent covers several of the key technologies covered by both the 802.3af and 802.3at standards . 

Ethernet is the leading local area networking technology in use today. PoE technology allows for the delivery of PoE cables rather than by separate power cords. As a result, a variety of network devices, including IP telephones, wireless LAN Access Points, web-based network security cameras, data collection terminals and other network devices, are able to receive power over existing data cables without the need to modify the existing infrastructure to facilitate the provision of power for such devices through traditional AC outlets. Advantages such as lower installation costs, remote management capabilities, lower maintenance costs, centralized power backup, and flexibility of device location as well as the advent of worldwide power compatibility, led to PoE becoming widely adopted in networks throughout the world.

PoE provides numerous benefits including quantifiable returns on investment. The cost of hiring electricians to pull power cables to remote locations used for access points or security cameras can rival or exceed the cost of the devices. Another key benefit is the need for Voice over IP power reliability in the face of power failures. Using PoE enables data center power supply systems to ensure ongoing power &#8211; a function that would be difficult and expensive to implement if each phone required AC outlets.

These and other advantages such as remote management capabilities, lower maintenance costs, and flexibility of device location have resulted in PoE technology being widely adopted in networks throughout the world. The benefits of PoE are compelling as evidenced by the introduction of products by such leading vendors such as Cisco Systems, Foundry Networks, Extreme Networks, 3Com, Siemens, Nortel Networks and Avaya, as well as many others.

Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio - Patents Covering Document Stream Operating Systems

On May 21, 2013, Mirror Worlds Technologies, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired all of the patents previously owned by Mirror Worlds, LLC (which subsequently changed its name to Looking Glass LLC), consisting of nine issued United States patents and five pending applications (one of which was issued in November 2013) covering foundational technologies that enable unified search and indexing, displaying and archiving of documents in a computer system. As consideration for the acquisition of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio, we paid Mirror Worlds, LLC $3,000,000 in cash, and issued 5-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,750,000 shares of our common stock (875,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.40 per share and 875,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.10 per share).

In June 2014, we repurchased from Looking Glass LLC for $505,000 all of the aforementioned warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,750,000 shares of our common stock. In November 2013, we received a new patent (U.S. Patent No. 8,572,139) from the USPTO entitled "Desktop Streamed-Based, Information Management System". This new patent issuance related to one of the pending applications acquired as part of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio in May 2013.

&#160;

The inventions relating to document stream operating systems covered by the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio resulted from the work done by Yale University computer scientist , Professor David Gelernter , and his then graduate student , Dr . Eric Freeman, in the mid - 1990s. Certain aspects of the technologies developed by David Gelernter were commercialized in their company's product offering called "Scopeware." Technologies embodied in Scopeware are now common in various computer and web-based operating systems. Professor Gelernter and Dr. Freeman each entered into consulting agreements with us as part of our acquisition of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio. Professor Gelernter and Dr. Freeman are currently associated with Lifestreams Technologies Corporation ("Lifestreams"), a company that develops next generation applications and methodologies aimed at organizing and displaying digital data. Lifestreams is a licensee of our Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio.

As part of the acquisition of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio, we also entered into an agreement with Recognition Interface, LLC ("Recognition"), an entity &#160; that financed the commercialization of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio prior to its sale to Mirror Worlds, LLC and also retained an interest in the licensing proceeds of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement with us, Recognition received (i) 5-year warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of our common stock at $1.40 per share, and (ii) 5-year warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of our common stock at $2.10 per share. Recognition also was granted the right to designate one member of the Board of Directors of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Mirror Worlds Technologies, LLC, that consists of three members. Recognition's initial Board designee was Frank Weil, Chairman of Abacus and Associates, Inc., a private investment firm in New York, New York. Mr. Weil headed the International Trade Administration of the United States Department of Commerce from 1977-1979. He was Chairman of the Finance Committee and Chief Financial Officer of the investment firm of Paine Webber Inc. from 1972-1977. Mr. Weil first met Professor Gelernter in the mid 1990's and assisted in the early development and financing of Mirror Worlds and its Scopeware product offering.

Recognition also received from us an interest in the net proceeds realized from our monetization of the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio as follows: (i) 10% of the first $125 million of net proceeds ; (ii) 15% of the next $125 million of net proceeds ; and (iii) 20% of any portion of the net proceeds in excess of $250 million.

In addition, in connection with our agreement with Recognition, Abacus and Associates, Inc., an entity affiliated with Recognition, received a 60-day warrant to purchase 500,000 shares of our common stock at $2.05 per share (the "60 Day Warrant"). In accordance with the Recognition Agreement, as a result of the exercise of the 60 Day Warrant on July 22, 2013 and the Company's receipt of the aggregate exercise price of $1,250,000, we issued to Recognition additional 5-year warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of our common stock consisting of (i) warrants to purchase 125,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.40 per share and (ii) warrants to purchase 125,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.10 per share.

&#160;

&#160;

Cox Patent Portfolio - Patents Related to Identification of Media Content on the Internet

On February 28, 2013, we acquired from Dr. Ingemar Cox four patents (as well as a pending patent application) pertaining to enabling technology for identifying media content on the Internet (the "Cox Patent Portfolio") for a purchase price of $1,000,000 in cash and 403,226 shares of our common stock. In addition, we are obligated to pay Dr. Cox 12.5% of the net proceeds generated by us from licensing, sale or enforcement of the Cox Patent Portfolio. Dr. Cox provides consulting services to us with respect to the Cox Patent Portfolio and future patent applications and assists our efforts to develop the patent portfolio . 

The Cox Patent Portfolio, currently consisting of eleven (11) patents, relates to enabling technology for identifying media content on the Internet, such as audio and video, and taking further action to be performed based on such identification. &#160; The &#160; patents within our Cox Patent Portfolio are based on a patent application filed in 2000 and have patent terms extending into 2023. Since the acquisition of the Cox Patent Portfolio in February 2013, we have filed twelve additional patent applications (seven of which have been issued and five of which are pending) relating to the Cox Patent Portfolio. The claims in these five additional patents are generally directed towards systems and methods for using extracted features from electronic works to identify actions to be performed.

There has been significant growth in the uploading of media content to the Internet over the past decade. We plan on further developing the technology with Dr. Cox and pursuing licensing opportunities for these technologies.

Dr. Cox is currently a Professor at the University of Copenhagen and University College London where he is head of its Media Futures Group. Dr. Cox was formerly a member of the Technical Staff at AT&#38;T Bell Labs and a Fellow at NEC Research Institute. He is a Fellow of the ACM, IEEE, the IET (formerly IEE), and the British Computer Society and is a member of the UK Computing Research Committee. He was founding co-editor in chief of the IEE Proc. On Information Security and was an associate editor of the IEEE Trans. on Information Forensics and Security. He is co-author of a book entitled "Digital Watermarking" and its second edition "DigitalWatermarking and Steganography". He is an inventor on forty (40) United States Patents.

QoS Patents

We also own five additional patents as part of our QoS Patents, covering various methodologies that provide for allocating bandwidth and establishing QoS for delay sensitive data, such as voice, on packet data networks. QoS issues become important when data networks carry packets that contain audio and video which may require priority over data packets traveling over the same network. Covered within these patents are also technologies that establish bi-directional communications control channels between network-connected devices in order to support advanced applications on traditional data networks. We believe that potential licensees of the technologies contained in these patents would be vendors deploying applications that require the low latency transport of delay sensitive data such as video over data networks.

&#160;

Patent Acquisitions or Strategic Relationships

We continually seek to acquire additional intellectual property assets in order to develop, commercialize, license or otherwise monetize such intellectual property. In May 2013, we acquired thirteen (13) additional patents as a result of the acquisitions of the Cox Patent Portfolio and the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio (see Note H[2] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). Since May 2013, we have been issued eight new patents from the USPTO pertaining to our Mirror Worlds and Cox Patent Portfolios. In addition, as of March, 1, 2016, we had five pending patent applications related to our Cox Patent Portfolio. We continually review opportunities to acquire or license additional intellectual property assets from individual inventors, technology companies and others for the purpose of pursuing licensing opportunities related to our existing intellectual property portfolio or otherwise. In addition, we may enter into strategic relationships with such parties to develop, commercialize, license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. The form of such relationships may vary depending upon the opportunity and may include, among other things, a strategic investment in such third party, the provision of financing to such third party or the formation of a joint venture for the purpose of monetizing such third party's intellectual property assets.

Network-1 Strategy

Our strategy is to capitalize on our intellectual property assets by entering into licensing arrangements with third parties including manufacturers and users that utilize our intellectual property's proprietary technologies as well as any additional proprietary technologies covered by patents which may be acquired by us in the future. Our current acquisition strategy is to focus on acquiring high quality patents which management believes have the potential to generate significant licensing opportunities as has been the case with our Remote Power Patent. Our Remote Power Patent has generated licensing revenue in excess of $82,000,000 from May 2007 through December 31, &#160; 2015. In addition, we may enter into third party strategic relationships with inventors and patent owners to assist in the development and monetization of their patent technologies.

In connection with our activities relating to the protection of our intellectual property assets, or the intellectual property assets of third parties with whom we have strategic relationships in the future, it may be necessary to assert patent infringement claims against third parties whom we believe are infringing our patents or those of our strategic partners. We are currently involved in several litigations to protect our patents including our Remote Power Patent, the Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio and the Cox Patent Portfolio (see "Legal Proceedings" at pages 25-29 hereof). We have in the past successfully asserted litigation to protect our Remote Power Patent and have also been successful in defending proceedings at the USPTO challenging the validity of our Remote Power Patent (see "Legal Proceedings" at page 29 of this Annual Report).

&#160;

&#160;

Licensing &#8211; Remote Power Patent

To date we have entered into twenty (20) license agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent. Fourteen (14) of the twenty (20) license agreements are royalty bearing (either on a quarterly or annual basis) for the life of the Remote Power Patent (March 2020). Licensees of our Remote Power Patent include major data network equipment manufacturers and others as follows:

&#183; &#160; Cisco Systems, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Motorola Solutions, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Microsemi Corporation 

&#183; &#160; NEC Corporation 

&#183; &#160; Extreme Networks, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Adtran, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd 

&#183; &#160; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd 

&#183; &#160; Netgear, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Allied Telesis, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Transition Networks, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Enterasys Networks, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; GarretCom, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Foundry Networks, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Shoretel, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; SEH Technology, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; D-Link Corporation and D-Link Systems, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Buffalo Technology (USA), Inc. 

&#183; &#160; BRG Precision Products, Inc. 

&#183; &#160; Zebra Technologies Corporation 

We believe that additional potential licensees for our Remote Power Patent include, among others, Wireless Local Area Networking (WLAN) equipment manufacturers, Local Area Networking (LAN) equipment manufacturers, Voice Over IP Telephony (VOIP) equipment manufacturers, and network camera manufacturers.

Cisco License Agreement and July 2010 Settlement

In July 2010, we settled our patent litigation pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, against Adtran, Inc, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco-Linksys, LLC, (collectively, "Cisco"), Enterasys Networks, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Foundry Networks, Inc., and 3Com Corporation, Inc. As part of the settlement, Adtran, Cisco, Enterasys, Extreme Networks and Foundry Networks each entered into a settlement agreement with us and entered into non-exclusive licenses for our Remote Power Patent (the "Licensed Defendants"). Under the terms of the licenses, the Licensed Defendants paid us aggregate payments of approximately $32 million upon settlement and also agreed to license our Remote Power Patent for its full term, which expires in March 2020. In accordance with our Settlement and License Agreement, dated May 25, 2011 (the "Agreement"), which expanded upon the July 2010 agreement, Cisco is obligated to pay us royalties (which began in the first quarter of 2011) based on its sales of PoE products up to maximum royalty payments per year of $8 million through 2015 and $9 million per year thereafter for the remaining term of the patent. The royalty payments are subject to certain conditions including the continued validity of our Remote Power Patent, and the actual royalty amounts received may be less than the caps stated above. Under the terms of the Agreement, if we grant other licenses with lower royalty rates to third 

&#160;

parties (as defined in the Agreement), Cisco shall be entitled to the benefit of the lower royalty rates provided it agrees to the material terms of such other license. Due to our annual royalty rate structure with Cisco which includes declining rates as the volume of PoE product sales increase during the year, royalties from Cisco are anticipated to be highest in the first quarter of the calendar year and decline for each of the remaining calendar quarters of the year. However, in 2014 we had greater revenue from Cisco in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter because we recorded additional revenue from Cisco in the second quarter as a result of our audit of Cisco for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 (see below and Note L to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). Under the terms of the Agreement, we have certain obligations to Cisco and if we materially breach such terms, Cisco will be entitled to stop paying royalties to us. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Significant Licensees

For the year ended December 31, 2015, Cisco accounted for 51% of our revenue and Microsoft Corporation accounted for 28% of our revenue. It is anticipated that one or a few of our licensees will continue to constitute a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future.

Legal Representation

Russ, August &#38; Kabat provides legal services to us with respect to our pending patent litigations filed in April 2014 and December 2014 &#160; against Google Inc. and YouTube LLC in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York relating to certain patents within our Cox Patent Portfolio (see "Legal Proceedings" at pages 25-26 of this Annual Report). The terms of our agreement with Russ, August &#38; Kabat provide for legal fees on a full contingency basis ranging from 15% to 30% of the net recovery (after deduction of expenses) depending on the stage of the proceeding in which the result (settlement or judgment) is achieved. We are responsible for all of the expenses incurred with respect to this litigation.

Dovel &#38; Luner, LLP provides legal services to us with respect to our patent litigation commenced in May 2013 against Apple, Inc., Microsoft, Inc. and other major vendors of document system software and computer systems in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division , for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,006,227 which is part of our Mirror Worlds Patent Portfolio (see Note J[2] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). The terms of our agreement with Dovel &#38; Luner LLP provide for legal fees on a contingency basis ranging from 25% to 40% of the net recovery (after deduction of expenses) depending upon the stage of proceeding in which a result (settlement or judgment) is achieved, subject to certain agreed upon contingency fee caps depending upon the amount of the net recovery. We are responsible for a certain portion of the expenses incurred with respect to the litigation. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company incurred contingent legal fees of $1,439,000 and expenses of $862,000 to Dovel &#38; Luner with respect to the litigation.

Dovel &#38; Luner, LLP provides legal services to us with respect to our pending patent litigation filed in September 2011 against sixteen (16) data networking equipment manufacturers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, relating to our Remote Power Patent (see Note J[3] to our financial statements 

&#160;

included in this Annual Report). The terms of our agreement with Dovel &#38; Luner LLP essentially provide for legal fees on a full contingency basis ranging from 12.5% to 35% of the net recovery (after deduction for expenses) depending on the stage of the proceeding in which a result (settlement or judgment) is achieved. We are responsible for a certain portion of the expenses incurred with respect to the litigation. During the year ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, we incurred legal fees and expenses of $745,000 and $239,000, respectively, to Dovel &#38; Luner LLP with respect to this matter . 

Dovel &#38; Luner, LLP also provided legal services to us with respect to our litigation settled in July 2010 against Cisco and several other major data networking equipment manufacturers relating to our Remote Power Patent (see Note J[4] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). The terms of our agreement with Dovel &#38; Luner, LLP provided for us to pay legal fees of up to a maximum aggregate cash payment of $1.5 million plus a contingency fee of up to 24% (based on the settlement being achieved at the trial stage). Accordingly, we have a continuing obligation to pay Dovel &#38; Luner LLP a contingency fee of 24% with respect to the ongoing royalties we receive from Cisco. During the year ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, we incurred total contingency fees and expenses of $2,157,000 and $2,691,000, respectively, to Dovel &#38; Luner, LLP with respect to this matter (which included legal fees of local counsel).

Competition

With respect to our ability to acquire additional intellectual property assets or enter into strategic relationships with third parties to monetize their intellectual property assets, we face considerable competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. The patent licensing and enforcement industry has grown over the past several years and there has been a material increase in the number of companies seeking to acquire intellectual property assets from third parties or to provide financing to third parties seeking to monetize their intellectual property. Entities including, among others, Acacia Research Corporation (NASDAQ:ACTG), Vringo, Inc. (NYSE MKT:VRNG), Intellectual Ventures, WiLan Inc. (NASDAQ:WILN), VirnetX Holdings Corp. (NYSE MKT:VHC), Marathon Patent Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:MARA) and RPX Corporation (NASDAQ:RPXC) , seek to acquire intellectual property or partner with third parties to license or enforce intellectual property rights. In addition, we also compete with strategic corporate buyers with respect to the acquisition of intellectual property assets. It is expected that others will enter this market as well. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than us.

We may also compete with litigation funding firms such as Burford Capital Limited, Fortress Investment Group, Gerchen Keller Capital, LLC, Parabellum Capital LLC and Betham Capital LLC, venture capital firms and hedge funds for intellectual property acquisitions and licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors also have greater financial resources and human resources than us.

The industries and markets covered by our intellectual property are characterized by intense competition and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements and technologies. Other companies may develop competing technologies that offer better or less expensive alternatives to PoE (covered by our Remote Power Patent) or the technologies covered by our other intellectual property assets. Such competing technologies may adversely impact our licensing revenue. Moreover, technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors or adopted by various standards groups could render our Remote Power Patent and our other intellectual property assets obsolete, less marketable or unenforceable.

&#160;

Regulatory Environment

If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. United States patent laws were amended by the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, referred to as the "America Invents Act", which became effective on March 16, 2013. The America Invents Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. In general, it attempts to address issues surrounding the enforceability of patents and the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for patent litigation and new administrative post-grant review procedures to challenge the patentability of issued patents outside of litigation, including Inter Partes Review (IPR) and Covered Business Method Review (CBM) proceedings which provide third parties a timely, cost effective alternative to district court litigation to challenge the validity of an issued patent. The America Invents Act and its implementation has increased the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of patent rights which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in July 1990. Our principal offices are located at 445 Park Avenue, Suite 912, New York, New York 10022 and our telephone number is (212) 829-5770. On October 9, 2013, we changed our name to Network-1 Technologies, Inc. (from Network-1 Security Solutions, Inc.) to better reflect the nature of our business as a company engaged in the development, licensing and protection of its intellectual property assets.

Available Information

We file or furnish various reports, such as registration statements, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other materials with the SEC. Our Internet website address is www.network-1.com . You may obtain, free of charge on our Internet website, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information we post on our website is intended for reference purposes only; none of the information posted on our website is part of this Annual Report or incorporated by reference herein.

In addition to the materials that are posted on our website, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The Internet address of the SEC's Internet site is http://www.sec.gov.

Employees and Consultants

&#160;

As of March 1, 2016, we had two full-time employees, one part-time employee and one consultant providing monthly services to us.

&#160;

