 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This periodic report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, business strategies, operating efficiencies or synergies, competitive positions, growth opportunities for existing products, plans and objectives of management. Statements in this periodic report that are not historical facts are hereby identified as &#147;forward-looking statements.&#148;

&#160;

Corporate History 

NU-MED PLUS, INC., a Utah corporation (&#147;NU-MED&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in October 2011 in the state of Utah as an early stage, emerging growth company, to develop, manufacture and market new technologies in the medical device field. NU-MED&#146;s immediate focus is on the creation of a nitric oxide powder formulation along with a hospital nitric oxide generator and a mobile rechargeable device to deliver nitric oxide gas. NU-MED is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah. 

EMERGING GROWTH COMPANY STATUS 

As part of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (&#147;JOBS ACT&#148;), companies with less than $1.0 billion in gross revenue can qualify as an &#147;emerging growth company.&#148; We will qualify as an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, and, as such, we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, (i) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic and annual reports, (iii) not being required to comply with certain new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and (iv) not being required to obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We intend to take advantage of the reduced disclosure obligations. Additionally, we will qualify as a &#147;Smaller Reporting Company&#148; and also have the advantage of not being required to provide the same level of disclosure as larger companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(2) of the Jobs Act, that allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.

We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed one billion dollars, (ii) the date that we become a &#147;large accelerated filer&#148; as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common units that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. At this time we expect to remain both a &#147;Smaller Reporting Company&#148; and &#147;Emerging Growth Company&#148; for the foreseeable future.

Business 

The mission of NU-MED is to design, develop, and market technologies in the medical device field. Our technologies will focus on market niches in high growth trend areas. We hope each developed technology will fill a current need in medical procedures by improving upon an existing technology or device, or by designing a device to serve a need that is clearly defined and acknowledged by medical professionals. 

NU-MED intends to become a medical device company principally engaged in the design, innovation, development, enhancement and commercialization of beginning, early, and selective later-stage quality medical devices. Our immediate focus is on the creation of a nitric oxide powder formulation, a hospital bedside nitric oxide generator and a mobile rechargeable device to deliver nitric oxide gas to offer solutions to hospitals, health systems and the medical community throughout the world. 

Prior to the founding of NU-MED PLUS, our core team Jeff Robins, William Moon, and Dr. Craig Morrison investigated, researched, and worked on initial formulations of a conceptual product to convert nitric oxide from a proprietary formulation to a gas used in the medical field. Based on our team&#146;s backgrounds in the field of mechanical engineering, chemistry and medicine it was determined a potential niche market existed and the conceptual proprietary product could possibly be created. From this initial research and some initial testing, our team believed we could create a mechanical device that could deliver nitric oxide to medical patients and use a new formulation of nitric oxide that, when combined with the new delivery device, could be accomplished in a more economical method than those currently in existence. Recognizing the experimental nature of the intended product and the time and money commitments to get such a product to market, the team spent almost a year working on various initial equipment and formulizations before determining they could not proceed further without some additional capital. From this realization of the need for capital, NU-MED PLUS was incorporated and an initial private placement was completed to raise capital to create a small lab and purchase equipment and chemicals to start working on testing the theories of the founding team. Even with almost a year of working on the proposed product and formulation, NU-MED recognizes the difficulty in developing a medical product and that other companies could expend far more resources on a similar solution and beat NU-MED to the market. Investors in NU-MED face tremendous risk and would be betting on current management and its development staff, who have not had prior success in developing and marketing medical products. Although management believes they are developing a unique and economical solution for nitric oxide delivery, management acknowledges they have not developed medical products before and all of their prior development work has been for other companies and this will be the first time management and their team have tried to do so without the support of a large organization and such organizations funding capabilities. Additionally, because of the lack of funding, several of the team members, including William Moon and the person assisting in helping to formulate a powder nitric oxide, Tom Tait, are acting in part-time capacity to NU-MED as they continue to work for other organizations that have the ability to pay them a salary. NU-MED has verified that all consultants and part-time employees are permitted to work on NU-MED&#146;s project without violating other employment commitments. Even with the ability to work on NU-MED&#146;s project, NU-MED&#146;s management team and consultants are not full time as they devote part of the time to other projects that have the ability to continue to pay salaries. 

The core of the product embodiment is the kinetically controlled release of nitric oxide from a chemical reaction. The mechanical means to deliver a metered dose to a patient is of secondary concern and will be addressed once the nitric oxide generation has been optimized. A research laboratory, completed in July 2012, has been equipped with the appropriate safety measures (negative pressure fume hood), nitric oxide analyzer, and standard lab ware to assess chemical reactions that produce nitric oxide. The initial goal is developing a kinetic control and be able to complete testing to optimize the process. Initial efforts are focusing on a proprietary mixture that will show the requisite parameters for generating nitric oxide in a controlled manner. Once this stage of development is complete, we will move forward with additional development of the delivery system. The optimization may take an unknown direction that will necessitate changes in the anticipated design of the mechanical delivery apparatus. Additionally, unforeseen delays can hamper development timelines. Management believes it will take some time before a product will be finalized and testing completed. Until a final product is completed and testing done, no assurance can be given that we will be able to complete the product or achieve the costs savings for the patient.

We have begun preliminary work on the delivery systems but do not believe such systems will be available for several years. Our initial goals from the delivery system development will be to obtain a prototype for internal testing and file for provisional patent protection. Due to the costs of testing and FDA approvals, we do not anticipate moving beyond our lab testing for at least the next year or longer. Additionally we would need to raise substantially more capital for further testing and hire third party laboratories to move beyond the initial development and testing phase. 

Products 

NU-MED PLUS will initially develop three distinct products. NU-MED products have not been fully developed; therefore we have not made any submission for FDA approval under any medical use nor do we anticipate any submittals for some time.

1.

Nitric oxide powder formulation.

2. A hospital generator device with controls and safety monitors built in that delivers inhaled nitric oxide to replace expensive pressurized canisters. This delivery system is intended for hospitals. The goal is to have a system that delivers a metered therapeutic dose (up to 200ppm) of nitric oxide via a ventilator. Unlike current delivery systems that use expensive tanks of nitric oxide, this product would use a self-contained generation system based on a chemical reaction. This approach not only allows an on-demand system but management hopes it will provide possible cost savings to patients requiring nitric oxide therapy and other possible diagnosis using very high purity nitric oxide gas. Safe guards such as concentration monitoring, flow and gas purity would be standard. 

3. A compact, mobile/portable rechargeable device to deliver inhaled nitric oxide gas. The portable system necessitates a design which can be deployed where a reliable source of power is not available or is difficult to access. The key feature will be a rechargeable battery pack that will power the unit for the full duration of a therapeutic session. It can be recharged using existing electricity supplies, a solar array or other alternative energy source. The unit will be designed as a low power but fully functional nitric oxide delivery system for inhalation therapy.

Nitric oxide is an extremely important bio-mediator in the human body that is produced from the amino acid l-arginine. Nitric oxide has anti-inflammatory properties, antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal properties which make it useful in certain medical treatments. At the present time inhaled nitric oxide (iNO ) is used as a selective vaso-dilator in infants. The only currently FDA approved use of nitric oxide at this time is Hypoxia in premature infants and newborn babies. Management is not aware of any other potential uses of nitric oxide that have been cleared by the FDA but this may change as new submittals are made. The heavy costs of delivering nitric oxide to patients have created limitations in the use of nitric oxide. As an additional motivation to reduce these costs, discoveries that have occurred since the first FDA approved use of nitric oxide in 1999 have led to new potential uses, which still need FDA approval, in a wide variety of diseases and health complications, including COPD, flu viruses, bacterial infections, tuberculosis, and much more. NU-MED hopes to take advantage of the expanding medical uses of nitric oxide and the current high costs of delivering nitric oxide by developing a new generated nitric oxide method that reduces the delivery costs. Given NU-MED&#146;s size, we do not anticipate being involved in any studies on new uses of nitric oxide and will rely on other parties to continue to advance the uses of nitric oxide.

The principal gas we aim to generate through our systems is medical grade nitric oxide, along with other various combinations of beneficial medical gases. Non-medical grade nitric oxide gas is produced and sold commercially by major gas companies as a specialty gas mixture and calibration gas. Nitrogen dioxide is present in all nitric oxide gas currently produced. Its presence limits the size of the dose of nitric oxide gas that can be administered for prospective uses in both humans and animals.

We hope to develop a proprietary compound formulation that will be utilized to produce medical grade nitric oxide gas in our hospital unit. Management believes that with the further refinement of our formulation, we can make and filter medical grade nitric oxide gas with minimal amounts of nitrogen dioxide, and that this process can produce medical grade nitric oxide gas in ample quantities for any current or prospective use and hopefully at a price less 

than that of all currently available technologies. Management believes the only approved and available medical grade nitric oxide source is a product named Inomax. Since this is a single source market there is no price competition and price is set at a "market can bear" level. We believe, given this structure, there is ample room for a competitive response from NU-MED using on site generated nitric oxide at a lower cost to penetrate the market. The cost of materials and labor for the NU-MED product is anticipated to be low, providing attractive margins. Our product must have a known shelf life and be available in various configurations to yield known concentrations and volumes of gas. Packaging is a critical developmental process that we will address after completion of our formulation. 

We approximate that non-clinical laboratory sales could take place earlier than United States Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) approval. Management anticipates that selling our units earlier into the market as laboratory equipment or to international groups will pave the way for sales of our medical generators and formulation, but any financial contributions from intellectual property licenses and sales, non-medical generator and formulation sales will not be adequate to fund the substantial costs of the FDA approval process for human medical uses. Even with sales to laboratories or other uses, we will require additional funding, which we currently do not have in place and cannot say that we will be able to obtain, or to obtain at acceptable rates. 

All human medical uses of nitric oxide gas require FDA approval prior to initiating sales in the United States and the approval of similar international agencies in their respective countries. Approval can be a long and expensive process, with no assurance that any such approval can or will ever be obtained. Our products from the compound formulation for nitric oxide to our delivery machine will have to be approved by the FDA prior to any sales for human use. Although the FDA can approve &#147;uses&#148; for nitric oxide and such uses can be expanded, our products, both the formulations and equipment, would also have to be approved to be used in association with the treatment using nitric oxide. Accordingly, although the &#147;uses&#148; of nitric oxide such as its use for hypoxia in newborns is already approved by the FDA, we still would need to have our machine and compound approved by the FDA for such treatment. Although having the &#147;use&#148; of nitric oxide would reduce our overall costs as we would not have to prove the efficacy of the treatment but only that our product and compounds are &#147;substantially equivalent&#148; to those already approved by the FDA. Even this level of approval still requires time and costs and creates additional uncertainty as to our ability to bring a product to the marketplace. We currently do not have the funds to seek such an approval and do not anticipate seeking FDA approval for several years. Focus over the next twelve months will be on continuing development and patent applications.

Current Product Development Status 

Hospital NO Unit . Our team has created an initial prototype which is a ready for use as a hospital Nitric Oxide gas generating system which delivers a continuous intra-breath concentration of therapeutic NO to patients who are on a ventilator in a hospital setting. Our formulation used in the machine is available in tablet form now which will improve conversion efficiency of our existing proprietary formulation. This machine and NO formulations are only in the prototype stage and we are doing internal testing on the accuracy of the machine and dosage prior to moving forward with any animal or human tests. With any medical product, it will take years of refinement and testing before the product is ready for market.

Portable Delivery System . Nu-Med has also developed a prototype lightweight Portable NO Delivery System that can be worn comfortably by patients outside of the hospital setting for underserved chronic therapies, and for applications within the United States and in developing nations. This product has the capability to deliver high purity NO to the patient at prescribed intervals or 24 hours per day at controlled doses by means of a nasal cannula or a face mask. As with our hospital unit, we are in the preliminary testing phase and do not anticipate any commercialization for several years.

Future Product Development. Our newest products to be investigated is a one-time Single Treatment Disposable unit which will give rapid access to short term NO treatment. The entire unit is disposed of after treatment and is unique in the market, with no competitive product available. We also are investigating a Wound Healing System which may reduce the loss of a partial or full foot for diabetics by healing wounds and sores caused by their disease. To continue research on new developments and advance next generation designs on existing products management estimates the Company will need $360,000 for 2016.

&#160;

Existing Clinical Applications of Inhaled nitric oxide and Potential Markets 

Nitric oxide can be safely inhaled when delivered thru a ventilator, face mask, by nasal cannula, or via an endotracheal tube. An ideal inhaled NO delivery device requires delivery synchronized with respiration and minimal production of NO 2 and should be simple to use with full monitoring capacity (high and low alarms and precise monitoring of NO, NO 2 , and O 2 ). 

Since the inception of the only FDA approved treatment of hypoxia in newborns with nitric oxide (INOMAX from Ikaria Holdings) management, initial research has shown approximately 394,000 patients have been treated worldwide over a ten-year period. Management believes the cost of a typical nitric oxide delivery system is approximately $30,000 each. Market expansion in the US will occur based on FDA approval for other medical uses of nitric oxide therapies. 

Competition 

Large companies with established brand names have a distinct advantage in the medical device arena. The cost of developing a product, followed by the costs of testing and licensing, favor larger, well financed and established companies. It will be difficult for NU-MED to compete in this industry and we will be required to focus on the niche products, if we hope to be able to compete. The number of companies that have a product or products involving nitric oxide and free radicals is quite large and difficult to determine precisely as this is not the main focus of these companies. 

In addition to companies that may be working on similar solutions in the nitric oxide space but have not been public in any product offerings, NU-MED considers the following companies as direct competitors in the nitric oxide market space anticipated by Nu-Med Plus. This does not preclude that large pharmaceutical or medical supply companies will enter the critical care market with substantially similar products or systems. 

Management believes Ikaria Holdings Inc. is currently the only company with an FDA approved nitric oxide (INOMAX) delivery system in commerce. The FDA approval is limited to persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns (PPHN). Ikaria has submitted several other specific medical uses of nitric oxide to the FDA for approval. The INOMAX system consists of a pressurized tank source of nitric oxide gas and a delivery and monitoring system and is intended for non-portable hospital use.

GeNO LLC is a technology company focused on their GeNOsyl Nitrosyl system of nitric oxide generation and delivery. This is a unique patented system based on the conversion of nitrogen dioxide/dinitrogen tetroxide to pure nitric oxide. Several delivery platforms have been submitted for FDA approval &#150; ambulatory (portable), tank delivery and a respirator system. Approval is pending.

GeNOsys Inc. is a technology startup that is developing an on-demand nitric oxide source. The product is described as being able to replace pressurized tank sources of nitric oxide. There are currently no FDA filings. 

12 th Man Technologies is a consortium of three companies that have combined their respective strengths to offer nitric oxide tank gas at significant cost savings along with appropriate delivery system hardware. FDA submissions under generic drug application and 510(k) are anticipated. They are currently taking pre-market availability orders. 

Many of our competitors, either alone or with their strategic partners, may have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining approval for therapies or delivery hardware and achieving widespread market acceptance. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs and advanced technologies become available.

Employees 

&#160;

The Company currently has one paid employee and relies on its officers and consultants for most of its activities. 

Description of Property 

NU-MED&#146;s corporate office is at 455 E 500 S, Suite 250, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Our R&#38;D facility is located at 1266 S 1380 W Orem, Utah 84058. We pay rent of $1,000 per month for the corporate office and $388 per month for the R&#38;D facility. Our corporate offices are leased from a law firm which runs an &#147;executive office&#148; structure. Until we expand our operations the executive office arrangement will provide us the flexibility to expand our corporate offices as needed without being committed to long term overhead or office space we currently do not need. Our leases are on a month to month basis. Management believes these facilities will serve our purposes for at least the next twelve months. 

Regulations 

Our proposed products would use nitric oxide gas for use in medical treatment. Accordingly, our products will require prior FDA Class II approval. We have not submitted our products for approval and it is expected to take many years and may not be obtained, even after expending substantial resources in such efforts. Various laws and regulations govern or influence the research and development, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of our products. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the subsequent compliance with applicable laws and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain or maintain, or any delay in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. Our policy will be to conduct our research and development activities in compliance with current FDA guidelines and with comparable guidelines in other countries where we may be conducting clinical trials or other developmental activities.

The following is a brief summary of applicable governmental regulations to which we may be subject in our planned business operations related to the use of our products in the medical field. It should be noted that we do not have the capital to engage in any regulatory approval at this time and instead, for the foreseeable future, we will be focused on the development of our technology and initial patent applications.

Clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceutical products require prior approval from the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries. The FDA has established mandatory procedures and safety and efficacy standards that apply to the testing, manufacture and marketing of such products in the United States. In the United States, these procedures include pre-clinical studies, the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application ("IND") or equivalent, human clinical trials and approval of a New Drug Application ("NDA"). The results of pre-clinical testing, which include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product and its formulations, must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND that must be reviewed before clinical testing can begin. 

The results of the preclinical and clinical testing are then submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA for approval to commence commercial sales. The FDA may, in responding to an NDA, grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the approval if it determines that the NDA does not provide an adequate basis for approval. Among the conditions for an NDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform on an ongoing basis with current Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP"). In complying with GMP, we must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full compliance or engage the services of outside contractors who are well versed in compliance with these requirements. Following approval of the NDA, we are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. Any determination by the FDA of manufacturing deficiencies could materially adversely affect our business.

European countries generally follow the same procedures. The European Union has established a unified filing system administered by the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products ("CPMP") designed to reduce the administrative burden of processing applications for pharmaceutical products derived from new technologies. 

Following CPMP review and approval, marketing applications are submitted to member countries for final approval and pricing approval, as appropriate. In addition to obtaining regulatory approval of products, it is generally necessary to obtain regulatory approval of the facility in which the product will be manufactured. The approval process for medical devices in Europe is similar but is administered by private certification organizations known as Notified Bodies, which are accredited by each member state of the European Union. The receipt of regulatory approvals often takes a number of years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or expense. There can be no assurance that any approval will be granted and, even if granted, such approval may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained. In addition, the regulatory approval processes for products in the U.S., European countries and other countries around the world are undergoing or may undergo changes, and we cannot predict what effect any changes in the regulatory approval process may have on our business.

Clinical testing of an unapproved significant-risk medical device requires FDA approval in the form of an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE). The IDE application provides information to the FDA on device design and qualification, as well as on the study protocol. The FDA is mandated to respond to the IDE application within 30 days. An IDE may also be required for studies in which an approved device is used for a purpose distinct from its approved indication. This is typically the case when a trial is sponsored by a company for the purpose of expanding the indication of a device or making significant changes in the instructions for use. 

Medical devices are regulated in the United States by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the FDA. The FDA/CDRH mandate is to promote and protect the public health by making safe and effective medical devices available in a timely manner. The standard for demonstrating safety and effectiveness is determined in part by the risk associated with the device in question. Devices are classified according to their perceived risk using a 3-tiered system (Class I, II, or III). 

Class I devices (lowest risk) are subject to general controls, which are published standards pertaining to labeling, manufacturing, post-market surveillance, and reporting. Devices are placed into Class I when there is reasonable assurance that general controls alone are adequate to assure safety and effectiveness. The general controls that typically apply to Class I devices include prohibitions against adulteration and misbranding, requirements for establishing registration and device listing, adverse event reporting, and good manufacturing practices. Furthermore, remedies including seizure, injunction, criminal prosecution, civil penalties, and recall authority are provided to the FDA. Formal FDA review is not required for most Class I devices before their market introduction.

Class II devices are those higher-risk devices for which general controls alone have been found to be insufficient to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness, but for which there is adequate information available to establish special controls. Special controls may include performance standards, design controls, and post-market surveillance programs. In addition, most Class II devices require FDA clearance of a premarket notification application (PMA or 510(k)) before the device may be marketed. In the 510(k) application, the medical device manufacturer must provide data to demonstrate that the new device is &#147;substantially equivalent&#148; to a legally marketed device. Although substantial equivalence can usually be demonstrated on the basis of bench and animal testing alone, approximately 10% of 510(k) applications include clinical data.

Class III devices, such as heart valves, pacemakers/implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, and coronary stents, are judged to pose the highest potential risk. These devices are either life-sustaining/supporting, of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, or present a high risk of illness or injury. Consequently, general and special controls alone are inadequate to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Most Class III devices require FDA approval of a PMA before they can be legally marketed. Approval of the PMA generally requires clinical data demonstrating reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective in the target population.

The Human Device Exemption (HDE) is a new pathway to allow for commercialization of Class III devices designed to address small markets, i.e., diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 4,000 patients in the United 

States each year. Approval of an HDE requires demonstration that the device is safe and the probable benefits outweigh the probable risks. Although the process may require smaller clinical trials, an HDE device must continue to operate under local IRB approval at each participating institution and must continue to collect case report forms akin to an ongoing clinical trial. The PMA process typically involves a series of studies starting with first clinical use and culminating in a multicenter, prospective randomized control trial (pivotal trial). The complexity and extent of the clinical testing program is dictated by the nature of the device and its proposed use. The clinical study program is developed by the company in conjunction with clinician investigators, all in close collaboration with the FDA/CDRH.

The first and arguably most important step in this process is the pre-IDE meeting, in which the company, often accompanied by the lead clinical investigator(s), meets with the FDA/CDRH to present data about the device, its clinical development program, and its intended use after approval. The FDA/CDRH staff reviews existing bench and animal data (as well as any outside-the-United States clinical data) and makes informal, non-binding suggestions regarding the need (if any) for additional pre-clinical data (bench and animal), as well as the study design. The sponsor then submits an IDE application to the FDA/CDRH for formal review. 

Clinical development of a new Class III device is typically divided into pilot and pivotal trial phases. The purpose of the pilot phase (starting with first clinical use) is to establish safety and to assist in design of the pivotal trial. Pilot-phase testing is typically limited to fewer than 100 patients treated at a few centers. The purpose of the pivotal trial is to generate data that define patient populations in which use of the device is safe and effective. The dialogue initiated during the pre-IDE meeting continues and intensifies between the FDA/CDRH and the company over the specifics of the pivotal trial and includes the patient population, the control group against which the new device will be evaluated, and the primary and secondary end points of the evaluation. For first-in-class devices, e.g. drug-eluting stents, where there are few data regarding short- or long-term outcomes, the FDA/CDRH requires prospective randomized controlled studies. High profile devices that require randomized data for approval are the exception rather than the rule. The vast majority of device clinical trials are case series that carefully document product performance. Still more products are approved as &#147;tools.&#148;

When the FDA/CDRH has substantial data on the device class metrics, comparisons may be made to historical data or objective performance criteria. When few data on existing standards are available, the FDA typically requires randomized rather than single-arm studies, in which the new device is compared against concurrent controls treated with current best medical practice. The comparison may be powered to show that the new treatment is superior to prior approaches, or that it is non-inferior (equivalent or better) compared with a previously approved device in a new area. 

The specifics regarding study design may have profound impact on the time and cost of bringing a new device to market. Though the primary mission of the FDA/CDRH is to ensure safety and effectiveness of commercially available devices, when exerting regulatory oversight, the agency must balance its primary mission with the costs of introducing new technologies to the clinical marketplace. This has been codified by the FDA Modernization Act and the FDA Modernization Act-II, which require the agency to pursue the &#147;least burdensome means&#148; available to establish device safety and efficacy. The trial must be conducted according to good clinical practices standards, with the approval of the local IRB at each participating center. 

Every clinical site is federally mandated to have an IRB responsible to ensure the protection of the rights, safety, and welfare of research subjects. Regulation of the IRB review of protocols involving medical devices is under the purview of the FDA. The Office of Protection from Research Risks (OPRR) is responsible for oversight regarding all human research and is in direct communication with the FDA/CDRH. Studies involving human subjects that do not involve products regulated by the FDA fall under the direct purview of the OPRR. Both the FDA and the OPRR are in the Department of Health and Human Services. Each IRB must meet standards for the composition, leadership, and processes set forth by that department. IRBs are subject to periodic audits by the FDA to ensure that records and procedures are in compliance with regulations. The IRB process typically requires approximately three months, but at times can take considerably longer. 

The company must also negotiate agreements with each clinical site addressing the many issues associated with the clinical trial. In addition to the study costs/reimbursement (per-patient enrolled and overhead), these agreements typically include indemnification and the assignment of ownership rights of new discoveries (intellectual property) made in the course of the study. The resources required at each center to perform the high quality research necessary for a PMA protocol are formidable. Pivotal studies required for a PMA application are typically large multicenter randomized trials and often represent the largest commercial risk and expense in the device development process. In addition to obtaining an IDE from the FDA and formally recruiting clinical sites, it also includes engaging a contract research organization (CRO), core laboratories, formation of a data safety monitoring board (DSMB), and an executive committee.

Though there are many similarities in the regulatory process in the United States and countries within the European Union, there are important differences that impact the time and cost associated with the introduction of a new medical device. The European Union system relies heavily on notified bodies (NBs), which are independent commercial organizations to implement regulatory control over medical devices. NBs have the ability to issue the CE mark, the official marking required for certain medical devices. NBs are designated, monitored, and audited by the relevant member states via the national competent authorities. Many functions performed by the FDA/CDRH within the United States are performed by NBs, including medical device certification, device type designation, assessment and verification of quality systems, and review of design dossiers for high-risk devices. Currently, there are more than 50 active NBs within Europe. A company is free to choose any notified body designated to cover the particular class of device under review. After approval, post-market surveillance functions are the responsibility of the member state via the competent authority. NBs typically function in a closed manner, providing little visibility on criteria required for approval. This dynamic allows for a high degree of variation as well as competition among NBs. As a result, NBs are perceived by industry to be less bureaucratic organizations that can respond more quickly and efficiently than the FDA. 

Criteria for approval of high-risk devices are different in the European Union. To receive approval to market a Class III high-risk (and some Class II) device in the United States, the manufacturer must demonstrate the device to be reasonably safe and effective, which typically requires a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial. To receive approval to market a device in the European Union, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the device is safe and that it performs in a manner consistent with the manufacturer&#146;s intended use. This difference has a profound impact on the size and scope of the clinical studies for regulatory approval. 

The demonstration of safety and efficacy for a new medical device is a long, arduous, and expensive developmental path from early concept to introduction into clinical practice. 

We will be subject to environmental and other rules related to the handling of nitric oxide. We will be using very small testing quantities of nitric oxide and do not anticipate any material issues in relation to nitric oxide as it relates to environmental or other regulatory issues.

In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business may be subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research, as well as national restrictions on technology transfer, and import, export and customs regulations and similar laws and regulations in foreign countries. Due to the extensive regulatory requirements, management does not anticipate any submittals for some time until the technology is more developed and tested in the lab. At such time as management feels initial submittals are warranted, significant additional capital will need to be raised to proceed with even initial submittals As such, we believe any commercialization of our product is years away and we will continue to be reliant on loans and stock sales to stay in business.

Concentration of Customers 

Currently we do not have any customers and will not have any customers for some time until our product is through the development stage and testing stage. This may take several years.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts, including Duration 

Presently we have 2 patents pending for our Nitric Oxide systems and we hope to file additional patents for our products which will help us build a strong IP portfolio and value for our company and our shareholders. Our two initial preliminary patents cover Gas Generator #14/996685 and a Controlled Delivery of Medical gases using Diffusion Membrane #14529112. We are also pursuing a proprietary protection strategy of our key formulations and methods for further strengthening the overall Intellectual Property portfolio. We have no trademarks. We also have no franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts. 

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Fiscal Years 

We are currently expensing most of our costs under a general operating expense category instead of capitalizing any research and development expenses. 

