 Item 1. 

Business.

General

NVR, Inc., a Virginia corporation, was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. Our primary business is the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings, all of which are primarily constructed on a pre-sold basis. To more fully serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and title services business. We conduct our homebuilding activities directly. Our mortgage banking operations are operated primarily through a wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. (&#8220;NVRM&#8221;). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to &#8220;NVR&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; include NVR, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States. We operate in multiple locations in fourteen states and Washington, D.C., primarily in the eastern part of the United States. During 2015, approximately 25% and 11% of our home settlements occurred in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas, respectively, which accounted for approximately 31% and 13%, respectively, of our 2015 homebuilding revenues. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings under four trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes and Heartland Homes. The Ryan Homes and Fox Ridge Homes products are marketed primarily to first-time and first-time move-up buyers. Ryan Homes operates in twenty-eight metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C., West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois and Tennessee. Fox Ridge Homes operates in the Nashville, TN metropolitan area. The NVHomes and Heartland Homes products are marketed primarily to move-up and up-scale buyers. NVHomes operates in Delaware and the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA and Raleigh, NC metropolitan areas. Heartland Homes operates in the Pittsburgh, PA metropolitan area. In 2015, our average price of a settled unit was approximately $379,900. 

We generally do not engage in land development (see discussion below on our limited land development activities). Instead, we typically acquire finished building lots at market prices from various development entities under fixed price purchase agreements (&#8220;purchase agreements&#8221;) that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the purchase agreements. The deposits required under the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts and represent a percentage, typically ranging up to 10%, of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots. 

We believe that our lot acquisition strategy avoids the financial requirements and risks associated with direct land ownership and land development. We may, at our option, choose for any reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of our intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the purchase agreements. We do not have any financial guarantees or completion obligations and we typically do not guarantee lot purchases on a specific performance basis under these purchase agreements. None of the creditors of any of the development entities with which we have entered these purchase agreements have recourse to our general credit. We generally seek to maintain control over a supply of lots believed to be suitable to meet our five-year business plan. 

In addition to constructing homes primarily on a pre-sold basis and utilizing what we believe is a conservative lot acquisition strategy, we focus on obtaining and maintaining a leading market position in each market we serve. This strategy allows us to gain valuable efficiencies and competitive advantages in our markets, which we believe contributes to minimizing the adverse effects of regional economic cycles and provides growth opportunities within these markets. Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished lots on which to build. As a result, in certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition strategy and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground already zoned for its intended use for development. Once we acquire control of any raw ground, we determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into a purchase agreement with the developer to purchase the finished lots, or whether to hire a developer to develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into additional transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists a compelling strategic or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to acquire substantially all of our finished lot inventory using purchase agreements with forfeitable deposits.

As of December 31, 2015, we controlled approximately 68,800 lots under purchase agreements with deposits in cash and letters of credit totaling approximately $373.3 million and $3.0 million, respectively. Included in the number of controlled lots are approximately 6,100 lots for which we have recorded a contract land deposit impairment reserve of approximately $42.2 million as of December 31, 2015. In addition, we controlled approximately 8,000 lots through six JVs with an aggregate investment of approximately $60.5 million. Of the lots controlled by the JVs, approximately 3,300 were not under contract with us at December 31, 2015. Further, as of December 31, 2015, we directly owned four separate raw parcels of land, zoned for their intended use, with a current cost basis, including development costs, of approximately $60.6 million that we intend to develop into approximately 980 finished lots. See Notes 3, 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information regarding fixed 

&#160;

price purchase agreements, JVs and land under development, respectively. In a ddition to the lots we cur rently control as discussed above, we have certain properties under contract with land owners that are expected to yield approximately 8,800 lots. Some of these properties may require rezoning or other approvals to achieve the expected yield. These proper ties are controlled with deposits and letters of credit totaling approximately $12.2 million and $350,000, respectively, as of December 31, 2015, of which approximately $8.7 million is refundable if we do not perform under the contract. We generally expect to assign the raw land contracts to a land developer and simultaneously enter into a lot purchase agreement with the assignee if the project is determined to be feasible. In February 2016, we acquired one of these properties at a cost of approximately $15 0 million which is expected to produce approximately 1,000 lots , of which approximately 160 lots are under co ntract with unrelated parties. 

In addition to building and selling homes, we provide a number of mortgage-related services through our mortgage banking operations. Through operations in each of our homebuilding markets, NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuyers. NVRM generates revenues primarily from origination fees, gains on sales of loans and title fees. NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets on a servicing released basis. 

Segment information for our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses is included in Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Current Business Environment

New home demand continued to improve throughout 2015. However, new home prices continued to be constrained due to an increase in the number of new home communities in many markets. The housing market also continues to face challenges from tight mortgage underwriting standards. We believe that a continuation of the housing market recovery is dependent upon a sustained overall economic recovery, driven by continued improvement in job and wage growth and household formation. For additional information and analysis of recent trends in our operations and financial condition, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Homebuilding 

Products

We offer single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings with many different basic home designs. These home designs have a variety of elevations and numerous other options. Our homes combine traditional, transitional, cottage or urban exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and amenities, generally include two to four bedrooms and range from approximately 1,000 to 7,000 square feet. During 2015, the prices at which we settled homes ranged from approximately $136,000 to $1.9 million and averaged approximately $379,900. During 2014, our average price was approximately $368,500.

Markets

Our four reportable homebuilding segments operate in the following geographic regions:

&#160;

Mid Atlantic:

&#160;

Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C.

North East:

&#160;

New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania

Mid East:

&#160;

New York, Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, Indiana and Illinois

South East:

&#160;

North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Florida

Backlog

Backlog totaled 6,229 units and approximately $2.4 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to backlog of 5,475 units and approximately $2.1 billion at December 31, 2014. Backlog, which represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, may be impacted by customer cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as the customer&#8217;s failure to obtain mortgage financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss or a variety of other reasons. In any period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that occurred during the same period, and a portion are related to sales that occurred in prior periods and therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of all cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our cancellation rate was approximately 15% in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013. Additionally, during each of 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 6% of a reporting quarter&#8217;s opening backlog balance cancelled during the fiscal quarter. We can provide no assurance that our historical cancellation rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. Other than those units that are cancelled, we expect to settle substantially all of our December 31, 2015 backlog during 2016. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A and &#8220;Seasonality&#8221; in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Further discussion of settlements, new orders and backlog activity by our homebuilding reportable segment for each of the last three years can be found in &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

&#160;

Construction 

We utilize independent subcontractors under fixed price contracts to perform construction work on our homes. We use several independent subcontractors in our various markets and we are not dependent on any single subcontractor or on a small number of subcontractors.

Sales and Marketing

Our preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished model home featuring many built-in options and a landscaped lot. The garages of these model homes are usually converted into temporary sales centers where alternative facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for other models are available for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a commission basis.

Regulation

We and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and local zoning, building, environmental, advertising and consumer credit statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other regulations and requirements in connection with our construction and sales activities. All of these regulations have increased the cost to produce and market our products, and in some instances, have delayed our developers&#8217; ability to deliver finished lots to us. Counties and cities in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach minimum standards. In addition, our homebuilding operations are regulated in certain areas by restrictive zoning and density requirements that limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on our construction activities.

Competition and Market Factors

The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition from the home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Historically, we have been one of the market leaders in each of the markets where we build homes. 

The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence levels, prevailing economic conditions and interest rates. Other factors that affect the housing industry and the demand for new homes include: the availability and the cost of land, labor and materials; changes in consumer preferences; demographic trends; and the availability of mortgage finance programs. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these risks.

We are dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of raw materials. Whenever possible, we utilize standard products available from multiple sources. In the past, such raw materials have been generally available to us in adequate supply.

Mortgage Banking 

We provide a number of mortgage related services to our homebuilding customers through our mortgage banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations also include separate subsidiaries that broker title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan closings for which they receive commissions and fees. Because NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuilding customers, NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment. In 2015, NVRM closed approximately 10,900 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.5 billion as compared to approximately 9,100 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.8 billion in 2014.

NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes to investors in the secondary markets on a servicing released basis, typically within 30 days from the loan closing. NVRM is an approved seller/servicer for Fannie Mae (&#8220;FNMA&#8221;) mortgage loans and an approved seller/issuer of Ginnie Mae (&#8220;GNMA&#8221;), Freddie Mac (&#8220;FHLMC&#8221;), Department of Veterans Affairs (&#8220;VA&#8221;) and Federal Housing Administration (&#8220;FHA&#8221;) mortgage loans.

Regulation

NVRM is an approved seller/servicer of FNMA mortgage loans and an approved seller/issuer of GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA mortgage loans, and is subject to all of those agencies&#8217; rules and regulations. These rules and regulations restrict certain activities of NVRM. NVRM is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to participate in such programs. In addition, NVRM is subject to regulation at the state and federal level, including regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;) with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices.

&#160;

Competition and Market Factors 

NVRM&#8217;s main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, credit unions and banks in each of these markets. NVRM competes primarily on the basis of customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and relative financing availability and costs.

Pipeline

NVRM&#8217;s mortgage loans in process that had not closed at December 31, 2015 and 2014 had an aggregate principal balance of approximately $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. NVRM&#8217;s cancellation rate was approximately 29%, 31% and 35% in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We can provide no assurance that our historical loan cancellation rates are indicative of the actual loan cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A in this Form 10-K for additional information about factors that could increase our cancellation rate.

Employees

At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 4,300 full-time persons. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov . All of the documents we file with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Our principal internet website can be found at http://www.nvrinc.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished, to the SEC.

Our website also includes a corporate governance section which contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines (which includes our Directors&#8217; Independence Standards), Code of Ethics, Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Nominating and Qualified Legal Compliance Committees of our Board of Directors, Policies and Procedures for the Consideration of Board of Director Candidates, and Policies and Procedures Regarding Communications with the NVR, Inc. Board of Directors, the Independent Lead Director and the Non-Management Directors as a Group. Additionally, amendments to and waivers from a provision of the Code of Ethics that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions will be disclosed on our website.

Forward-Looking Statements

Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by us in periodic press releases or other public communications, constitute &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Certain, but not necessarily all, of such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as &#8220;believes,&#8221; &#8220;expects,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; or &#8220;anticipates&#8221; or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. All statements other than of historical facts are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements contained in this document include those regarding market trends, NVR&#8217;s financial position, business strategy, the outcome of pending litigation, investigations or similar contingencies, projected plans and objectives of management for future operations. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results or performance of NVR to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to the following: general economic and business conditions (on both a national and regional level); interest rate changes; access to suitable financing by NVR and NVR&#8217;s customers; increased regulation in the mortgage banking industry; the ability of our mortgage banking subsidiary to sell loans it originates into the secondary market; competition; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by NVR in its homebuilding operations; shortages of labor; weather related slow-downs; building moratoriums; governmental regulation; fluctuation and volatility of stock and other financial markets; mortgage financing availability; and other factors over which NVR has little or no control. NVR undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements except as required by law.

&#160;

&#160;

