 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

The New York Times Company (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated on August 26, 1896, under the laws of the State of New York. The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to collectively in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us.&#8221; 

We are a global media organization focused on creating, collecting and distributing high-quality news and information. Our continued commitment to premium content and journalistic excellence makes The New York Times brand a trusted source of news and information for readers and viewers across various platforms. Recognized widely for the quality of our reporting and content, our publications have been awarded many industry and peer accolades, including 117 Pulitzer Prizes and citations, more than any other news organization. 

The Company includes newspapers, print and digital products and investments. We have one reportable segment with businesses that include: 

&#8226; 

our newspapers, The New York Times (&#8220;The Times&#8221;) and the International New York Times (&#8220;INYT&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

our websites, including NYTimes.com and international.nytimes.com; 

&#8226; 

our mobile applications, including The Times&#8217;s core news applications, as well as interest-specific applications such as NYT Cooking, Crossword and others; &#32; 

&#8226; 

related businesses, such as The Times news services division, digital archive distribution, NYT Live (our live events business) and other products and services under The Times brand. 

We generate revenues principally from circulation and advertising. Circulation revenue is derived from the sale of subscriptions to our print, web and mobile products and single-copy sales of our print newspaper. Advertising revenue is derived from the sale of our advertising products and services on our print, web and mobile platforms. Revenue information for the Company appears under &#8220;Item 7 &#8212; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; Revenues, operating profit and identifiable assets of our foreign operations are not significant. 

During 2015, the Company continued to focus on our digital offerings, while also making targeted investments in our print products. On July 30, 2015, we reached a milestone of one million paid digital-only subscribers, less than four-and-a-half years after launching our digital pay model. In the fall, we launched a virtual reality mobile application through which we have released a number of virtual reality films on wide-ranging topics. We also created innovative digital advertising solutions for our mobile and other platforms and continued to expand our branded 

THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY &#8211; P. 1 

content studio. In print, we re-launched The New York Times Magazine at the beginning of the year, and launched Men&#8217;s Style, the first new print section in The Times in a decade. 

The Company sold the New England Media Group in 2013 and the Regional Media Group and the About Group in 2012. The results of operations for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these discontinued operations. 

PRODUCTS 

The Company&#8217;s principal business consists of distributing content generated by our newsroom through our print, web and mobile platforms. In addition, we distribute selected content on third-party platforms. The Times&#8217;s print edition, a daily (Mon. - Sat.) and Sunday newspaper in the United States, commenced publication in 1851. The NYTimes.com website was launched in 1996. INYT, the international edition of The Times, is tailored and edited for global audiences. First published in 2013, INYT succeeded the International Herald Tribune, a leading daily newspaper that commenced publishing in Paris in 1887. 

Our print newspapers are sold in the United States and around the world through individual home-delivery subscriptions, bulk subscriptions (by business, schools and other entities) and single-copy sales. All print home-delivery subscribers receive unlimited digital access. 

Since 2011, we have charged consumers for content provided on our core news websites and mobile applications. Digital subscriptions can be purchased individually or through group corporate or group education subscriptions. Our metered model offers users free access to a set number of articles per month and then charges users for access to content beyond that limit. In addition, existing print and digital subscribers can, for an additional charge, access Times Insider, a suite of exclusive online content and features. 

In addition to our core news websites and mobile applications, we have developed desktop and mobile applications that are tailored to a variety of interests, including cooking and our Crossword puzzle. 

AUDIENCE AND CIRCULATION 

Our content reaches a broad audience through our print, web and mobile platforms. &#32; As of December 27, 2015, we had over two million subscriptions in 195 countries to our print and digital products. 

In the United States, The Times had the largest daily and Sunday circulation of all seven-day newspapers for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015, according to data collected by the Alliance for Audited Media (&#8220;AAM&#8221;), an independent agency that audits circulation of most U.S. newspapers and magazines. 

For the fiscal year ended December 27, 2015 , The Times&#8217;s average print circulation (which includes paid and qualified circulation of the newspaper in print) was approximately 603,700 for weekday (Monday to Friday) and 1,127,200 for Sunday. (Under AAM&#8217;s reporting guidance, qualified circulation represents copies available for individual consumers that are either non-paid or paid by someone other than the individual, such as copies delivered to schools and colleges and copies purchased by businesses for free distribution.) 

Internationally, average circulation for INYT (which includes paid circulation of the newspaper in print and electronic replica editions) for the fiscal years ended December 27, 2015 , and December 28, 2014 , was approximately 214,700 (estimated) and 219,500, respectively. These figures follow the guidance of Office de Justification de la Diffusion, an agency based in Paris and a member of the International Federation of Audit Bureaux of Circulations that audits the circulation of most newspapers and magazines in France. The final 2015 &#32;figure will not be available until April 2016 . 

Paid subscribers to digital-only subscription packages, e-readers and replica editions totaled approximately 1,094,000 as of December 27, 2015 , an increase of approximately 20% compared with December 28, 2014 . This amount includes estimated paid subscribers through our group corporate and group education subscriptions (which collectively represent approximately 7% of total paid digital subscribers) and home-delivery subscribers who also subscribe to Times Insider (which represent approximately 2% of total paid digital subscribers). The number of paid subscribers through group subscriptions is derived using the value of the relevant contract and a discounted basic subscription rate. The actual number of users who have access to our products through group subscriptions is substantially higher. 

P. 2 &#32;&#8211; THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY 

According to comScore Media Metrix, an online audience measurement service, in 2015, NYTimes.com had a monthly average of approximately 62 million unique visitors in the United States on either desktop/laptop computers or mobile devices. In addition, NYTimes.com had a monthly average of approximately 13 million unique visitors on desktop/laptop computers outside the United States. 

ADVERTISING 

We have a comprehensive portfolio of advertising products and services that we provide across print, web and mobile platforms. 

Our advertising revenue is divided into three main categories: 

Display Advertising 

Display advertising is principally from advertisers promoting products, services or brands, such as financial institutions, movie studios, department stores, American and international fashion and technology. In print, column-inch ads are priced according to established rates, with premiums for color and positioning. The Times had the largest market share in 2015 &#32;in print advertising revenue among a national newspaper set that consists of USA Today, The Wall Street Journal and The Times, according to MediaRadar, an independent agency that measures advertising sales volume and estimates advertising revenue. 

On our web and mobile platforms, display advertising comprises banners, video, rich media and other interactive ads. Display advertising also includes branded content on The Times&#8217;s platforms. Branded content is longer form marketing content that is distinct from the Times&#8217;s editorial content. In 2015 , display advertising (print and digital) represented approximately 91% of advertising revenues. 

Classified Advertising 

Classified advertising includes line ads sold in the major categories of real estate, help wanted, automotive and other. In print, classified advertisers pay on a per-line basis. On our web and mobile platforms, classified advertisers pay on either a per-listing basis for bundled listing packages, or as an add-on to their print ad. In 2015 , classified advertising (print and digital) represented approximately 5% of advertising revenues. 

Other Advertising 

Other advertising primarily includes creative services fees associated with our branded content studio; revenues from preprinted advertising, also known as free-standing inserts; revenues generated from branded bags in which our newspapers are delivered; and advertising revenues from our News Services business. In 2015 , other advertising (print and digital) represented approximately 4% of our advertising revenues. 

Our business is affected in part by seasonal patterns in advertising, with generally higher advertising volume in the fourth quarter due to holiday advertising. 

COMPETITION 

Our print, web and mobile products compete for advertising and consumers with other media in their respective markets, including paid and free newspapers, broadcast, satellite and cable television, broadcast and satellite radio, magazines, other forms of media and direct marketing. Competition for advertising is generally based upon audience levels and demographics, advertising rates, service, targeting capabilities and advertising results, while competition for consumer revenue and readership is generally based upon platform, format, content, quality, service, timeliness and price. 

The Times competes for advertising and circulation primarily with national newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal and USA Today; newspapers of general circulation in New York City and its suburbs; other daily and weekly newspapers and television stations and networks in markets in which The Times is circulated; and some national news and lifestyle magazines. The international print edition competes with international sources of English-language news, including The Wall Street Journal&#8217;s European and Asian Editions, the Financial Times, Time, Bloomberg Business Week and The Economist. 

As our industry continues to experience a shift from print to digital media, our products face competition for audience and advertising from a wide variety of digital alternatives, such as news and other information websites and mobile applications, news aggregation sites, sites that cover niche content, social media platforms, digital advertising networks and exchanges, real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels and other new forms of media. 

THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY &#8211; P. 3 

In addition, developments in methods of distribution, such as applications for mobile phones, tablets and other devices, also increase competition for users and digital advertising revenues. 

Our websites and mobile applications most directly compete for traffic and readership with other news and information websites and mobile applications. NYTimes.com faces competition from sources such as WSJ.com, washingtonpost.com, Google News, Yahoo! News, huffingtonpost.com, MSNBC and CNN.com. Internationally, international.nytimes.com competes against international online sources of English-language news, including bbc.co.uk, guardian.co.uk, ft.com, huffingtonpost.com and reuters.com. 

OTHER BUSINESSES 

We derive revenue from other businesses, which primarily include: 

&#8226; 

The Times news services division, which transmits articles, graphics and photographs from The Times and other publications to approximately 1,800 newspapers, magazines and websites in over 100 countries and territories worldwide. It also comprises a number of other businesses that primarily include our online retail store, product licensing, book development and rights and permissions; 

&#8226; 

The Company&#8217;s NYT Live business, which is a platform for our live journalism and convenes thought leaders from business, academia and government at conferences and events to discuss topics ranging from education to sustainability to the luxury business; and 

&#8226; 

Digital archive distribution, which licenses electronic archive databases to resellers of that information in the business, professional and library markets. 

JOINT VENTURE INVESTMENTS 

We have noncontrolling ownership interests in three entities: 

&#8226; 

49% interest in Donahue Malbaie Inc., a Canadian newsprint company (&#8220;Malbaie&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

40% interest in Madison Paper Industries, a partnership operating a mill that produces supercalendered paper, a polished paper that is higher-value grade than newsprint (&#8220;Madison&#8221;); and 

&#8226; 

30% interest in Women in the World, LLC, a live-event conference business. 

Ownership of Malbaie is shared with the Resolute FP Canada Inc. (&#8220;Resolute Canada&#8221;), which owns the other 51%. Resolute Canada is a subsidiary of Resolute Forest Products Inc., a Delaware corporation (&#8220;Resolute&#8221;), which is a large global manufacturer of paper, market pulp and wood products. Malbaie manufactures newsprint on the paper machine it owns within Resolute&#8217;s paper mill in Clermont, Quebec, and is wholly dependent upon Resolute for its pulp, which it purchases from this paper mill. In 2015, Malbaie produced approximately 218,000 metric tons of newsprint, of which approximately 10% was sold to us. 

Our Company and UPM-Kymmene Corporation, a Finnish paper manufacturing company, are partners through subsidiary companies in Madison. The Company&#8217;s percentage ownership is through an 80%-owned consolidated subsidiary. UPM-Kymmene owns 60% of Madison, including a 10% interest through a 20% noncontrolling interest in the consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Madison purchases the majority of its wood from local suppliers, mostly under long-term contracts. We purchased supercalendered paper from Madison for The New York Times Magazine until February 2015, when we changed to a different type of paper. In 2015, Madison produced approximately 184,000 short tons (167,000 metric tons) of supercalendered paper, of which less than 1% was sold to us. 

Malbaie and Madison are subject to comprehensive environmental protection laws, regulations and orders of provincial, federal, state and local authorities of Canada and the United States (the &#8220;Environmental Laws&#8221;). The Environmental Laws impose effluent and emission limitations and require Malbaie and Madison to obtain, and operate in compliance with the conditions of, permits and other governmental authorizations (&#8220;Governmental Authorizations&#8221;). Malbaie and Madison follow policies and operate monitoring programs designed to ensure compliance with applicable Environmental Laws and Governmental Authorizations and to minimize exposure to environmental liabilities. Various regulatory authorities periodically review the status of the operations of Malbaie and Madison. Based on the foregoing, we believe that Malbaie and Madison are in substantial compliance with such Environmental Laws and Governmental Authorizations. 

P. 4 &#32;&#8211; THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY 

These investments are accounted for under the equity method and reported in &#8220;Investments in joint ventures&#8221; in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 27, 2015. For additional information on these investments, see &#8220;Item 7 &#8212; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

PRINT PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION 

The Times is currently printed at our production and distribution facility in College Point, N.Y., as well as under contract at 27 remote print sites across the United States. The Times is delivered to newsstands and retail outlets in the New York metropolitan area through a combination of third-party wholesalers and our own drivers. In other markets in the United States and Canada, The Times is delivered through agreements with other newspapers and third-party delivery agents. 

INYT is printed under contract at 38 sites throughout the world and is sold in 131 countries and territories. INYT is distributed through agreements with other newspapers and third-party delivery agents. 

RAW MATERIALS 

The primary raw materials we use are newsprint and coated paper, which we purchase from a number of North American and European producers. A significant portion of our newsprint is purchased from Resolute. 

In 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we used the following types and quantities of paper: 

(In metric tons) 

&#160; 

Newsprint 

104,000 

&#160; 

114,000 

Coated Paper 

19,000 

&#160; 

10,000 

Supercalendered Paper (1) 

1,000 

&#160; 

7,000 

(1) 

The Times used supercalendered paper for The New York Times Magazine but discontinued such use in February 2015. 

EMPLOYEES AND LABOR RELATIONS 

We had 3,560 full-time equivalent employees as of December 27, 2015 . 

As of December 27, 2015 , approximately half of our full-time equivalent employees were represented by unions. The following is a list of collective bargaining agreements covering various categories of the Company&#8217;s employees and their corresponding expiration dates. 

Employee Category 

Expiration Date 

Mailers 

March 30, 2016 

NewsGuild of New York 

March 30, 2016 

Typographers 

March 30, 2016 

Machinists 

March 30, 2018 

Drivers 

March 30, 2020 

Paperhandlers 

March 30, 2021 

Pressmen 

March 30, 2021 

Stereotypers 

March 30, 2021 

Approximately 120 of our full-time equivalent employees are located in France, and the terms and conditions of employment of those employees are established by a combination of French national labor law, industry-wide collective agreements and Company-specific agreements. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our website at http://www.nytco.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY &#8211; P. 5 

