 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

We are a regenerative medicine company focused on developing and commercializing products in the musculoskeletal segment of the marketplace. Our first product candidate, NeoCart &#174; , is being investigated in a Phase 3 clinical trial. NeoCart utilizes various aspects of our regenerative medicine platform to develop an innovative tissue implant intended to treat tissue injury in the field of orthopedics, specifically cartilage damage in the knee. Joint, or articular, cartilage covers the ends of bones and allows for joints to glide smoothly with minimal friction. Cartilage damage, or chondral defects, can be caused by acute trauma, such as a bad fall or sports-related injury, or by repetitive trauma, such as general wear over time. Unlike other tissues in the body, joint cartilage has no innate ability to repair itself, making any injury permanent. Left untreated, even a small defect can expand in size and progress to debilitating arthritis, ultimately necessitating a joint replacement procedure. We have no products that are approved for sale in the United States and currently we are not selling any other products that may be approved for sale in other jurisdictions. NeoCart is based on our regenerative medicine platform, which combines expertise in the following areas: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cell therapy and processing: the handling of a tissue biopsy and the extraction, isolation and expansion of the cells; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Biomaterials and Scaffold: three-dimensional biomaterials structures that enable the proper distribution of cells and organize cells in their natural environment to support tissue formation; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Tissue engineering: the use of a combination of cells, engineering and biomaterials to improve or replace biological functions; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Bioadhesives: natural, biocompatible materials that act as adhesives for biological tissue and allow for natural cell and tissue infiltration and integration with native cells. NeoCart is a cartilage-like implant created using a patient&#146;s own cartilage cells through a series of tissue engineering processes. First, the patient&#146;s cells are separated from a tissue biopsy specimen extracted from the patient and multiplied in our laboratory. The cells are then infused into our proprietary scaffold that provides structure for the developing implant. Before NeoCart is implanted in a patient, the cell- and scaffold construct undergoes a bioengineering process in our Tissue Engineering Processor (TEP). Our TEP is designed to mimic the conditions found in a joint so that the implant is prepared to begin functioning like normal healthy cartilage prior to implantation. When NeoCart is implanted, a bioadhesive is used to anchor NeoCart in the cartilage injury and seal the implant to the surrounding native cartilage interface. The use of the bioadhesive eliminates the need for complicated suturing, and the cartilage implant integrates to the surrounding native cartilage. We believe that the Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials provide preliminary evidence for the safety of the NeoCart implant and improvement in pain and function in patients treated with NeoCart. 

We are currently enrolling a Phase 3 clinical trial for NeoCart in the United States to provide evidence of the safety and effectiveness of NeoCart, studying cartilage defects in the knees of 245 patients under a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) with the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Pursuant to the SPA, we formally and prospectively reached agreement with the FDA on key elements of the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol, including design, endpoints and statistical analyses of the resulting study data. The SPA is binding on the FDA review division with limited exceptions. If the clinical trial is successful, the data may be used to support efficacy claims for NeoCart approval and demonstrate clinical superiority over the current standard of care, microfracture. Microfracture consists of the creation of tiny holes or &#147;fractures&#148; in the bone underneath the injured cartilage leading to formation of a blood clot in the affected area. The blood and bone marrow that form the clot contain stem cells, which are thought to grow into cartilage-building cells, as well as growth factors to support cell function and development of replacement cartilage matrix. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had enrolled 114 patients into the Phase 3 clinical trial. We expect to complete enrollment of our NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial by the end of the first half of 2017, but we may encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our Phase 3 clinical trial, which could delay or otherwise adversely affect our 

&#160;

clinical development activities for NeoCart. During the second and third quarters of 2015, we made several changes in our enrollment processes for the Phase 3 clinical trial which we believe will positively impact future enrollment rates. These changes include, among others: (i) a shift away from national advertising and toward local advertising done in conjunction with specific physicians and sites; (ii) streamlining the enrollment process to initiate new sites; and (iii) changing the mix of clinical sites in the trial by eliminating those sites with little or no enrollment and replacing them with new sites we believe will contribute more patients to the trial. As of December 31, 2015, we had 32 sites eligible (out of a maximum of 40) to enroll patients. 

Musculoskeletal-related conditions, including cartilage damage, are one of the most prevalent health problems in the United States. Based on recent publications, we estimate that 1,000,000 knee arthroscopies are performed each year in the United States and we believe cartilage damage is likely to be identified in over 60% of those knee arthroscopies. Cartilage damage is a leading cause of osteoarthritis, a chronic condition in which cartilage breaks down, and the condition most responsible for the estimated 750,000 knee replacements performed in the United States annually. We believe the current alternatives available to treat cartilage damage in the knee, including microfracture, the most frequently used procedure for severe cartilage damage, inadequately address this condition. 

We believe NeoCart would represent a superior solution to treat cartilage damage in the knee because it has the potential to solve for the limitations of the current treatment alternatives and has the potential to provide improved efficacy, long-term patient benefits, accelerated patient recovery and predictable patient outcomes through a technically straightforward surgical procedure. If we are able to successfully complete our Phase 3 clinical trial, we believe these advantages may assist in securing approval to sell NeoCart in the United States and may enable us to become a market leader in cartilage repair. 

To date, we have completed two FDA-regulated human clinical trials in the United States. Specifically, we conducted a Phase 1 safety study of eight patients and a Phase 2 randomized controlled exploratory study of 30 patients. The objective of the Phase 1 clinical trial was to demonstrate the safety of NeoCart for use when implanted into cartilage defects in the knee. The objectives of the Phase 2 clinical trial were to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; continue the safety evaluation of NeoCart; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; gather additional efficacy data compared to microfracture; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identify validated endpoints that are clinically meaningful to patients and physicians; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identify appropriate patient populations to receive NeoCart; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtain additional data to be used in the design of future clinical studies. In the Phase 2 clinical trial, NeoCart demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in clinical efficacy based on pain and function measures as compared to microfracture. We believe our Phase 3 clinical trial will confirm the positive Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical data generated by NeoCart, which we believe are a direct result of our regenerative medicine platform. 

In anticipation of potential approval of NeoCart, we are in the process of scaling our internal current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) manufacturing capabilities and transitioning the manufacture of the critical components (raw materials) of NeoCart, including collagen, the proprietary scaffold and surgical adhesive in-house at our facilities located in the greater Boston area. The transition commenced in March 2014 with the intent of having the ability to manufacture NeoCart and the critical components of NeoCart with minimal reliance on third parties prior to the commercialization of NeoCart in the event NeoCart is approved. In addition to completing the initial engineering runs and validation studies for our facility in Lexington, Massachusetts, we also finished the last performance qualification manufacturing campaign for collagen. We intend to complete the manufacturing transition of the remaining raw materials, including the scaffold component and surgical adhesive in 2017. We communicated our plans to the FDA and in December 2014, we received preliminary feedback and 

&#160;

general acceptance of our raw material transition strategy and future commercial readiness upgrades from the FDA. Following completion of this transition, we will be required to obtain FDA approval of the comparability of the critical NeoCart raw materials moved in-house, and if we fail to obtain, or if we experience a delay in obtaining such approval, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. 

We believe our regenerative medicine platform may provide us with the ability to develop a strong pipeline and that the positive clinical data we have seen in treating cartilage damage of the knee with NeoCart will be applicable to other joints such as the ankle, hip and shoulder. We also believe our regenerative medicine platform has the ability to translate the fundamental science relating to tissue engineering to allow us to develop additional product candidates to treat other soft tissue damage throughout the body such as tendon, ligament and meniscus tears and complex joint degeneration. Although not utilized in connection with our current NeoCart development, our portfolio of proprietary fibroblast growth factors may be explored for their use in optimizing manufacturing yields and we believe they could also have various therapeutic applications including wound healing and fracture healing. We plan to continue to invest in our intellectual property portfolio in order to expand and protect the components of our regenerative medicine platform and future product candidates. 

Regenerative Medicine 

Regenerative medicine is a rapidly developing, interdisciplinary field that is transforming healthcare by translating fundamental science into a variety of products and solutions aimed at repairing, regenerating or replacing function loss caused by injury, disease or aging. Regenerative medicine technologies encompass a variety of therapeutic approaches, including tissue engineering, cell-based therapies, gene therapy, small molecules and biologics, stem cells and biobanking. Any combination of these technologies may be used to harness or stimulate the body&#146;s innate healing ability in order to treat a wide range of ailments, including musculoskeletal-related conditions, cardio- and peripheral vascular diseases, neurological disorders, stroke, non-healing wounds and ocular diseases. 

Musculoskeletal conditions, comprised of injuries to or diseases of bones, cartilage, joints, ligaments, muscles, nerves, skin or tendons, are the most common health problem in the United States and are a leading cause of disability and healthcare expenditure according to The Burden of Musculoskeletal Diseases in the United States , a 2011 publication of a coalition of professional organizations including the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. Based on the commercial introduction of new products and expanded applications of approved products, the musculoskeletal, orthopedics and spine segment of the regenerative medicine market was projected to reach approximately $13.0 billion worldwide by 2015 according to a 2010 report issued by MedMarket Diligence. 

Limitations of Current Alternatives for Treating Cartilage Damage 

We estimate, based on internal research, that over 500,000 knee cartilage procedures are performed annually in the United States, primarily in the form of debridement, microfracture, conventional autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) and osteochondral grafting. Debridement and microfracture procedures are the most frequently performed surgical procedures for the treatment of cartilage damage, accounting for an estimated 90% of all such procedures according to materials from a 2009 meeting of the Cellular Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee of the FDA. Debridement is an arthroscopic procedure that involves removal of injured or loose tissue debris by shaving, cutting or scraping it. Debridement does not attempt to repair cartilage damage. The surgeon&#146;s only goal when performing debridement is to improve a patient&#146;s symptoms of pain or loss of function. 

Microfracture is considered the current standard of care for chondral defects due to its ability to improve symptoms in specific types of patients, its simplicity, its safety profile and the lack of other viable alternatives. The procedure consists of perforations, or microfractures, made to the bone plate at the location of cartilage damage in order to allow bone marrow stem cells access to the injured area. Microfracture surgery, a procedure pioneered in the 1980s, was developed to exploit the ability of stem cells to differentiate into mature cells and tissue types. If bone marrow stem cells are able to access the injured area and stay in place by forming a blood 

&#160;

clot, then they may differentiate into cartilage cells, or chondrocytes, that would potentially go on to form cartilage. However, microfracture has been unsuccessful in reliably solving the underlying problem of cartilage damage because the repair tissue formed by the procedure, which has been found to usually be a mix of tissue types, is incapable of withstanding the normal shock and shear forces that joint cartilage sustains and may not provide the appropriate level of lubrication to the joint. 

In addition to its inability to solve the underlying problem&#151;damage to the articular cartilage&#151;microfracture is associated with numerous other drawbacks and limitations, including the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Modest and Variable Efficacy: The results of microfracture vary based on patient-specific characteristics and individual healing responses. Studies have shown the benefits of microfracture are negatively influenced by advanced age, higher body weight, larger chondral defect size and limited amount of repair tissue formed. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Limited Long-Term Patient Benefits: Positive clinical response to microfracture has been shown to wane over time. A systematic review summarizing multiple articles on microfracture and published in the American Journal of Sports Medicine in 2009 revealed that up to 80% of microfracture patients report deterioration in their postoperative functional improvement after two years. Based on our interpretation of a 2013 article in Cartilage and the 2009 systematic review in the American Journal of Sports Medicine , we believe over 30% of microfracture patients require subsequent additional cartilage procedures after two years and up to 50% of all microfracture patients eventually require unplanned knee procedures due to persistent or recurrent symptoms. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Extended Patient Recovery: Microfracture patients are typically not allowed to resume any vigorous activities for six months after their surgeries. During this time, patients must avoid weight-bearing activities for the first six weeks and use continuous passive motion machines for several hours per day. Prolonged physical therapy is often recommended. Such requirements and restrictions are believed necessary to optimize the anatomic and clinical results of microfracture, but come at the cost of muscle weakening, quality of life and delayed resumption of activities. ACI and osteochondral grafting are procedures generally reserved either for patients who have failed prior cartilage procedures or those with very large cartilage defects. While studies indicate beneficial outcomes for patients receiving these treatments, both have drawbacks and limitations similar to those affecting debridement and microfracture, and also are associated with the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Technically Demanding Surgeries: ACI is a slurry of autologous cartilage cells formed from a biopsy of a patient&#146;s cartilage and grown over six to eight weeks. A patch or cover is often sutured into the surrounding healthy cartilage to hold the slurry in place or cells are delivered on a scaffold and affixed with an adhesive. Osteochondral grafting, whether using the patient&#146;s own cells or using another person&#146;s tissue, consists of a circular plug of bone and cartilage press-fit into the defect and can be challenging to perform because of the difficulty of achieving an exact match, fit and placement of the graft. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Negative Safety Profile: ACI techniques are associated with graft failure, delamination (loss of cartilage layering), tissue overgrowth and knee stiffness. According to a 2006 report in the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery , 48% of ACI patients underwent reoperation as a result of problems directly related to the graft. Osteochondral grafting, if performed with the patient&#146;s own cells, is associated with limitations in treatable defect sizes because of associated donor site morbidity and, if performed using another person&#146;s tissue, is associated with the potential of disease transmission and nonunion. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Costs of Therapy and Reimbursement Hurdles: Currently available ACI therapies are costly, costing, based on our estimates, more than $30,000, excluding other fees to physicians and hospitals or surgery centers related to the procedure. In addition, currently available therapies have a rigorous pre-authorization process that requires additional efforts by the physician or his/her office to secure reimbursement on behalf of the patient. &#160;

Our Regenerative Medicine Platform and Initial Product Candidate 

Our Regenerative Medicine Platform 

Our regenerative medicine platform is comprised of innovative bioengineering, advanced proprietary materials sciences as well as molecular and cellular biology technologies that can be utilized individually or in a variety of combinations to treat musculoskeletal-related conditions: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cell Processing: As part of our process of implant production, our cell processing technologies involve the handling of a biopsy specimen in our own cGMP facilities, cell extraction from the biopsy and the isolation and expansion of cells in our segregated cell culture facility, effectively returning such cells to their juvenile phenotype where they may once again grow into mature cartilage cells. Our proprietary process is currently optimized for, but not limited to, cartilage cell culturing. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Scaffolds: Scaffolds are structures capable of supporting three-dimensional tissue formation and providing an environment for the cells that are needed to form the tissue. Our proprietary, three-dimensional scaffold structures, including our honeycomb collagen scaffolds, are designed to produce a cartilage-like implant. The scaffold for NeoCart is shaped like a disk, with diameter of 34 mm and thickness of approximately 1.5 mm. The term &#147;honeycomb&#148; describes the shape of the pores inside of the scaffold as they are shaped like a honeycomb. The honeycomb structure is important because it allows cartilage cells to line up vertically throughout the scaffold so that they organize as they normally would in native cartilage. Competing scaffolds only accommodate cells on their surface or in layers. Our proprietary three-dimensional scaffolds can support and deliver a variety of cell types and are biocompatible, biodegradable and non-toxic. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Tissue Engineering: Tissue engineering refers to applications that repair or replace portions of or whole tissues such as cartilage, bone, blood vessels and skin. We use a combination of cells, engineering and materials methods to produce our tissue implant for the purpose of repairing cartilage tissue. Our proprietary TEPs incubate our cell- and scaffold-based implants under conditions designed to mimic the conditions found in the knee, including pressure changes and low oxygen levels. We believe our proprietary TEP technology is unique to the tissue repair market and is one of the reasons patients receiving a NeoCart implant in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials recovered more quickly and realized positive long-term outcomes as compared to patients receiving microfracture surgery. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Bioadhesive: Our proprietary bioadhesive, CT3, secures the NeoCart implant in the defect and eliminates the need for complicated suturing that may be required during certain other cartilage repair treatments. CT3 is comprised of three components: methylated collagen, activated polyethylene glycol (PEG) and a simple salt buffering solution that acts as a curing component. CT3 is biodegradable and nontoxic. We believe CT3 contributes to the quick recovery and the positive long-term outcomes seen in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. NeoCart: Our Initial Product Candidate 

NeoCart, our Phase 3 product candidate, utilizes many aspects of our regenerative medicine platform to repair knee cartilage damage. We believe NeoCart has the potential to provide several benefits not provided by current treatment alternatives for knee cartilage damage, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Improved Efficacy: In our Phase 2 clinical trial of 30 patients, NeoCart showed better clinical outcomes when compared to baseline and/or microfracture on multiple measures of pain and function throughout the duration of the study. In addition, patients treated with NeoCart experienced statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvements in the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) pain and function subscales when compared to baseline as early as three months and continuing through five years after surgery at all time points measured, with similar results for the mean International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective (IKDC Subjective) scores. The difference in improvement between patients treated with NeoCart and those receiving microfracture 

&#160;

&#160; started as early as three months in certain subscales and lasted up to five years. We believe efficacy seen in our clinical trials to date is a result of NeoCart&#146;s ability to function like cartilage upon implantation and integrate with the surrounding native tissue, features that distinguish it from current treatment alternatives. Based on biomarker release testing we conduct in our laboratories, there is evidence that NeoCart is comprised of maturing hyaline cartilage prior to implantation into a patient. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Accelerated Patient Recovery: Our CT3 bioadhesive anchors NeoCart in the defect bed and seals it to the surrounding native cartilage. The cartilage-like NeoCart implant coupled with the secure CT3 fixation may allow for earlier weight-bearing and accelerated recovery of function than is typical with alternative therapies, which would be distinctly advantageous for any cartilage repair solution. In our Phase 3 clinical trial, patients may be allowed to begin weight-bearing activities as soon as two weeks following implantation versus six weeks for the current standard of care, microfracture. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Long-Term Patient Benefits: In contrast to microfracture&#146;s well-documented deterioration of results after two years, NeoCart&#146;s positive outcomes have been sustained for three or more years in our Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials. We believe that all of the biologic and mechanical attributes of NeoCart provide the potential for a durable clinical response and give it the potential to prevent the evolution of osteoarthritis and subsequent need for knee replacement surgery. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Technically Straightforward Surgery: The use of our CT3 bioadhesive eliminates the need for complicated suturing associated with some ACI techniques. Unlike osteochondral grafting procedures, the NeoCart implant is tailored to the shape of the defect so that all normal host tissue is left in place. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Positive Safety Profile: To date, NeoCart has shown no evidence of tissue overgrowth or knee stiffness often associated with ACI techniques. Reoperation rates to address problems directly related to the cartilage procedure or other persistent general knee symptoms, associated with all cartilage techniques and particularly high with ACI techniques, have been very low in NeoCart patients followed for five years in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Favorable Reimbursement Profile: We are developing NeoCart to be used as a first-line therapy for the treatment of cartilage damage in the knee. We believe that the data we have generated to date, when combined with the data from the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial, may enable us to secure favorable reimbursement without the prior-authorization hurdles associated with the currently available ACI therapies. &#160;

THE NEOCART PROCESS 

&#160;

Our Business Strategy 

Our goal is to leverage our regenerative medicine platform to develop and commercialize innovative, next generation products to treat patients suffering from musculoskeletal-related conditions. The overarching strategies that support these goals are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Complete Phase 3 Clinical Trial and Apply for Regulatory Approval of NeoCart in the United States. We are currently enrolling our Phase 3 clinical trial. As of December 31, 2015, we had enrolled 114 patients and had 32 sites participating in the clinical trial. We evaluate the tactics we use to enroll the trial on an ongoing basis and are aggressively seeking to increase enrollment through: (i) local advertising campaigns done in conjunction with our clinicians; (ii) streamlining the site and patient enrollment processes; and (iii) replacing under-performing sites as necessary. Assuming positive results of the NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial, we plan to submit a Biologics License Application (BLA) to the FDA for approval in the United States when the 12 month data are available, which we expect to be in the second half of 2018. Upon receiving approval from the FDA, if at all, which we anticipate would be in 2019 if a BLA is submitted in the second half of 2018, we then intend to launch and commercially market NeoCart for the treatment of cartilage defects in the knee. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to Develop Our Manufacturing Capabilities. We own and operate our own cGMP manufacturing operations for NeoCart and are currently transferring production of critical raw materials and components used in the NeoCart production process to a new manufacturing facility that we have developed and continue to develop in Lexington, Massachusetts. For our clinical trials of NeoCart conducted through the end of 2015, the raw materials and components were supplied to us by external vendors. We are transferring production of these raw materials to our own facilities in order to gain full control over quality, process, supply and costs. This transition to our own manufacturing facilities will also enable us to expand production capacity for clinical and commercial supply of NeoCart in the future in the event we receive FDA approval, subject to comparability verification and confirmation by the FDA. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maximize Commercial Opportunity of NeoCart. We expect to invest strategically in a U.S. commercial infrastructure to support the successful launch, commercialization and post-marketing support for NeoCart, in the event NeoCart should receive FDA approval. As part of this investment, we intend to build a highly experienced medical affairs, sales and marketing organization to target orthopedic surgeons in the United States as the primary point of contact. In preparation for a potential launch of NeoCart, if ever, we are developing a reimbursement dossier to facilitate the introduction of NeoCart into the marketplace. In January 2015, the FDA approved a protocol amendment to the NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial that allowed us to generate additional Health Economics Outcomes Research data to provide additional support for our future reimbursement initiatives. These additional data include key economic data and outcomes associated with quality of life, productivity and return to work status, as well as healthcare resource utilization related to direct and indirect costs. We believe the recovery advantages of NeoCart over other treatments may be substantial, and expect these data to be critical to the reimbursement and adoption of NeoCart, if approved. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage Our Regenerative Medicine Platform and Exclusive Channel Collaboration Agreement with Intrexon to Expand Our Pipeline. We believe the strength of our regenerative medicine platform provides us with a significant opportunity to enhance and expand our product pipeline. In addition, we believe we can leverage our technology and reduce our manufacturing costs by using Intrexon&#146;s synthetic biology technology platform to develop and commercialize genetically modified chondrocyte cell therapeutics for the treatment or repair of damaged articular hyaline cartilage in humans. Initially we are focused on using Intrexon&#146;s technology to develop induced pluripotent stem cell derived (IPSC) source materials in our NeoCart manufacturing process and begin proof-of-concept testing in the first half of 2016. We also believe there is a significant unmet market need and commercial opportunity to treat cartilage defects in other joints such as ankles, shoulders and hips and intend to explore these areas both alone and in conjunction with Intrexon. Examples of such initiatives may include one-step, off-the&#150;shelf and/or next-generation NeoCart products as well as products designed to treat additional soft tissue and musculoskeletal-related disorders. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to Invest in Our Intellectual Property and Selectively Evaluate Business Development Opportunities. Our intellectual property estate consists of 46 licensed or owned patents as well as trade secrets and know-how around the manufacturing of cell therapies. We intend to continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio to further protect both NeoCart and our future product candidates by filing patent applications in the United States, the European Economic Area (EEA, which is comprised of the 28 Member States of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) and other jurisdictions. In addition, we believe there may be opportunities to generate additional value from our intellectual property portfolio and intend to explore and evaluate various business development opportunities, including collaborations around rights to NeoCart outside the U.S. or the development and commercialization rights for our other assets. Furthermore, we believe there are opportunities to bring in complementary technologies and or product candidates that will leverage the commercial infrastructure we intend to build for the potential launch of NeoCart, if approved, and we intend to pursue such opportunities in the future. Our Phase 3 Product Candidate: NeoCart 

NeoCart data produced as of December 31, 2015 in the Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials has demonstrated very favorable safety and the potential for durable efficacy and has been published in journals such as the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery , which accepted the Phase 2 data because of the high degree of rigor and quality of the design and analysis of the data. Please see the sections below entitled &#147;Phase 2 Clinical Trial&#148; and &#147;Phase 1 Clinical Trial&#148; for a discussion of the data from our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. We consider the data observed thus far to be a direct result of NeoCart&#146;s distinct attributes that combine to form a sophisticated and unique biologic implant with evidence of cartilage growth prior to implantation and the ability to function like normal cartilage upon implantation. Further, we believe the data reflects that, after implantation, NeoCart continues to mature and integrate with the native cartilage as it is exposed to the natural environment of the joint. We believe these attributes and the clinical data we have accumulated to date differentiate NeoCart from other treatment alternatives, including microfracture. 

&#160;

Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

We are pursuing FDA approval via a BLA pathway with a clinical trial designed to show superiority against the current standard of care, microfracture. Our NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial is being performed under an SPA with the FDA and was initiated as a confirmatory study based on the promising safety and efficacy findings from our Phase 2 clinical trial. The Phase 3 clinical trial design, based on our Phase 2 clinical trial, is a prospective, controlled, multi-center trial of 245 adults between the ages of 18 and 59 years who have symptomatic focal full-thickness chondral knee defects randomized between NeoCart and microfracture on a two-to-one basis. Randomization is done at arthroscopy, at which time final patient eligibility is determined. 

As agreed to with the FDA under our SPA, the primary endpoint for approval is superiority at one year in the proportion of responders in the NeoCart patient group compared to the proportion of responders in the microfracture patient group in a dual-threshold responder analysis. This unique dual-threshold responder analysis utilizes the KOOS pain subscale and IKDC Subjective assessments. Both the KOOS pain and the IKDC Subjective assessments are validated, patient-centered and self-administered outcome instruments intended to assess patient-relevant outcomes. The KOOS separately assesses and scores five dimensions of outcomes from the patient&#146;s perspective: pain, symptoms, activities of daily living, sport and recreation function and knee-related quality of life. Similarly, the IKDC Subjective assesses and scores three dimensions of outcomes from the patient&#146;s perspective: symptoms, function during activities of daily living and sports. 

The scores are tabulated and transformed to a 100-point scale, where 100 represents the best outcome for either pain or function and zero represents the worst outcome. A one-year superiority endpoint was deemed appropriate for our Phase 3 clinical trial under our SPA based on the magnitude of difference between the responder rates at one year for patients receiving NeoCart implants and patients receiving microfracture surgery in our Phase 2 clinical trial, a magnitude of difference that continued to be present through five years. We believe that, should our Phase 3 clinical trial show a comparable magnitude of difference in responder rates between NeoCart and microfracture, NeoCart&#146;s ability to function like cartilage upon implantation and integrate with the surrounding native tissue (attributes of NeoCart we believe are responsible for our Phase 2 clinical trial results) will be a principal reason for the one-year Phase 3 clinical trial outcome and the presumed resultant durability. However, there is no guarantee that our Phase 3 clinical trial results will demonstrate the same results as our Phase 2 or Phase 1 clinical trials and NeoCart may not be approved for sale in the United States by the FDA after the FDA reviews the results of the Phase 3 clinical trial. 

Similar to our Phase 2 clinical trial, discussed below in &#147;Phase 2 Clinical Trial,&#148; in the Phase 3 clinical trial, a patient is considered a responder if he or she achieves both of the following patient-reported outcomes: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; improvement of at least 12 points compared to the patient&#146;s baseline score in KOOS pain subscore assessment; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; improvement of at least 20 points compared to the patient&#146;s baseline score on the IKDC Subjective assessment. &#160;

In the schematic below, the area in the upper right-hand quadrant of the graph, shaded in gray, is the zone reflecting those patients who achieved improvement of both at least 12 points on the KOOS pain scale and at least 20 points on the IKDC Subjective. The horizontal axis, or x-axis, is the KOOS pain scale and the vertical axis, or y-axis, is the IKDC Subjective. 

SCHEMATIC REPRESENTATION OF RESPONDER RATE ANALYSIS 

&#160;

The following additional endpoints will be evaluated in secondary superiority testing at one year comparing the NeoCart patient group to the microfracture patient group: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; time to full weight-bearing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; &#147;treatment failure,&#148; defined as a greater than an 8-point deterioration in KOOS pain score at one year compared to baseline; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; presence of mature collagen layering as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging cartilage mapping at one year. Patients will be followed for a total of three years for safety and additional efficacy data. 

Phase 3 Status 

As of December 31, 2015, we had enrolled 114 patients into the Phase 3 clinical trial. We expect to complete enrollment of our NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial by the end of the first half of 2017, but we may encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could delay or otherwise adversely affect our clinical development activities. In November 2015, we filed an amendment to the to the NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial protocol under the SPA to expand the eligible patient population. In December 2015, the FDA accepted the amendment which allows for, among other things, the inclusion of patients with trochlear lesions and the inclusion of patients up to age 59 into the trial. As of December 31, 2015, we had 32 sites eligible (out of a maximum of 40) to enroll patients. 

In late 2009, pursuant to our SPA, we initiated our Phase 3 clinical trial and our first patient was randomized in June 2010. In September 2010, after nine patients had been randomized, active enrollment was postponed until the completion of a convertible debt financing in late 2011. 

In November 2012, we voluntarily suspended manufacturing operations and paused enrollment of the NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial upon discovery of discrepancies in the testing procedures used to assess one of the raw materials (bovine-derived type I collagen) utilized in the manufacture of NeoCart implants. All participating clinical trial sites, including Institutional Review Boards (IRB), and the FDA were notified of our decision. After an in-depth review of all available information, we concluded that the observed discrepancies did not impact product quality or patient safety, but we chose to continue our self-imposed pause to improve and upgrade certain of our existing manufacturing and quality control systems processes to meet or exceed cGMP standards. This transition was completed in December 2013. Prior to our November 2012 voluntary election to pause enrollment, 30 patients had been randomized into the NeoCart Phase 3 clinical trial. Twenty-one of these patients were randomized to receive a NeoCart implant and nine were randomized to undergo a microfracture procedure. 

&#160;

Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

Our NeoCart Phase 2 clinical trial was initiated in 2007 to evaluate further the positive safety and early efficacy signals demonstrated in our Phase 1 clinical trial of NeoCart for articular cartilage damage in the knee. We also sought to identify clinically meaningful endpoints and identify appropriate patient populations to be studied in the design of future clinical studies. The trial was a five-year prospective, controlled, randomized, clinical study of 30 patients conducted at six U.S. centers and completed its enrollment in 2008. Twenty-one patients were randomized to receive a NeoCart implant and nine patients were randomized to undergo a microfracture procedure. The trial was completed in 2013 with final data collection and analysis in 2014 and 2015. 

In the Phase 2 clinical trial, baseline (preoperative) pain and function assessments were obtained and included, among other measurement instruments, the KOOS pain and symptoms subscales, the IKDC Subjective assessment and a visual analog pain scale. At every measurement interval between three months and three years, the same pain and function assessments were measured. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics (mean and standard deviation), paired t testing and analysis of covariance with significance levels (p-values) set at less than 0.05 (two-sided). According to the results of the analysis, those patients receiving a NeoCart implant achieved statistically significant improvement (all p-values &#60;0.05) compared to their baseline assessments on the KOOS pain and symptoms subscales, the IKDC Subjective assessment and a visual analog pain scale, meaning that sufficient data exist to indicate the improvement on each measure is unlikely to have occurred by chance. Furthermore, when this improvement from baseline was compared to the improvement of microfracture from baseline, NeoCart&#146;s improvement was statistically significantly better (all p-values &#60;0.05) than microfracture&#146;s improvement on a meaningful number of the measurements. 

Additional comparison of the two groups was performed with the previously described dual-threshold responder analysis we are utilizing in our Phase 3 clinical trial. To be considered a responder in the Phase 2 clinical trial, a patient must have achieved a minimum improvement on the KOOS pain subscale and the IKDC Subjective assessment compared to his or her baseline scores. The minimum required improvement for pain was 12 points and the minimum required improvement for function was 20 points. 

The selected thresholds have been validated in the literature as clinically meaningful to patients. In some cases, patients entered the Phase 2 clinical trial with pain scores at a level such that they could not have improved a great deal (for example, a baseline of 91 points on a scale of 100). In those cases, patients were considered responders if their function scores improved a minimum of 20 points even if their pain scores did not improve the required 12 points. Compared to the microfracture group, NeoCart-treated patients had superior responses to treatment as early as three months in certain subscales with such responses lasting up to five years. 

&#160;

RESPONDER RATE ANALYSIS AT YEAR 1 

&#160;

&#160;

As shown in the graphic above, at Year 1, the number of NeoCart patients (represented by an &#147;O&#148;) who achieved responder status was greater than the number of microfracture patients (represented by an &#147;X&#148;) who achieved responder status. Many patients far exceeded the minimum dual thresholds required to be considered a responder. 

As explained more fully above, some patients entered the Phase 2 clinical trial with minimal pain indicated by a high baseline KOOS pain score. A score of 100 on the KOOS pain scale indicates the patient is reporting no pain. In those few cases, only the change in IKDC Subjective score was used to determine if the patients responded to therapy. In those cases, patients were deemed responders if their function scores improved a minimum of 20 points even if their pain scores did not improve the required 12 points. 

In November 2013, the five-year observation period for the Phase 2 clinical trial concluded. Initial preliminary results were presented at the May 2015 Annual Meeting of the International Cartilage Repair Society demonstrating continued positive results of NeoCart. A subsequent analysis and validation of the data was performed in the second half of 2015 in connection with the submission of the data to the FDA and for peer-reviewed publication. The data from the trial are now final, and are currently under review for a future peer-reviewed publication, which is expected in 2016. Based on the initial analysis, NeoCart generally demonstrated a lasting improvement over baseline through five years after implant. During the course of the trial, no serious adverse events (expected or unexpected) were considered to be product- or implant-related. We believe the data demonstrate the advantage of NeoCart relative to Microfracture through five years after surgery. Importantly, the difference in responders at the end of the first year (the primary endpoint on our current Phase 3 clinical trial) was statistically significant (p &#60; 0.05). Two-year results of this trial were published in the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery in 2012. 

Phase 1 Clinical Trial 

A Phase 1 clinical trial was conducted to demonstrate the safety of NeoCart for use when implanted into cartilage defects in the knee with the intention of repairing the articular cartilage defects. The two-year results of our Phase 1 clinical trial were published in the American Journal of Sports Medicine in 2009. Among the eight 

&#160;

patients studied, all of whom enrolled in 2005 and completed five years of observation, a highly favorable safety profile of NeoCart was documented. The trial was completed in 2010 and final data collection was completed in 2011. Specifically, few reported complications occurred and no serious adverse events (expected or unexpected) were deemed treatment-related. No cases of infection, implant rejection or immune reaction were documented. Additionally, joint stiffness and implant overgrowth did not occur in any patient. Efficacy signals in the form of significant improvement in pain and function, measured with patient-reported outcome surveys such as the visual analog pain scale and the IKDC Subjective score, compared to each patient&#146;s baseline scores were also noted. 

Pipeline and NeoCart Indication Expansion 

We intend to build a robust development pipeline by leveraging our regenerative medicine platform and intellectual property portfolio as well as expanding the applications of NeoCart into additional indications. Although our initial focus for NeoCart is for the treatment of knee cartilage damage, we plan to leverage our regenerative medicine platform to explore the treatment of chondral defects in other joints, such as the ankle, hip and shoulder. Furthermore, we believe our platform can be utilized to address more extensive cartilage damage associated with significant bone loss and generalized arthritis as well. 

Our acellular scaffolds are capable of hosting cells of any type, which allows us the flexibility to tailor their use for other regenerative medicine opportunities beyond cartilage repair, including ligament, tendon and meniscus repair. In addition to the potential use of our growth factor variants in optimizing our manufacturing process, our proprietary growth factor variants may be of use in therapeutic applications such as fracture healing, osteoporosis, generalized osteoarthritis, orphan diseases involving genetically-based bone growth disruption (applicable to our specific variants) and wound healing. 

In September 2014, we entered into our ECC with Intrexon that governs a &#147;channel collaboration&#148; arrangement. Pursuant to the ECC we intend to use Intrexon&#146;s synthetic biology technology platform for the development and commercialization of allogeneic, genetically modified, chondrocyte cell therapeutics for the treatment or repair of damaged articular hyaline cartilage in humans. 

Commercialization 

If NeoCart is approved by the FDA, we plan to build our own commercial organization in the United States to support the launch and commercialization of NeoCart. The organization will be designed for scalability to support other potential future products as well. For NeoCart, we initially plan to scale up to approximately 40 sales representatives and management after FDA approval. The NeoCart sales force will target the estimated 4,000 to 5,000 orthopedic surgeons in the United States who may use NeoCart, including a core group of physicians focused on the care of cartilage injuries. We expect this core commercial team to be comprised of experienced sales representatives with relevant industry experience in the areas of orthopedic surgery and biologics sales. We may also selectively evaluate commercialization strategies, including partnering, for NeoCart outside of the United States due to challenging economic and reimbursement environments in such markets. 

Manufacturing 

We operate our own cGMP manufacturing facility in Waltham, Massachusetts for the end-to-end production of NeoCart. We currently have adequate capacity in our Waltham, Massachusetts facility to meet NeoCart clinical demand and we believe we have adequate capacity to meet initial commercial demand if we are successful in receiving regulatory approval for NeoCart in the United States. 

Our manufacturing strategy is to own and operate fully integrated cGMP manufacturing operations for the commercial production of NeoCart in the event NeoCart receives FDA approval. Through the end of 2015, we manufactured all the NeoCart implants for our clinical trials and are transitioning the production of the NeoCart components, or critical raw materials, to our facility in Lexington, Massachusetts in order to gain full control over 

&#160;

quality, process, supply and costs. We intend to demonstrate the comparability of NeoCart implants made with the new raw materials to the prior implants that we produced with the critical raw materials from third-parties. 

We have also entered into a supply agreement with Collagen Solutions (UK) Limited (Collagen Solutions) pursuant to which we will seek to establish them as a secondary source of additional collagen for use in our manufacture of NeoCart in the U.S. We may also seek to collaborate with Collagen Solutions for potential future European manufacturing capabilities for future clinical trials of NeoCart and commercialization, if approved. 

NeoCart Manufacturing Process 

Our manufacturing process for NeoCart is systematic and organized with specific steps that are tightly controlled. The first step includes receiving a biopsy from the patient&#146;s own cartilage from which cartilage cells can be isolated and expanded in number using segregated cell culture technology at our cGMP manufacturing facility in Waltham, Massachusetts. Once we have achieved an adequate number of cartilage cells, these cartilage cells are placed into a sterile collagen solution provided to us in vials after sterile filtration by a third party contract manufacturer, and then applied to the three-dimensional collagen scaffold. The scaffold, which is currently provided to us by a third party supplier, provides an environment for the NeoCart implant to grow and develop into the form ultimately implanted. The development of the NeoCart implant occurs under controlled conditions in our in our TEP system which exposes the implant to pressure cycles designed to simulate the pressure cycles that cartilage is exposed to in the knee. After development in the TEP system, the implant is placed into a solution that allows further maturation prior to implantation. Once the implant is mature, it is shipped by a third-party to the clinical site for implantation in the patient, which typically occurs within three to five days after the completion of the manufacturing process. The manufacturing cycle time, from receipt of biopsy to delivery of the implant, is approximately six to nine weeks. The range in cycle time is dependent upon the variability in the growth rates of the cells obtained from individual patients. 

The quality control laboratory, located within our main Waltham, Massachusetts facility, handles cGMP release testing for the raw materials, CT3 components and adhesive, the collagen scaffold and final NeoCart implant. Further, our quality control group handles all in-process and finished product environmental monitoring related to the manufacturing process. Testing is performed pursuant to validated test methods using qualified equipment. 

NeoCart Technology and Materials Transfer 

Manufacturing of raw materials and components used in the NeoCart supply chain is undergoing a technology transfer from outsourced contract manufacturers, which we used for clinical manufacturing, to our manufacturing facility in Lexington, Massachusetts, which we will use for commercial manufacturing in the event NeoCart is approved by the FDA. This technology transfer extends to the three components of the CT3 bioadhesive&#151;methylated collagen, curing solution and activated PEG&#151;and collagen honeycomb scaffold, which is used in the production of NeoCart. We also plan to transfer production of the collagen raw material used in some of the NeoCart components to our new facility. Sterile filtration and aseptic filling of our sterile collagen solution used in NeoCart production will continue to be performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. We do not anticipate changes to raw materials, components, formulations or properties, nor do we anticipate changes to the NeoCart manufacturing process or finished product specifications as a result of the transfer. As of December 31, 2015, we completed the initial engineering runs and validation studies for the Lexington facility and also finished the last performance qualification manufacturing campaign for collagen. We intend to complete the manufacturing transition of the remaining raw materials including the scaffold component and surgical adhesive in 2017. 

Because we are transitioning production of critical raw material and components to our own manufacturing facility for future commercial production, we will be required to demonstrate to the FDA that the raw collagen material and the components manufactured in the new facility are comparable to those that were used previously in clinical studies. In order to implement the technology transfer prior to submission of the BLA, we intend to submit an amendment to the existing Investigational New Drug (IND) application file for FDA pre-approval. Prior to submission of this amendment, we obtained FDA feedback and general agreement with our plans via a 

&#160;

formal FDA-Sponsor Type C meeting in December 2014, where we presented technology transfer and comparability plans that included our product test methods, and manufacturing process summaries. Based on internal review, guidance from FDA and a response from the FDA to our type C meeting (which we received in January 2015), we believe our current strategy to generate and provide comparability data to the FDA for review should be sufficient. Should the FDA determine that additional clinical data is required to confirm comparability, we would collaborate with FDA to develop a mutually agreeable plan to be executed prior to submitting the BLA. 

Intellectual Property 

Patent and trade secret protection is critical to our business. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to protect our cell processing technology, materials science and products for tissue repair through a variety of methods, including seeking, maintaining and defending patents and other intellectual property intended to cover our products and compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, our platform technologies, our trade secrets and any other inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. We actively seek patent protection in the United States and select foreign countries. 

Our intellectual property portfolio is currently composed of 23 issued patents and 11 patent applications in the United States that we own, and 23 issued patents and three patent applications in the United States that we license from academic institutions and business entities. We also have over 100 counterpart patent and patent applications owned or licensed in certain foreign jurisdictions. This portfolio of owned and in-licensed patents and patent applications covers aspects of: our implants, including NeoCart and our protein implants; our tissue engineering processor; our adhesives; our growth factors, methods of delivery of therapeutic agents and promoters for increased expression of protein; our method for treatment of ligament and tendon injuries; surgical tools for placing our implants; and our bone composites. The patents that cover the listed technologies have statutory expiration dates between 2015 and 2030. 

We have entered into license agreements with various academic institutions and business entities to obtain the rights to use certain patents and patent applications for the development and commercialization of our technology and products. We also rely on know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

We license from Purpose Co., Ltd. (f/k/a Takagi Sangyo Co. Ltd. and f/k/a Takagi Industrial Co., Ltd.) (Purpose) an exclusive right to 18 issued patents and 11 pending patent applications relating to an exogenous tissue processor. Through this agreement, we have a sublicense to three issued U.S. patents and six issued foreign patents owned by Brigham and Women&#146;s Hospital, Inc. (BWH) and Purpose that relate to compositions and methods for preparing multi-layered tissue constructs that include a cellular support matrix seeded with living cells derived from a native tissue and tissue culture protocols to promote the in vitro growth of tissues and tissue constructs. We also have an exclusive license to two issued U.S. patents and one pending U.S. patent application for restoration of articular cartilage matrix from the Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford Junior University. The patents that have issued or may yet issue that have been licensed to us under these agreements will have statutory expiration dates between 2021 and 2030. 

We have an exclusive license to a portfolio consisting of four families of issued patents and pending patent applications owned by Angiotech Pharmaceuticals (US), Inc. and Angiodevice International GmbH. This exclusivity is for CT3 for use in combination with intellectual property for the repair of articular cartilage, ligament, meniscus or tendon damage. The patents relate to a method of introducing rapidly gelling biodegradable collagen-PEG hydrogel to the site of injury, methods of inducing meniscal regeneration by introducing a strong adhesive to a site of injury and methods for in situ repair in which the meniscal injury is filled with an adhesive hydrogel complex consisting of methylated PEG and in which the injury is filled with the adhesive hydrogel complex and a collagen matrix. Any patents within this portfolio that have issued or may yet issue will have statutory expiration dates between 2014 and 2019. 

&#160;

We have an exclusive license to a portfolio of three patent families relating to growth factors and high level expression of heterologous proteins owned by Yeda Research and Development Co., Ltd. Any patents within this portfolio that have issued or may yet issue will have statutory expiration dates between 2016 and 2023. 

We continually assess and refine our intellectual property strategy in order to fortify our position in our target markets. We cannot ensure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending owned or in-licensed patent applications or with respect to any patent applications we may own or license in the future, nor can we be sure that any of our existing owned or in-licensed patents or any patents we may own or license in the future will be useful in protecting our technology. Please see &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#148; for additional information on the risks associated with our intellectual property strategy and portfolio. 

Material Technology License Agreements 

Purpose Co., Ltd. 

In June 2012, we amended and restated a license agreement with Purpose. Under the amended and restated agreement, Purpose granted us an exclusive, perpetual, paid-up, worldwide and sublicensable license outside of Japan to (1) make, use and sell products or services covered by claims of Purpose&#146;s patents and (2) use and create derivative works of Purpose&#146;s technology for the design, development, manufacture, testing, support and commercialization of any product or service that incorporates or builds upon Purpose&#146;s technology, in each case, only in connection with articular cartilage, ligaments, tendons and meniscus. Under the agreement, we grant Purpose an exclusive, perpetual, paid-up, sublicensable right solely in Japan under our patents and technology relating to the biotechnology and biomaterials of NeoCart and two other products in development to (1) make, use and sell products or services covered by claims of our patents and (2) use and create derivative works of our technology for the design, development, manufacture, testing, support and commercialization of any product or service that incorporates or builds upon our technology in each case, only in connection with articular cartilage, ligaments, tendons and meniscus. Purpose reserves the right to sell its single unit exogenous tissue processer machines to research institutes for general but noncommercial use anywhere in the world. 

We paid Purpose JP&#165;19,572,000 (approximately $250,000 based on an exchange rate of JP&#165;0.0128/dollar as of September 30, 2012) for costs Purpose incurred in developing a multi-unit exogenous tissue processor machine. As described below, we are obligated to pay royalties and milestone payments due on the Brigham and Women&#146;s Hospital, Inc. (BWH)-Purpose license. Our obligation to pay royalties due on the BWH-Purpose license is limited to such royalties measured by our revenue. Upon written notice to Purpose of our intent to stop using the technology in the BWH-Purpose license sublicensed to us, Purpose will reassume all responsibility under the BWH-Purpose license. Concurrent with our entering into the amended and restated license agreement with Purpose, we agreed, in the case of an initial public offering that we or our stockholders that are parties to the second amended and restated stockholders&#146; agreement will issue to Purpose immediately upon the effectiveness of our initial public offering a number of shares equal to up to 7.8125% of our equity value at the time of the offering, less our costs in connection with such offering, the amount of any of our debt and the amount of the liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred and Series A-1 Preferred shares issued to certain of our stockholders. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued Purpose 55,620 shares of our common stock in full satisfaction of this obligation. 

Under the amended and restated agreement, Purpose agreed to continue to manufacture and sell single unit exogenous tissue processor machines to us. We are obligated to cooperate with Purpose, at Purpose&#146;s expense, in its efforts to commercialize all or any portion of NeoCart and two other products in development in connection with articular cartilage, ligaments, tendons and meniscus and obtain governmental approvals required for the manufacture and sale in Japan of NeoCart and two other products in development. In addition, we are required to supply Purpose with collagen scaffold and CT3. 

Purpose exclusively sublicensed to us its rights and obligations under the BWH-Purpose license, as amended from time to time. Under the Purpose-BWH license agreement, BWH granted Purpose an exclusive, royalty-bearing, worldwide, sublicensable license, under its rights in licensed patents and patent applications co-owned 

&#160;

by BWH and Purpose, to make, use and sell (1) apparatuses for cultivating a cell or tissue, (2) tissue or cell products made using such apparatuses, (3) tissue or cell products made using processes for cultivating a cell or tissue as disclosed in the licensed patents and patent applications and (4) any apparatus that cultivates cells or tissues using such processes, in each case, whose manufacture, use, or sale is covered by the claims of the licensed patents and patent applications, only for therapeutic use. BWH may terminate this agreement if Purpose, itself or through its sublicensees, does not achieve commercial distribution and sale of the licensed products in the United States by December 31, 2019. In return for extending the termination period through December 31, 2019 pursuant to an amendment effective November 2015, we agreed to pay BWH $50,000 in November 2015 and three annual payments of $30,000 on the anniversary of the effective date of such amendment for the three years thereafter. 

Pursuant to our sublicense from Purpose, we are obligated to pay royalties and milestone payments and sublicense payments due on the BWH-Purpose license agreement. We have paid minimum royalty amounts of $180,000 and sublicense payments of $125,000 through December 31, 2015. Purpose agreed to pay BWH a royalty rate in the low single digits of our net sales of licensed products, subject to a minimum of $20,000 annually, until the license agreement terminates or until royalty payments no longer have to be made. Purpose is obligated to make one additional sublicense payment of $25,000 and milestone payments to BWH of (1) $75,000 upon the first patient treated in Phase 3 clinical trials for each licensed product or licensed process and (2) $75,000 upon final FDA approval for each licensed product or licensed process. 

The agreement remains in effect for the life of the licensed patents, expected to be until October 19, 2028. Purpose may terminate the agreement by providing written notice to BWH at least 60 days in advance. BWH has the right to terminate the agreement if Purpose fails to make minimum royalty payments or other payments or otherwise breaches the agreement and such breach is not cured within 30 days of BWH providing notice to Purpose. Upon termination of the BWH-Purpose license agreement, our sublicense will convert to a nonexclusive license to Purpose&#146;s interest in the licensed products or processes. Upon written notice to Purpose of our intent to stop using the technology sublicensed to us in the BWH-Purpose license, Purpose will reassume all responsibility under the BWH-Purpose license. 

Angiotech Pharmaceuticals (US), Inc. and Angiodevice International GmbH 

In May 2005, we entered into a worldwide license agreement with Angiotech Pharmaceuticals (US), Inc. and Angiodevice International GmbH (collectively, Angiotech) for the right, under Angiotech&#146;s licensed patents and patent applications and technical information, to make, use and sell any product that includes both our intellectual property and CT3 for the repair of articular cartilage, ligament, meniscus or tendon damage, including related osteochrondal defects. The license excludes any product in which one nonliving ingredient is included in CT3 for the primary purpose of producing a physiological, metabolic or biological effect in mammals. The license grant was made exclusive under the fifth amendment to the license agreement that came into effect in August 2010 after we paid $1.0 million to Angiotech. We have obligations to supply CT3 to Angiotech under certain terms and conditions, and Angiotech is entitled to use any data and results obtained from any clinical studies conducted by us with respect to CT3. 

As a license fee, we issued to Angiotech certain warrants to purchase from us shares of common stock, subject to certain anti-dilution protections. These warrants are no longer outstanding. We paid $1.0 million to Angiotech to make the license grant under the agreement exclusive. In addition, we paid four annual patent fees of $50,000 each as of December 31, 2015. We are also obligated to pay an additional fee of $3.0 million within 30 days after we receive regulatory approval from the FDA for a licensed product. As further consideration for the license, we also agreed to pay royalties at percentage rates of single digits of net sales of NeoCart and certain other products. We were able to reduce royalties from percentage rates of net sales in the double digits to this rate after making revenue share reduction payments that totaled $2.0 million. 

The agreement terminates on the earlier of May 12, 2035 and expiration of all royalty payment obligations under the agreement. Either party has the right to terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches the 

&#160;

agreement and fails to cure such breach within 30 days from the date of notice of such breach (ten days in the case of non-payment). We may also terminate the agreement by giving at least one year&#146;s notice. Angiotech may also terminate the agreement if we or any of our affiliates or sublicensees challenge the validity of Angiotech&#146;s patents rights or rights to improvements (or directly or indirectly support any such challenge), or if we are acquired by or merge with a third party that has developed or is marketing, or has an affiliate that has developed or is marketing, a competitive product prior to such acquisition or merger and the resulting or surviving entity post-acquisition or merger fails to either continue to develop or sell licensed product at a level reasonably similar to the development or sale that was occurring prior to the acquisition or merger, during the six-month period following the acquisition or merger. Competitive product means, in a given country, (1) a drug or biologic approved for marketing or in Phase 3 clinical development, (2) a 510(k), or foreign equivalent, device approved for marketing, or (3) an FDA Premarket Approval, or foreign equivalent, device approved for marketing or in pivotal study clinical development, other than a licensed product, that acts (or is being developed to act) for one or more target label indications substantially similar to one or more approved or target label indications for a licensed product. 

Koken Co., Ltd. 

In March 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Koken Co., Ltd. (Koken) for a non-exclusive, non-transferable and non-sublicensable right to use its know-how related to the process for manufacturing atelocollagen honeycomb sponge materials, which we use in our scaffolds. Pursuant to the agreement, we paid Koken a fee in March 2013 for such right. Koken may terminate this agreement if we fail to perform any obligation under the agreement and such failure remains uncured for more than 30 days, if we become insolvent, bankrupt, go into liquidation or receivership, or if we file for bankruptcy or a petition in bankruptcy is filed against us. 

The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford Junior University 

In April 2001, we entered into a license agreement with The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford Junior University (Stanford) for patent rights relating to the restoration of articular cartilage. Our agreement with Stanford provides us with a worldwide license to make and sell products covered by claims of the licensed patents for growth, ontogenesis, and regeneration of cartilaginous tissues and collagen. Under the agreement, Stanford agreed not to grant further licenses to such rights in such field. 

We paid Stanford $30,000 upon execution of the agreement and, as of December 31, 2015, $414,000 as reimbursement for patent-related costs incurred by Stanford. We are required to pay Stanford a yearly royalty fee of $10,000, which is creditable against earned royalty payments due on net sales of that year. We have paid $140,000 in yearly royalty fees through December 31, 2015. Stanford is also entitled to a low single digit percentage rate of our net sales in royalties. We paid Stanford milestone payments of $35,000 upon issuance of the first licensed patent and $50,000 upon initiation of Phase 1 clinical trials of the licensed product in the first field that requires separate regulatory authority clinical approval. We have paid Stanford a milestone payment of $50,000 upon initiation of Phase 1 clinical trials of the licensed product in other fields that requires separate regulatory authority clinical approval, and are obligated to pay an additional milestone payment of $300,000 upon FDA marketing approval of the first licensed product. 

The agreement terminates on the date that the last of the licensed patents expire, expected to be January 25, 2021. We may terminate the agreement by giving Stanford notice in writing at least 30 days in advance of the date of termination. Stanford has the right to terminate the agreement if we are in default in payment of royalty or providing of reports, if we are in breach of any other provisions of the agreement, or if we provide a false report to Stanford, and in each case, we fail to remedy such default, breach or false report within 30 days after written notice thereof. We are obligated to have licensed products relating to growth, ontogenesis and regeneration of cartilaginous tissue available for commercial sale by December 31, 2015. If we fail to fulfill such obligation, Stanford may terminate our rights with respect to the applicable part of the field of use. Stanford may also terminate the agreement if we or our sublicensees have not sold licensed products for a continuous period of one year after the first commercial sale of licensed products. 

&#160;

Yeda Research and Development Co., Ltd. 

In January 2008, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Yeda Research and Development Co., Ltd. (Yeda) for rights relating to high level expression of heterologous proteins and plasmid p80 BS, which rights are jointly owned by Yeda and us. Under our agreement, Yeda granted us an exclusive worldwide license under its rights for the manufacture, use and sale of heterologous proteins and plasmid p80 BS. 

We are required to pay Yeda a yearly license fee of $2,000 for the life of the license, which is creditable against royalties payable by us to Yeda during the one-year period in respect of which such fee was paid. Yeda is entitled a royalty fee of a low single digit percentage rate of our net sales of the licensed products, a low single digit percentage rate of our net sales for combination products (meaning the combination of the licensed product with at least one other active ingredient, material or medical device that would have a clinical effect if administered independently) and a low double digit percentage rate of all of our sublicensing receipts. 

The agreement terminates on a country-by-country, licensed product-by-licensed product basis on the later of (a) the date of expiration in such country of the last licensed patent covering the applicable licensed product and (b) ten years from the date of the first commercial sale of the first licensed product in that country, or, if there have not been any sales in such country, ten years from the date of the first commercial sale of the licensed product worldwide. Either party may terminate the agreement by written notice if there is an uncurable material breach or a material breach that is not cured within 30 days (14 days in the case of non-payment). 

Advanced BioMatrix, Inc. 

In April 2014, we entered into an agreement with Advanced BioMatrix, Inc. (ABM) for a nonexclusive, nontransferable (except as expressly provided in the agreement), non-sublicensable (except as provided in the agreement), perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free right and license to use its technology related to certain collagen solutions and to make, use, sell and otherwise exploit collagen solutions produced using such technology, solely for the development and commercialization, including generation, implantation and use, of engineered tissue and biomaterials in the field of orthopedics. Pursuant to the agreement, we paid fees in April and November 2014 and will pay an additional fee plus reimburse ABM for mutually agreed upon expenses for such rights and services to be performed by ABM for us in connection with such technology. This agreement will remain in effect until we or ABM provides written notice to terminate the agreement. Either party may terminate the agreement if the other party materially breaches any material term of the agreement and fails to cure such breach within 45 days after receiving notice of such breach. 

Intrexon Corporation 

In September 2014, we entered into our ECC with Intrexon governing a &#147;channel collaboration&#148; arrangement in which we will use Intrexon&#146;s current and future proprietary technology directed towards the design, identification, culturing and/or production of genetically modified cells (Technology). The ECC grants us an exclusive worldwide license to utilize Intrexon&#146;s Technology to develop and commercialize allogeneic genetically modified chondrocyte cell therapeutics for the treatment or repair of damaged articular hyaline cartilage in humans. Under the ECC, we agreed that we would not pursue, outside of our relationship with Intrexon, the utilization of any synthetic biology platform in conjunction with a universal cell line for the development or commercialization of any products for the purpose of treating and/or repairing damaged articular hyaline cartilage in humans where such products would compete with commercial products resulting from our collaboration with Intrexon. 

Contemporaneously with entering into the ECC, we issued a 6% convertible promissory note (the Note) in the principal amount of $10.0 million as partial consideration for the execution and delivery of our ECC with Intrexon. The Note converted into 918,206 shares of our common stock in connection with our initial public offering. 

&#160;

The ECC provides for the establishment of committees comprised of equal numbers of representatives from Intrexon and our company that will govern activities in the areas of project establishment, chemistry, manufacturing and controls, clinical and regulatory matters, commercialization efforts and intellectual property. 

Pursuant to the ECC, we are responsible for the research and development costs incurred by Intrexon associated with the development of product candidates developed under our collaboration, the effect of which may increase the level of our overall research and development expenses. Subject to certain exceptions, we will be responsible for, among other things, funding the further anticipated development of cell lines toward the goal of commercialization, conducting preclinical and clinical development of candidate product(s), as well as for other aspects of manufacturing and the commercialization of the product(s). Among other things, Intrexon will be responsible for technology discovery efforts and cell line development. We will reimburse Intrexon for 50% of the costs it incurs under the ECC pursuant to a jointly agreed upon work plan prior to the acceptance by the FDA or equivalent regulatory agency in an applicable jurisdiction of an IND or equivalent regulatory filing for a collaboration product, and the remaining 50% of such costs after such filing acceptance by the FDA or equivalent regulatory authority. 

We will pay Intrexon a royalty fee of a low double digit percentage of the gross profit derived from the sale of products developed from ECC. We will also pay Intrexon an intermediate double digit percentage of sublicensing revenue we may receive pursuant to certain conditions set forth in the ECC. 

We have also agreed to make certain payments to Intrexon upon our achievement of designated commercialization and sales milestones in the form of shares of our common stock (based upon the fair market value of the shares otherwise required to be issued) or, at our option, a cash payment. The amounts payable upon milestone events are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $500,000 within 30 days of the first instance of the achievement of the IND Filing Milestone Event; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $2,500,000 within 30 days of the first instance of the achievement of the IND Acceptance Milestone Event; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $3,000,000 within 30 days of the first instance of the achievement of the Phase III Milestone Event; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $5,000,000 within 30 days of the first instance of the achievement of the Approval Milestone Event; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $1,000,000 within 30 days of each instance of the achievement of the Approval Amendment Milestone Event. The cumulative sales milestones from the sale of products developed under the ECC are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $5,000,000 within 30 days of the first instance that cumulative net sales reach $300,000,000; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $7,500,000 within 30 days of the first instance that cumulative net sales reach $650,000,000; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; $10,000,000 within 30 days of the first instance that cumulative net sales reach $1,000,000,000. In the event that we consummate an acquisition of our company prior to paying to Intrexon any one or more of the milestone payments and the ECC is transferred or assigned to the buyer in connection with such acquisition, then all subsequent milestone payments will thereafter each be payable only in cash to Intrexon. 

The ECC shall continue until it is terminated pursuant to certain triggering events, as specified in the ECC. We may voluntarily terminate the ECC at any time upon 90 days&#146; written notice to Intrexon. Either party may terminate the ECC upon 60 days&#146; written notice following a material breach, and failure to cure such breach by the other party. Intrexon may also terminate the ECC if: we fail to pursue therapies demonstrably superior to existing therapies and those under development by us using the Technology to commercialize products under the ECC; or we attempt to assign the ECC, other than as permitted under the ECC. 

&#160;

Upon termination of the ECC, we may continue to develop and commercialize any product developed under the ECC that, at the time of termination satisfies at least one of the following criteria: (i) the product is being sold by us triggering profit sharing payments under the ECC to Intrexon; (ii) the product has received regulatory approval; (iii) the product is a subject of an application for regulatory approval in the field covered by the ECC that is pending before the applicable regulatory authority; and (iv) the particular product is the subject of at least an ongoing or completed human clinical trial wherein the product was implanted into at least one patient. 

Competition 

The regenerative medicine industry is characterized by innovative science, rapidly advancing technologies and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, development experience, scientific knowledge and intellectual property portfolio provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and regenerative medicine companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. 

The competitive landscape in the field of articular cartilage repair is emerging and has stimulated a substantial amount of interest from companies developing tissue repair solutions. Companies have employed a variety of approaches to meet the goals of cartilage repair. The approaches, which represent the scientific evolution of the field, can be generally categorized in five ways: (1) non-cell-based, such as Arthrosurface&#146;s HemiCAP and Anika&#146;s Hyalofast; (2) uncultured cell-based (with or without scaffold), such as Zimmer&#146;s DeNovo NT, Arthrex&#146;s BioCartilage and Osiris&#146; Cartiform, distributed exclusively with Arthrex; (3) cultured cell-based (without scaffold), such as Vericel&#146;s Carticel and ISTO&#146;s RevaFlex; (4) cultured cell- and scaffold-based, such as Vericel&#146;s MACI and the Aesculap division of B. Braun Medical&#146;s NovoCart 3D; and (5) cultured cell- and scaffold-based incorporating tissue engineering, such as NeoCart. 

For knee cartilage repair and regeneration, the market is large and growing, driven by more knee injuries in an increasingly active population. Worldwide, many products are commercially available, but the majority of these products are currently only available in the EEA, with Carticel, which was approved by the FDA in 1997, whose label restricts it for use in salvage cases, being the only cartilage repair product to gain U.S. approval through a regulated path to market. RevaFlex and NovoCart 3D are in U.S. clinical development, and based on our internal analysis of publicly available information, we believe may be approved in 2023 and 2020, respectively. However, their early clinical data have not been published in highly regarded peer-reviewed journals. Vericel&#146;s MACI has completed European clinical studies and, in January 2016, Vericel submitted a BLA for MACI to the FDA. If approved, MACI would likely be the second FDA approved product to treat cartilage defects in the knee. Although minimally-modified cells such as DeNovo NT, which launched in the United States in 2007, and acellular cartilage matrix products such as Cartiform and Arthrex&#146;s BioCartilage and are available in the United States, their path to market did not require a rigorous regulatory path and their clinical data to date has been sparse and commercial uptake limited. Product-less procedures such as debridement and microfracture continue to dominate the U.S. market. 

Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. Our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources that could put them at an advantage in the development of safe and efficacious products and may help them obtain regulatory approval for their products more rapidly, as well as achieve more widespread market acceptance. We believe, however, the competitive benefits of NeoCart will allow us to position NeoCart effectively as a strong contender in the tissue repair market. 

Outside the United States, many procedures and products for cartilage repair are available. However, we anticipate that many of these are unlikely to seek approval in the United States because of the rigorous and lengthy regulatory path a sponsor must pursue in order to access the market and the high-quality superiority data that must be produced. Additionally, other than the few currently approved U.S. products, to our knowledge no other known European cartilage product to date has any clinical experience or data in U.S. patients. 

&#160;

Government Regulation 

Regulatory Background on Autologous Cellular Products 

The FDA does not apply a single regulatory scheme to human tissues and the products derived from human tissue. On a product-by-product basis, the FDA may regulate such products as drugs, biologics, or medical devices, in addition to regulating them as human cells, tissues, or cellular or tissue-based products (HCT/Ps), depending on whether or not the particular product triggers any of an enumerated list of regulatory factors. A fundamental difference in the treatment of products under these classifications is that the FDA generally permits HCT/Ps that do not trigger any of those regulatory factors to be commercially distributed without marketing approval. In contrast, products that trigger those factors, such as if they are more than minimally manipulated when processed or manufactured, are regulated as drugs, biologics, or medical devices and require FDA approval. The FDA has designated NeoCart as a biologic under the jurisdiction of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and market access or approval will require BLA approval. 

In 1997, the FDA began requiring BLA filing for autologous cellular products and approved the already-marketed Carticel contingent on further clinical trials. In 2000, Carticel&#146;s indication narrowed to second-line therapy for patients with inadequate response to prior treatment. As of December 2011, the FDA requires evidence of clinical efficacy against approved and validated endpoints and standard of care control arm as outlined in their final guidance on the subject of cartilage repair. 

The grant of marketing authorization in the EEA for products containing viable human tissues or cells such as NeoCart is governed by Regulation 1394/2007/EC on advanced therapy medicinal products, read in combination with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, commonly known and the Community code on medicinal products. Regulation 1394/2007/EC lays down specific rules concerning the authorization, supervision and pharmacovigilance of gene therapy medicinal products, somatic cell therapy medicinal products and tissue engineered products. Manufacturers of advanced therapy medicinal products must demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of their products to the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which is required to provide an opinion regarding the application for marketing authorization. The European Commission grants or refuses marketing authorization in light of the opinion delivered by the EMA. 

Applicants for marketing authorization for medicinal products in the EEA are required to submit applications for marketing authorization based on the ICH Common Technical Document and must demonstrate the safety, quality and efficacy of the medicinal product for which the marketing authorization is sought. The application must include the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials conducted with the medicinal product. The conduct of clinical trials in the EEA is governed by Directive 2001/20/EC which imposes obligations and procedures that are similar to those provided in applicable U.S. laws. The obligations provided in the European Union (EU) Good Clinical Practice rules and EU Good Laboratory Practice must also be respected during conduct of the trials. Clinical trials must be approved by the competent regulatory authorities and the competent Ethics Committees in the EU Member States in which the clinical trials take place. Moreover, applicants are required to demonstrate that studies have been conducted with the medicinal product in the pediatric population as provided by a Pediatric Investigation Plan approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA. Alternatively, confirmation that the applicant has obtained a waiver or deferral for the conduct of these studies must be provided. 

Anticipated FDA Regulatory and Approval Process for NeoCart 

We anticipate NeoCart, if approved, to be the first autologous cell- and scaffold-based product in the U.S. market to have been studied in a randomized controlled trial with a rigorous responder analysis under an approved SPA. 

The FDA approved the NeoCart Phase 3 study design under the SPA process and concluded that the trial &#147;design and planned analyses &#133; sufficiently address the studies&#146; objectives &#133; these studies are adequately designed to provide the necessary data that &#133; could support a license application submission.&#148; We anticipate the SPA to be binding on the FDA review division, with limited exceptions provided by FDA guidance, such as the FDA 

&#160;

&#147;determines that a substantial issue essential to determining the safety or efficacy of the [product] has been identified after the testing has begun,&#148; or if we fail to follow the agreed-upon protocol. 

Reimbursement 

In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of any regulatory-approved products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and managed care providers, and other organizations. Reimbursement policy involves coding, coverage and payment decisions and our business strategy is to produce the necessary information for optimal decision-making by payors. 

Coding : While reimbursement policy for NeoCart is uncertain at this point, we believe that the existing Current Procedural Terminology, Healthcare Commission Procedure Coding System and International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Edition coding options for ACI are sufficiently broad that they could apply to NeoCart. 

Coverage : Our goal is to demonstrate improved health outcomes (e.g., improved patient outcomes and quality of life on several parameters, lower total costs including lower overall utilization of healthcare services and faster return to work) for patients receiving NeoCart compared to microfracture, an important element in securing coverage decisions by payors (Medicare and private payors). 

Payment : Analysis of recent trends in ACI coverage (discharge data) suggest that patients between 18 and 64 years of age constitute the majority of the market for ACI, resulting in a market dominated by private payors. Only 10% to 20% of ACI patients are estimated to be 65 years of age and older. While limited data is available for private payor reimbursement of ACI, these payors typically reimburse inpatient procedures with bundling mechanisms similar to Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Groups. In addition, some private payors also tend to use Medicare rates as benchmarks when setting their own fee schedules. In preparation for the potential launch of NeoCart, if ever, we are developing a reimbursement dossier to facilitate the introduction of NeoCart into the marketplace. In November 2014, we submitted a protocol amendment to the FDA to augment additional Health Economics Outcomes Research data to further support our future reimbursement initiatives. These data would collect additional key economic data and outcomes associated with quality of life, productivity and return to work status, and healthcare resource utilization related to direct and indirect costs. Upon receipt of this data we plan to provide objective clinical data, patient-reported quality of life data and health economic data demonstrating NeoCart&#146;s value to assist in optimizing payment decisions for NeoCart. 

Government Regulation Overview 

United States 

Overview 

In the United States, the FDA regulates biological products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act and related regulations. Biological products are also subject to other federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of biological products. These agencies and other federal, state, local, and foreign entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, record keeping, reporting, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, including clinical testing, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. 

Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of product candidates for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that the FDA or any other regulatory agency will grant 

&#160;

approvals for NeoCart or any future product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA&#146;s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of NeoCart or any future product candidates or approval of new disease indications or label changes. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative, judicial, or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. 

Marketing Approval 

The process required by the FDA before biological products may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of nonclinical laboratory and animal tests according to good laboratory practices, and applicable requirements for the humane use of laboratory animals or other applicable regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND application which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to the FDA&#146;s regulations commonly referred to as good clinical practices (GCP), and any additional requirements for the protection of human research patients and their health information, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed biological product for its intended use or uses; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a BLA for marketing approval that includes substantive evidence of safety, purity, and potency from results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities where the biological product is produced to assess compliance with good manufacturing practices (GMP) to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the biological product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity and, if applicable, the FDA&#146;s current good tissue practices (GTP) for the use of human cellular and tissue products to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; potential FDA audit of the nonclinical study sites and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the BLA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval, or licensure, of the BLA, which must occur before a biological product can be marketed or sold. U.S. Biological Products Development Process 

Before testing any biological product candidate in humans, the product candidate enters the nonclinical testing stage. Nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the product candidate. The conduct of the nonclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including good laboratory practices. 

Prior to commencing the first clinical trial, the clinical trial sponsor must submit the results of the nonclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of an initial IND application. Some nonclinical testing may continue even after the IND application is submitted. The IND application automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such case, the IND application sponsor must resolve any outstanding concerns with the FDA before the clinical trial may begin. Further, an IRB for each site proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that site. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of study subjects and considers such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the form and content of the informed consent that must be signed by each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the 

&#160;

clinical trial until completed. The FDA or IRB may impose clinical holds on a biological product candidate at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, trials may not recommence without FDA or IRB authorization and then only under terms authorized by the FDA and IRB. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that submission of an IND application will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin or that, once begun, issues will not arise that will result in the suspension or termination of such trials. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the biological product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor&#146;s control. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety, including stopping rules that assure a clinical trial will be stopped if certain adverse events should occur. Each protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND application and to the IRB. 

For purposes of BLA approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1&#151;The biological product is initially introduced into healthy human patients and tested for safety. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is conducted in patients. These trials may also provide early evidence on effectiveness. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2&#151;These trials are conducted in a limited number of patients in the target population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive Phase 3 clinical trials. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3&#151;Phase 3 trials are undertaken to provide statistically significant evidence of clinical efficacy and to further evaluate dosage, potency and safety in an expanded patient population at multiple clinical trial sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the product has been obtained, and are intended to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the investigational product and to provide an adequate basis for product approval and labeling. Post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These trials may be required by the FDA as a condition of approval and are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication, particularly for long-term safety follow-up. The FDA now has express statutory authority to require post-market clinical trials to address safety issues. All of these trials must be conducted in accordance with GCP requirements in order for the data to be considered reliable for regulatory purposes. 

During all phases of clinical development, regulatory agencies require extensive monitoring and auditing of all clinical activities, clinical data and clinical trial investigators. Annual progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted to the FDA. Written IND safety reports must be promptly submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events; any findings from other studies, tests in laboratory animals or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk for human patients; or any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The sponsor must submit an IND safety report within 15 calendar days after the sponsor determines that the information qualifies for reporting. The sponsor also must notify the FDA of any unexpected fatal or life-threatening suspected adverse reaction within seven calendar days after the sponsor&#146;s initial receipt of the information. 

Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. Regulatory authorities, a data safety monitoring board or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time 

&#160;

on various grounds, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the biological product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our product candidates may not begin or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; reaching agreement with third-party clinical trial sites and their subsequent performance in conducting accurate and reliable trials on a timely basis; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtaining IRB approval to conduct a trial at a prospective site; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; recruiting patients to participate in a trial; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; supply of the biological product. Typically, if a biological product is intended to treat a chronic disease, as is the case with NeoCart, safety and efficacy data must be gathered over an extended period of time, which can range from six months to three years or more. Success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the physical characteristics of the biological product as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with GMP requirements. To help reduce the risk of the introduction of adventitious agents with the use of biological products, the Public Health Service Act emphasizes the importance of manufacturing control for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the sponsor must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality, potency and purity of the final biological product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the biological product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

U.S. Review and Approval Processes 

In order to obtain approval to market a biological product in the United States, a BLA must be submitted to the FDA that provides data establishing to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction the safety, purity and potency of the investigational biological product for the proposed indication. The application includes all data available from nonclinical studies and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s manufacture and composition, and proposed labeling, among other things. The testing and approval processes require substantial time and effort, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will accept the BLA for filing and, even if filed, that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), each BLA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. According to the FDA&#146;s fee schedule, effective beginning on October 1, 2013 and in effect through December 31, 2014, the user fee for an application requiring clinical data, such as a BLA, will be $2.2 million for 2014. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for biologics ($104,060 for 2014), and an annual establishment fee ($554,600 for 2014) on facilities used to manufacture prescription biologics. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on BLAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication. 

&#160;

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of a BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the FDA&#146;s threshold determination that the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission and may request additional information. In this event, the BLA must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. After the BLA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the BLA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and potent, or effective, for its intended use, and has an acceptable purity profile, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with GMPs to assure and preserve the product&#146;s identity, safety, strength, quality, potency, and purity, and biological product standards. The FDA may refer applications for novel biological products or biological products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and, if so, under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving a BLA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with GMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. For a human cellular or tissue product, the FDA also will not approve the product if the manufacturer is not in compliance with the GTP. These are FDA regulations that govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture of HCT/Ps, which are human cells or tissue intended for implantation, transplant, infusion, or transfer into a human recipient. The primary intent of the GTP requirements is to ensure that cell and tissue based products are manufactured in a manner designed to prevent the introduction, transmission and spread of communicable disease. FDA regulations also require tissue establishments to register and list their HCT/Ps with the FDA and, when applicable, to evaluate donors through screening and testing. Additionally, before approving a BLA, the FDA may inspect one or more clinical sites to assure that the clinical trials were conducted in compliance with IND application study requirements and GCP. To assure GMP, GTP and GCP compliance, an applicant must incur significant expenditure of time, money and effort. If the FDA determines the manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it typically will outline the deficiencies and often will require the facility to take corrective action and provide documentation evidencing the implementation of such corrective action. This may significantly delay further review of the application. If the FDA finds that a clinical site did not conduct the clinical trial in accordance with GCP, the FDA may determine the data generated by the clinical site should be excluded from the primary efficacy analyses provided in the BLA and request additional testing or data. Additionally, notwithstanding the submission of any requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

The FDA also has authority to require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) from manufacturers to ensure that the benefits of a biological product outweigh its risks. A sponsor may also voluntarily propose a REMS as part of the BLA submission. The need for a REMS is determined as part of the review of the BLA. Based on statutory standards, elements of a REMS may include &#147;dear doctor letters,&#148; a medication guide, more elaborate targeted educational programs, and in some cases restrictions on distribution. These elements are negotiated as part of the BLA approval, and in some cases may delay the approval date. Once adopted, REMS are subject to periodic assessment and modification. 

After the FDA completes its initial review of a BLA, it will communicate to the sponsor that the biological product will either be approved, or it will issue a complete response letter to communicate that the BLA will not be approved in its current form. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the BLA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical trials. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the applicant in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the BLA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

&#160;

The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. We may encounter difficulties or unanticipated costs in our efforts to secure necessary governmental approvals, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our products. The testing and approval process for a biological product usually takes several years to complete. 

One of the performance goals agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA is to review 90% of standard BLAs within ten months of the 60-day filing date and 90% of priority BLAs within six months of the 60-day filing date, whereupon a review decision is to be made. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority BLAs and its review goals are subject to change from time to time. The review process and the PDUFA goal data may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or the BLA applicant otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the last three months before the PDUFA goal date. 

Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages, or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings, or precautions be included in the product labeling. The FDA may impose restrictions and conditions on product distribution, prescribing or dispensing in the form of a risk management plan, or otherwise limit the scope of any approval. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 post-marketing clinical trials, designed to further assess a biological product&#146;s safety and effectiveness, and testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in the imposition of new restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain and maintain, regulatory approval for NeoCart, or obtaining approval but for significantly limited use, would harm our business. 

FDA Post-Approval Requirements 

Maintaining substantial compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Rigorous and extensive FDA regulation of biological products continues after approval, particularly with respect to GMP. We may rely, in the future, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of any future products that we may commercialize. Manufacturers of our products are required to comply with applicable requirements in the GMP regulations, including quality control and quality assurance and maintenance of records and documentation. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future suppliers will be able to comply with the GMP and other FDA regulatory requirements. Other post-approval requirements applicable to biological products include reporting of GMP deviations that may affect the identity, potency, purity and overall safety of a distributed product, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse effects, reporting updated safety and efficacy information and complying with electronic record and signature requirements. After a BLA is approved, the product also may be subject to official lot release. As part of the manufacturing process, the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product before it is released for distribution. If the product is subject to official release by the FDA, the manufacturer submits samples of each lot of product to the FDA together with a release protocol showing a summary of the history of manufacture of the lot and the results of all of the manufacturer&#146;s tests performed on the lot. The FDA also may perform certain confirmatory tests on lots of some products, such as viral vaccines, before releasing the lots for distribution by the manufacturer. In addition, the FDA conducts laboratory research related to the regulatory standards on the safety, purity, potency and effectiveness of biological products. 

Discovery of previously unknown problems or the failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, by us or our suppliers, may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions and adverse publicity. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, suspension or revocation of an approval, clinical hold, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, 

&#160;

injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, debarment, restitution, disgorgement of profits or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Biological product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved biological products are required to register their facilities with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with GMPs and other laws. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process or facility generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

Labeling, Marketing and Promotion 

The FDA closely regulates the labeling, marketing and promotion of biological products, including direct-to-consumer advertising, promotional activities involving the internet, and industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. While doctors are free to prescribe any product approved by the FDA for any use, a company can only make claims relating to safety and efficacy of a biological product that are consistent with FDA approval, and the company is allowed to market a biological product only for the particular use and treatment approved by the FDA. In addition, any claims we make for our products in advertising or promotion must be appropriately balanced with important safety and risk information and otherwise be adequately substantiated. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising, injunctions, seizures, potential civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from government healthcare programs. 

Anti-Kickback and False Claims Laws 

In the United States, the research, manufacture, distribution, sale and promotion of biological products are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (for example, the Office of Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice, state Attorneys General, and other federal, state and local government agencies. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the privacy regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, and the Veterans Health Care Act. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 

As noted above, in the United States, we are subject to complex laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare &#147;fraud and abuse,&#148; including the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act and other state and federal laws and regulations. The Anti-Kickback Statute makes it illegal for any person, including a biological product manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf), to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer, or pay any remuneration that is intended to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or order of an item for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violations of this law are punishable by up to five years in prison, criminal fines, administrative civil money penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In addition, many states have adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any insurer, not just federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Due to the breadth of these federal and state anti-kickback laws and the potential for additional legal or regulatory change in this area, it is possible that our future sales and marketing practices or our future relationships with physicians might be challenged under anti-kickback laws, which could harm us. Because we intend to commercialize products that could be reimbursed under a federal healthcare program and other governmental 

&#160;

healthcare programs, we plan to develop a comprehensive compliance program that establishes internal controls to facilitate adherence to the rules and program requirements to which we will or may become subject. 

The False Claims Act prohibits anyone from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to federal programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for items or services, including biological products, that are false or fraudulent. Although we likely would not submit claims directly to payers, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to &#147;cause&#148; the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. In addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state and third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. For example, pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under the False Claims Act in connection with their off-label promotion of drugs. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, and, although the federal False Claims Act is a civil statute, conduct that results in a False Claims Act violation may also implicate various federal criminal statutes. If the government were to allege that we were, or convict us of, violating these false claims laws, we could be subject to a substantial fine and may suffer a decline in our stock price. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions under the False Claims Act and certain states have enacted laws modeled after the False Claims Act. 

There are also an increasing number of state laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws. In addition, beginning in August 2013, a similar federal requirement requires manufacturers to track and report to the federal government certain payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals made in the previous calendar year. These laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by imposing administrative and compliance burdens on us. In addition, given the lack of clarity with respect to these laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state, and soon federal, authorities. 

Other Regulations 

We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future. 

EU and EEA 

Marketing authorization in the EU for products containing viable human tissues or cells such as NeoCart is governed by Regulation 1394/2007/EC on advanced therapy medicinal products, read in combination with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European parliament and of the Council, commonly known as the Community code on medicinal products. Regulation 1394/2007/EC establishes specific rules concerning the authorization, supervision and pharmacovigilance of gene therapy medicinal products, somatic cell therapy medicinal products and tissue engineered products. Manufacturers of advanced therapy medicinal products must demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of their products to the EMA which is required to provide an opinion regarding the application for marketing authorization. The European Commission grants or refuses marketing authorization in light of the opinion delivered by the EMA. 

Applicants for marketing authorizations for medicinal products in the EEA are required to submit applications for marketing authorization in a form that is based on the ICH Common Technical Document, and must 

&#160;

demonstrate the safety, quality and efficacy of the medicinal product for which the marketing authorization is sought. The application must include the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials conducted with the medicinal product. 

The conduct of clinical trials in the EEA is governed by Directive 2001/20/EC which imposes obligations and procedures that are similar to those provided in applicable U.S. laws. The EU Good Clinical Practice rules and EU Good Laboratory Practice obligations must also be respected during conduct of the trials. Clinical trials must be approved by the competent regulatory authorities and the competent Ethics Committees in the EU Member States in which the clinical trials take place. 

Moreover, applicants are required to provide evidence that studies have been conducted with the medicinal product in the pediatric population as provided by a Pediatric Investigation Plan approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA. Alternatively, confirmation that the applicant has obtained a waiver or deferral for the conduct of these studies must be provided. Cell-based products must also comply with Directive 2004/23/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of March 31, 2004 on setting standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells (Tissues and Cells Directive). This Directive describes the conditions and quality requirements which must be applied when sourcing the cells intended for manufacturing of the cell-based medicinal product. The EU Member States have transposed the Tissues and Cells Directive into their national laws. 

Locally different interpretations of the Tissue and Cells Directive have occurred during adoption of the national legal implementations by individual EU Member States. This has led to some inconsistency of approach leading to additional complexity in complying with the all-over requirements in this already difficult regulatory field. 

Given the specific nature of cell-based products, the clinical development paths are less standardized than for classic pharmaceutical or biological products. Phase 1 studies are often not relevant, in particular for autologous cell-based products, since cells often need to be directly implanted into a tissue defect only present in patients. As cellular therapy Phase 3 studies are very complex to organize, often limited numbers of patients can be enrolled and follow up times can be very long, so that the design and execution of these large confirmatory trials might not always be possible to the classical extent. Upfront discussions and agreement with the regulatory authorities are an important criterion to success. It is also expected that new regulatory guidance will become available in the near future, more clearly describing the regulatory expectations. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 49 full-time employees, including seven in research and development, nine in clinical development, one in regulatory, 24 in manufacturing and quality control and assurance, and eight in executive, general and administrative. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees is represented by a labor organization or under any collective bargaining arrangements. 

Corporate Information 

We were originally incorporated as a Massachusetts corporation in 2000. In 2006, we underwent a corporate reorganization pursuant to which we were incorporated as a Delaware corporation. Our principal offices are located at 830 Winter Street, 3rd Floor, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, and our telephone number is (781) 547-7900. Our website address is www.histogenics.com. Our website and the information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and are not considered part of, this annual report. You should not rely on any such information in making your decision whether to purchase our common stock. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). The 

&#160;

public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge at our website, www.histogenics.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Our code of ethics, other corporate policies and procedures, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee are available through our website at www.histogenics.com. 

&#160;

