 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

As used herein, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, all references to &#8220;Orion,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;Company&#8221; and similar references are to Orion Energy Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Overview 

We are a leading designer and manufacturer of high-performance, energy-efficient lighting platforms. We research, develop, design, manufacture, market, sell and implement energy management systems consisting primarily of high-performance, energy-efficient commercial and industrial interior and exterior lighting systems and related services. Our products are targeted for applications in three primary market segments: (i.) commercial office and retail; (ii.) area lighting and (iii.) industrial applications, although we do sell and install products into other markets. Virtually all of our sales occur within North America. 

We are primarily focused on providing commercial and industrial facilities lighting retrofit solutions in North America using solid state Light Emitting Diode (&#8220;LED&#8221;) technology. Our principal customers include national accounts, energy service companies, electrical contractors and electrical distributors. Currently, substantially all of our products are manufactured at our production facility location in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, although we are increasingly sourcing products and components from third parties as the LED market continues to evolve in order to have versatility in our product development. 

While we continue to provide solutions using our legacy High Intensity Fluorescent (&#8220;HIF&#8221;) technology, we believe the market for lighting products has shifted to LED lighting systems. Compared to legacy lighting systems, LED lighting allows for better optical performance, significantly reduced maintenance costs due to performance longevity and reduced energy consumption. Due to their size and flexibility in application we also believe that LED lighting systems can address opportunities for retrofit applications that cannot be satisfied by other legacy technologies. LED lighting technologies are now the primary component of our revenue as we strive to be the leader in the industry transition to LED lighting technology. According to a July 2015 United States Department of Energy report ("DOE report"), we estimate the potential North American LED retrofit market within our key product categories to be approximately 1.1 billion lighting fixtures. In fiscal 2016, our LED lighting sales totaled $45,679,000, or 71%, of our total lighting product revenue, compared to $30,800,000, or 48%, of our total lighting product revenue for fiscal 2015. We plan to continue to primarily focus on developing and selling innovative LED products, although we will continue to market and sell legacy HIF solutions in circumstances in which LED solutions may not be our customers' best alternative. 

Reportable Segments 

Reportable segments are components of an entity that have separate financial data that the entity's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews when allocating resources and assessing performance. Our CODM is our chief executive officer. Orion has three reportable segments: Orion U.S. Markets Division ("USM"), Orion Engineered Systems Division ("OES"), and Orion Distribution Services Division ("ODS"). 

Orion U.S. Markets Division ("USM") 

The USM division develops and sells our commercial lighting systems and energy management systems to the wholesale contractor markets. Our U.S. Markets customers include domestic energy service companies ("ESCOs") and electrical contractors. 

Our in-market sales force is focused on developing indirect customers which have represented a larger portion of our lighting revenue in recent years. We believe the effective expansion of our indirect customer base will help to increase our total revenue and operating profit to the extent we are successful in increasing our overall market coverage and awareness in regional and local markets. 

Orion Engineered Systems Division ("OES") 

The OES division develops and sells lighting products and provides construction and engineering services for our commercial LED and High Intensity Fluorescent ("HIF") lighting and energy management systems. OES provides turnkey solutions for large national accounts, governments, municipalities and schools. 

Orion Distribution Services Division ("ODS") 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;The ODS division focuses on selling our lighting products through manufacturer representative agencies and a network of broadline North American distributors. ODS had growth in fiscal 2016 to revenues of $2,476,000 from revenues of $978,000 in fiscal 2015, with a majority of that business transacting through broadline distributors. 

For financial results by reportable segment, please refer to Note 10, "Segment Data" in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Table of Contents 

Our Market Opportunity 

We are primarily focused on providing commercial and industrial facilities lighting retrofit solutions in North America using solid state LED technology. While we continue to provide solutions using our legacy HIF technology, we believe the market for lighting products has shifted to LED lighting systems. Compared to legacy lighting systems, LED lighting technology allows for better optical performance, significantly reduced maintenance costs due to performance longevity and reduced energy consumption. Due to their size and flexibility in application we also believe that LED lighting systems can address opportunities for retrofit applications that cannot be satisfied by fluorescent or other legacy technologies. 

Our products deliver energy savings and efficiency gains to our commercial and industrial customers without compromising their quantity or quality of light. We estimate that our energy management systems reduce our customers&#8217; lighting-related electricity costs by approximately 50% to 80%, while increasing their quantity of light by approximately 50% and improving lighting quality when replacing traditional fixtures. Our customers typically realize a one to three year payback period from electricity cost savings generated by our lighting systems without considering utility incentives or government subsidies. We have sold and installed our lighting products in over 13,550 &#32;facilities across North America, representing approximately 2 billion &#32;square feet of commercial and industrial building space, including sales to 178 of the Fortune 500 companies. 

Energy-efficient lighting systems are cost-effective and environmentally responsible solutions allowing end users to reduce operating expenses. Based on a July 2015 report published by the United States Department of Energy, or DOE, we estimate the potential North American HIF and LED retrofit market within our primary markets to be approximately 7 billion lighting fixtures. Our primary markets are: (i) commercial office and retail, (ii) area lighting and (iii) industrial high bay applications. 

Commercial office and retail. Our commercial office and retail market includes commercial office buildings, retail store fronts, government offices, schools and other buildings with traditional ten to twelve foot ceiling heights. The DOE estimates that there are approximately 980 million office troffer fixtures within the United States, which is a rectangular light fixture that fits into a modular dropped ceiling grid. We believe we have the opportunity to increase our revenue by serving this market with our LED Door Retrofit, or LDR TM , lighting solutions. 

Area lighting. Our market for area lighting includes parking garages, surface lots, automobile dealerships and gas service stations. The DOE estimates that there are approximately 65 million area lighting fixtures within the United States and an additional 44 million roadway lighting fixtures in the United States. 

Industrial applications. Our market for industrial facilities includes manufacturing facilities, distribution and warehouse facilities, government buildings and agricultural buildings. These facilities typically contain high bay lighting fixtures. The DOE estimates that there are approximately 139 million low/high bay fixtures within the United States. We estimate that approximately 50% of this market still utilizes inefficient High Intensity Discharge ("HID") lighting technologies. 

Commercial and industrial facilities in the United States employ a variety of lighting technologies, including HID, traditional fluorescents, LED and incandescent lighting fixtures. Our lighting systems typically replace less efficient HID and HIF fixtures. According to the Electric Power Research Institute, or EPRI, HID fixtures only convert approximately 36% of the energy they consume into visible light. We estimate our lighting systems generally reduce lighting-related electricity costs by approximately 50% to 80% compared to HID fixtures, while increasing the quantity of light by approximately 50% and improving lighting quality. 

We believe that utilities within the United States recognize the importance of energy efficiency as an economical means to manage capacity constraints and as a low-cost alternative when compared to the construction costs of building new power plants. Accordingly, many of these utilities are continually focused on demand reduction through energy efficiency. According to our research of individual state and utility programs, 49 states, through legislation, regulation or voluntary action, have seen their utilities design and fund programs that promote or deliver energy efficiency. In fact, as of May 31, 2016, only Alaska, Delaware, and Maine do not currently have some form of utility or state energy efficiency programs for any of their commercial or industrial customers. Our products are not solely dependent upon these incentive programs, but we do believe that these incentive programs provide an important benefit as our customers evaluate their out-of-pocket cash investments. 

Our Solution 

50/50 Value Proposition. We estimate our lighting systems generally reduce lighting-related electricity costs by approximately 50% to 80% compared to legacy fixtures, while increasing the quantity of light by approximately 50% and improving lighting quality. In the commercial office and retail markets, we estimate our lighting systems generally reduce electricity costs by 50%. From December 1, 2001 through March 31, 2016 , we believe that the use of our HIF and LED fixtures has saved our customers $3.7 billion in electricity costs and reduced their energy consumption by 48.2 billion &#32;kWh. 

Multi-Facility Roll-Out Capability. &#32;We offer our customers a single source, turnkey solution for project implementation in which we manage and maintain responsibility for entire multi-facility roll-outs of our energy management solutions across North American commercial and industrial facility portfolios. This capability allows us to offer our customers an orderly, timely and scheduled process for recognizing energy reductions and cost savings. 

Table of Contents 

Rapid Payback Period. In most retrofit projects where we replace HID and HIF fixtures, our customers typically realize a one to three year payback period on our lighting systems. These returns are achieved without considering utility incentives or government subsidies (although subsidies and incentives are continually being made available to our customers and us in connection with the installation of our systems that further shorten payback periods). 

Easy Installation, Implementation and Maintenance. Most of our HIF and LED fixtures are designed with a lightweight construction and modular plug-and-play architecture that allows for fast and easy installation, facilitates maintenance and allows for easy integration of other components of our energy management system. Our office LED LDR TM &#32;products are designed to allow for a fast and easy installation without disrupting the ceiling space or the office work space. We believe our system&#8217;s design reduces installation time and expense compared to other lighting solutions, which further improves our customers&#8217; return on investment. We also believe that our use of standard components reduces our customers&#8217; ongoing maintenance costs. 

Expanded Product Offerings. &#32;We are committed to continue developing LED product offerings in all of the markets we serve. 

Environmental Benefits. By allowing for the permanent reduction of electricity consumption, our energy management systems reduce indirect CO2 emissions that are a negative by-product of energy generation. We estimate that one of our LED or HIF lighting systems, when replacing a standard HID fixture, displaces 0.245 kW of electricity, which, based on information provided by the EPA, reduces a customer&#8217;s indirect CO2 emissions by approximately 1.2 tons per year. Based on these figures, we estimate that the use of our HIF and LED fixtures has reduced indirect CO2 emissions by approximately 29.3 million &#32;tons through March 31, 2016 . 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Compelling Value Proposition. By permanently reducing lighting-related electricity usage, our systems enable our customers to achieve significant cost savings, without compromising the quantity or quality of light in their facilities. As a result, our products offer our customers a rapid return on their investment, without relying on government subsidies or utility incentives. We also offer our customers a single source solution whereby we manage and are responsible for the entire project, including installation, across the entire North American real estate portfolio. Our ability to offer such a turnkey, national solution allows us to deliver energy reductions and cost savings to our customers in timely, orderly and planned multi-facility roll-outs. 

Large and Growing Customer Base. We have developed a large and growing national customer base, and have installed our products in more than 13,550 &#32;commercial and industrial facilities across North America. We believe that the willingness of our blue-chip customers to install our products across multiple facilities represents a significant endorsement of our value proposition, which in turn helps us sell our energy management systems to new customers. We intend to leverage our expertise in managing projects across multiple facilities within our new LED product markets, which now include new customer opportunities with banks, insurance companies, hospitals, fast food chains, retail storefronts, grocery and pharmacies. 

Innovative Technology. We have developed a portfolio of 67 &#32;United States patents primarily covering various elements of our products. We believe these innovations allow our products to produce more light output per unit of input energy compared to competition. We also have 29 &#32;patents pending that primarily cover various elements of our newly developed LED products and certain business methods. To complement our innovative energy management products, we have introduced integrated energy management services to provide our customers with a turnkey solution either at a single facility or across their North American facility footprints. Our demonstrated ability to innovate provides us with significant competitive advantages. Our lighting products offer significantly more light output as measured in foot-candles of light delivered per watt of electricity consumed when compared to HID or traditional fluorescent fixtures. 

Expanded Sales Network. &#32;In addition to selling directly to electrical distribution customers, we sell our lighting products and services to national accounts. We now have relationships with more than 100 resellers and distributors that are represented by a North American network of independent lighting agencies. We intend to continue to selectively build our sales network in the future with a focus on geographic regions where we do not currently have a strong sales presence. 

Our Growth Strategies 

Emphasize LED Product and Market. We believe the market for lighting products has experienced a significant technology shift to LED lighting systems. Accordingly, our primary focus is on our lighting and retrofit solutions using LED technologies. 

Expanded Sales Network and Salesforce. In addition to selling directly to national account customers, we sell our lighting products and services to end users through electrical distributors. During fiscal 2016, we engaged more than 18 manufacturer representative agencies to expand our reach with the broadline distributors and further enhance our ability to grow revenue. We now have relationships with more than 100 resellers and distributors that are represented by a North American network of independent lighting agencies. We continue to expand our sales network and we are also maintaining our in-market sales force which generates revenue through our independent channels. 

Table of Contents 

Develop New Sources of Revenue Through Expanded Product Offerings. &#32;We have expanded our role and product offerings in the LED marketplace, and plan to increase sales of LED fixtures for commercial office and retail applications, schools and government buildings, freezer and cold storage applications, exterior area applications, as well as high bay interior applications. 

Leverage Existing Customer Base. Over the last several years, we have focused on expanding our relationships with our existing customers by transitioning from single-site facility implementations to comprehensive enterprise-wide roll-outs of our lighting products. We also intend to leverage our large installed base of HIF lighting systems to implement all aspects of our energy management system, particularly LED lighting products, wireless controls, cloud-based power data analysis and storage capabilities for our existing customers. 

Continue to Improve Operational Efficiencies. We are focused on continually improving the efficiency of our operations to increase the profitability of our business and allow us to continue to deliver our compelling value proposition. 

Create a Culture to Support Growth. We are focused on establishing a corporate culture that embraces high expectations and performance to continue to drive innovation, efficiency and deliver superior results to our customers. 

Products and Services 

Our primary focus has been, and will continue to be, emphasizing our LED lighting fixtures. Currently, substantially all of our products are manufactured at our production facility location in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, although we are increasingly sourcing products and components from third parties as the LED market continues to evolve in order to have versatility in our product development. However, we do not anticipate significant changes in product sourcing in the near term. We are focused on researching, developing and/or acquiring new LED products and technologies that are innovative in the retrofit markets, such as the LED door retrofit and exterior LED lighting products. We plan to focus our efforts on creating innovative LED retrofit products while continuing to sell legacy HIF solutions to customers in markets where LED technology adoption is in its infancy. Together with these products, we offer our customers a variety of integrated energy management services, such as system design, project management and installation. 

Products 

The following is a description of our primary products: 

The LED Troffer Door Retrofit (LDR TM ): The LDR TM &#32;is designed to replace existing 4 foot by 2 foot and 2 foot by 2 foot fluorescent troffers that are frequently found in office or retail grid ceilings. Our LDR TM &#32;product is unique in that the LED optics and electronics are housed within the door frame which allows for installation of the product in approximately one to two minutes. The product provides reduced maintenance expenses based upon improved LED chips. 

Interior LED High Bay Fixtures: Our LED interior high bay lighting products consist of our Harris high bay, Apollo TM &#32;high bay and ISON&#174; high bay products. Our ISON&#174; class of LED interior fixture offers a full package of premium features, including low total cost of ownership, optics that currently exceed competitors in terms of lumen package, delivered light, modularity and advanced thermal management. Our Apollo TM &#32;class of LED interior fixtures is designed for new construction and retrofit projects where initial cost is the largest factor in the purchase decision. In addition, our LED interior lighting products are lightweight and, we believe, easy to handle, which further reduces installation and maintenance costs and helps to build brand loyalty with electrical contractors and installers. 

Exterior LED Fixtures: &#32;In October 2014, we launched a suite of new exterior LED lighting products including our Orion ISON&#174; Class LED Exterior Area Fixture and our Apollo TM LED Exterior Area Light and Apollo TM LED Wall Pack. Our patent pending ISON&#174; class LED exterior area fixture offers a full package of premium features, including low total cost of ownership, optics that exceed competitors in terms of lumen package, delivered light, modularity, advanced thermal management, and numerous accessory options (such as ambient sensors and fixture color). Our ISON&#174; class LED Wall Pack is a wall mounted fixture to complement our ISON&#174; class LED Area Light. Our Apollo TM LED Exterior Area Light and Apollo TM LED Wall Pack are designed to meet the market demand for long life exterior applications. Our exterior Apollo TM line products are ideal for new construction and retrofit projects where initial cost is the largest factor in the purchase decision. 

Smart Lighting Controls. We offer a broad array of smart building control systems that have either been developed by us under the InteLite brand, or procured from third parties. These control systems provide both lighting control options (such as occupancy, daylight, or schedule control) and data intelligence capabilities for building managers to log, monitor, and analyze use of space, energy savings, and provide physical security of the space. 

Other Products. We also offer our customers a variety of other LED, HIF, and induction fixtures to address their lighting and energy management needs, including fixtures designed for agribusinesses, parking lots, roadways, retail, mezzanine, outdoor applications and private label resale. 

Our warranty policy generally provides for a limited one-year warranty on our HIF products and a limited five-year warranty on our LED products, although we do offer warranties ranging up to 10 years for certain LED products. Ballasts, lamps, drivers, LED chips and other electrical components are excluded from our standard warranty as they are covered by separate warranties 

Table of Contents 

offered by the original equipment manufacturers. We coordinate and process customer warranty inquiries and claims, including inquiries and claims relating to ballast and lamp components, through our customer service department. 

Services 

We provide a range of fee-based lighting-related energy management services to our customers, including: 

&#8226; 

comprehensive site assessment, which includes a review of the current lighting requirements and energy usage at the customer&#8217;s facility; 

&#8226; 

site field verification, or SFV, during which we perform a test implementation of our energy management system at a customer&#8217;s facility; 

&#8226; 

utility incentive and government subsidy management, where we assist our customers in identifying, applying for and obtaining available utility incentives or government subsidies; 

&#8226; 

engineering design, which involves designing a customized system to suit our customers' facility lighting and energy management needs, and providing the customer with a written analysis of the potential energy savings and lighting and environmental benefits associated with the designed system; 

&#8226; 

project management, which involves us working with the electrical contractor in overseeing and managing all phases of implementation from delivery through installation for a single facility or through multi-facility roll-outs tied to a defined project schedule; 

&#8226; 

installation services, for our products, which we provide through our national network of qualified third-party installers; and 

&#8226; 

recycling in connection with our retrofit installations, where we remove, dispose of and recycle our customer&#8217;s legacy lighting fixtures. 

We also provide other services which comprise a small amount of our revenue. These services primarily include management and control of power quality and remote monitoring and control of our installed systems. We also sell and distribute replacement lamps and fixture components into the after-market. 

Our Customers 

We primarily target commercial, institutional and industrial customers who have warehousing, manufacturing, and office facilities. As of March 31, 2016 , we have installed our products in 13,550 &#32;commercial and industrial facilities across North America. In fiscal 2016, there was no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. In fiscal 2015 we had one customer, Ford Motor Company, that accounted for 12% of our total revenue. In fiscal 2014, we had one customer, Standard Alternative LLC, &#32;that accounted for 23% of our total revenue. 

Sales and Marketing 

We sell our products in one of two ways: (i) directly to commercial and industrial customers using a systematic multi-step process that focuses on our value proposition and provides our sales force with a specific protocol for working with our customers from the point of lead generation through delivery of our products and services; and (ii) indirectly through independent sales agencies and electrical distributors. We believe that partnering with an agency sales force focused on providing technical product and sales support to our customers provides us with a greater potential for revenue growth. Our Distribution Services division focuses on developing and expanding customer relationships with broadline distributors. During fiscal 2016, we engaged more than 18 manufacturer representative agencies to expand our reach with broadline distributors and further enhance our ability to grow revenue. We attempt to leverage the customer relationships of these customers to further extend the geographic scope of our selling efforts. We work cooperatively with our indirect channels through participation in national trade organizations and by providing training on our sales methodologies. We intend to continue to selectively expand our independent sales network, focusing on those geographic regions where we lack sufficient sales coverage. 

We have historically focused our marketing efforts on traditional direct advertising, as well as developing brand awareness through customer education and active participation in trade shows and energy management seminars. These efforts have included participating in national, regional and local trade organizations, exhibiting at trade shows, executing targeted direct mail campaigns, advertising in select publications, public relations campaigns, social media and other lead generation and brand-building initiatives. 

Competition 

The market for energy-efficient lighting products and services is fragmented. We face strong competition primarily from manufacturers and distributors of lighting products and services as well as electrical contractors. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, quality, customer experience, energy efficiency, customer service and marketing support. 

Table of Contents 

There are a number of lighting fixture manufacturers that sell LED and HIF products that compete with our lighting product lines. Lighting companies such as Acuity Brands, Inc., Carmanah Technology Corporation, Energy Focus, Inc., Eaton Corporation plc, Cree, Inc., LSI Industries, Inc., Revolution Lighting Technologies Inc., TCP International Holdings, Inc., and Hubbell Incorporated are some of our main competitors within the commercial and industrial markets. 

We also face competition from companies who provide energy management services. Some of these competitors, such as Ameresco, Inc., Johnson Controls, Inc. and Honeywell International, provide basic systems and controls designed to further energy efficiency. 

Intellectual Property 

As of March 31, 2016 , we had been issued 67 &#32;United States patents and have applied for 29 &#32;additional United States patents. The patented and patent pending technologies cover various innovative elements of our products, including our HIF and LED fixtures. Our patented LDR TM &#32;product allows for a significantly quicker installation when compared to competitor's commercial office lighting products. Our smart lighting controls allow our lighting fixtures to selectively provide a targeted amount of light where and when it is needed most. 

We believe that our patent portfolio as a whole is material to our business. We also believe that our patents covering our ability to manage the thermal and optical performance of our LED and HIF lighting products are material to our business, and that the loss of these patents could significantly and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. 

Backlog 

Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize in the future as a result of firm, committed orders. Backlog as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 totaled $5,600,000 and $7,100,000, respectively. We generally expect our backlog to become revenue within one year. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We own an approximately 266,000 square foot manufacturing and distribution facility located in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, where substantially all of our products are manufactured. As part of our business initiatives to adapt to the rapidly evolving LED market and to continue to enhance our competitiveness, we are considering implementing significant changes to our manufacturing production and assembly facility and processes. 

On March 31, 2016, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement ("Agreement") with Tramontina U.S. Cookware, Inc. ("Tramontina") to sell and leaseback our manufacturing and distribution facility for a cash purchase price of approximately $2,600,000. Pursuant to the Agreement, we are negotiating a lease with Tramontina in which we will lease approximately 200,000 square feet of the building for not less than three years, with rent at $2.00 per square foot per annum. The lease will contain options by both parties to reduce the amount of leased space after March 1, 2017. The transaction is expected to close on or before June 30, 2016, subject to various closing conditions. We recorded an impairment charge of $1,614,000 in fiscal 2016 based on the related assets' carrying values exceeding the expected proceeds from this sale transaction. 

We generally maintain a significant supply of raw material and purchased and manufactured component inventory. We contract with transportation companies to ship our products and manage all aspects of distribution logistics. We generally ship our products directly to the end user. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts are centered on developing new LED products and technologies and enhancing existing products. The products, technologies and services we are developing are focused on increasing end user energy efficiency and enhancing lighting output. During fiscal 2014, we developed and commercialized the LDR TM &#32;product obtained through our acquisition of Harris Manufacturing. During fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016, we focused our development on additional LED products, resulting in our development and commercialization of several suites of LED interior high bay products and LED exterior products. 

Our research and development expenditures were $1,668,000 , $2,554,000 &#32;and $2,026,000 &#32;for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

During fiscal 2016, we opened an innovation hub in Chicago, Illinois to support the development and design of new LED products. We believe that this location is in close proximity to highly regarded engineering and business schools and will offer us a greater supply of technical talent to help us develop new LED products in the future. We also operate research and development lab and test facilities in our Jacksonville, FL and Manitowoc, WI locations. 

Regulation 

Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of, and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and 

Table of Contents 

safety. We believe that our business, operations, and facilities are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. 

State, county or municipal statutes often require that a licensed electrician be present and supervise each retrofit project. Further, all installations of electrical fixtures are subject to compliance with electrical codes in virtually all jurisdictions in the United States. In cases where we engage independent contractors to perform our retrofit projects, we believe that compliance with these laws and regulations is the responsibility of the applicable contractor. 

Our Corporate and Other Available Information 

We were incorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in April 1996 and our corporate headquarters are located at 2210 Woodland Drive, Manitowoc, Wisconsin 54220. Our Internet website address is www.orionlighting.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available through the investor relations page of our internet website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 , we had 165 full-time and 98 &#32;temporary employees, of which 87 work in manufacturing. Our employees are not represented by any labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

