 Item 1 - BUSINESS 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts -- but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events -- constitute forward-looking statements. The words &#8220; believes, &#8221; &#8220; expects, &#8221; &#8220; intends, &#8221; &#8220; plans, &#8221; &#8220; anticipates, &#8221; &#8220; intend, &#8221; &#8220; estimate, &#8221; &#8220; potential, &#8221; &#8220; continue, &#8221; &#8220; hopes, &#8221; &#8220; likely, &#8221; &#8220; will, &#8221; and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms, identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements of Omega Flex, Inc., or industry results, to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management &#8217; s view only as of the date of this annual report statement. We undertake no obligation to update the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, conditions or circumstances. 

GENERAL 

DESCRIPTION OF OUR BUSINESS 

Overview of the Company 

Omega Flex, Inc. (Omega Flex) is a leading manufacturer of flexible metal hose, and is currently engaged in a number of different markets, including construction, manufacturing, transportation, petrochemical, pharmaceutical and other industries.

The Company &#8217; s business is managed as a single operating segment that consists of the manufacture and sale of flexible metal hose and accessories. The Company &#8217; s products are concentrated in residential and commercial construction, and general industrial markets, with a comprehensive portfolio of intellectual property and patents issued in various countries around the world. The Company &#8217; s primary product, flexible gas piping, is used for gas piping within residential and commercial buildings. Through its flexibility and ease of use, the Company &#8217; s TracPipe &#174; and TracPipe &#174; CounterStrike &#174; flexible gas piping, along with its fittings distributed under the trademarks AutoSnap &#174; and AutoFlare &#174; , allows users to substantially cut the time required to install gas piping, as compared to traditional methods. The Company &#8217; s products are manufactured at its Exton, Pennsylvania facilities in the United States, and in Banbury, Oxfordshire in the United Kingdom. A majority of the Company &#8217; s sales across all industries are generated through independent outside sales organizations such as sales representatives, wholesalers and distributors, or a combination of both. The Company has a broad distribution network in North America and to a lesser extent in other global markets.

Industry Overview 

The flexible metal hose industry is highly fragmented and diverse, with over 10 companies producing flexible metal hose in the United States, and at least that many in Europe and Asia. Because of its simple and ubiquitous nature, flexible metal hose can be applied and has been applied to a number of different applications across a broad range of industries.

The major market categories for flexible metallic hose include (1) automotive, (2) aerospace, (3) residential and commercial construction, and (4) general industrial. Omega Flex participates in the latter two markets for flexible metallic hose. The residential and commercial construction markets utilize corrugated stainless steel tubing (CSST) primarily for flexible gas piping and gas appliance connectors, and secondarily as pump connectors and seismic loops to isolate vibration in mechanical piping systems in commercial buildings. The general industrial market includes all of the processing industries, the most important of which include primary steel, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, and specialty applications for the transfer of fluids at both extremely low and high temperatures, (such as the conveying of cryogenic liquids) and a highly fragmented OEM market, as well as the maintenance and repair market.

None of our competitors appear to be dominant in more than one market. We are a leading supplier of flexible metal hose in each of the markets in which we participate. Our assessment of our overall competitive position is based on several factors. The flexible gas piping market in the U.S. is currently concentrated in the residential housing market. Based on the reports issued by the national trade groups on housing construction, the level of acceptance of flexible gas piping in the construction market, and the average usage of flexible gas piping in a residential building, we are able to estimate with a reasonable level of accuracy the size of the total gas piping market. In addition, the Company is a member of an industry trade group comprised of the four largest manufacturers of CSST in the United States, which compiles and distributes sales volume statistics for its members relative to flexible gas piping. Based on our sales and the statistics described above, the Company can estimate its position within that market. For other applications, industry trade groups collect and report data related to these markets, and we can then compare and estimate our status within that group as a whole. In addition, the customer base for the products that we sell, and the identity of the manufacturers aligned with those customers is fairly well known, which again allows the Company to extract information and estimate its market position. Lastly, the term &#8220; leading &#8221; implies a host of factors other than sales volume and market share position. It includes the range and capability of the product line, history of product development and new product launches, all of which information is in the public domain. Based on all of this information, the Company is reasonably confident that it is indeed a leader in the major market segments in which it participates.

Development of Business 

The Company celebrated its 40 th anniversary during 2015. Incorporated in 1975 under the name of Tofle America, Inc., the Company was originally established as the subsidiary of a Japanese manufacturer of flexible metal hose. For a number of years, we were a manufacturer of flexible metal hose that was sold primarily to customers using the hose for incorporation into finished assemblies for industrial applications. We later changed our name to Omega Flex, Inc., and in 1996, we were acquired by Mestek, Inc. (Mestek).

In January 2005, Mestek announced its intention to distribute its equity ownership in our common stock to the Mestek shareholders. A registration statement for the Omega Flex common stock was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the registration statement was declared effective on July 22, 2005. We also listed our common stock on the NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Market) under the stock symbol &#8220; OFLX &#8221; , and began public trading of our common stock on August 1, 2005. All Mestek shareholders as of the record date for the distribution received one share of Omega Flex common stock for each share of Mestek common stock owned as of the record date. We are now a totally separate company from Mestek, and we do not use or share any material assets or services of Mestek in conducting our business.

Over the years, most of the Company &#8217; s business has been derived from Omega Flex, Inc., and concentrated in North America, but the Company also has two subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom, which are largely focused on European and other international markets. The Company also has a local subsidiary which owns the Company &#8217; s Exton, Pennsylvania real estate.

Overview of Current Business 

Products 

The Company &#8217; s business is managed as a single operating segment that consists of the manufacture and sale of flexible metal hose and accessories. 

The Company has had the most success within the residential construction industry with its flexible gas piping products, TracPipe &#174; , which was introduced in 1997, and its more robust counterpart TracPipe &#174; CounterStrike &#174; , which came to market in 2004. Partnered with the development of our AutoFlare &#174; patented fittings and accessories, both have enjoyed wide acceptance due to their reliability and durability. Within that industry, the flexible gas piping products that we offer and similar products offered by our competitors have sought to overcome the use of black iron pipe that has traditionally been used by the construction industry in the United States and Canada for the piping of fuel gases within a building. Prior to the introduction of the first CSST system in 1989, nearly all construction in the United States and Canada used traditional black iron pipe for gas piping. However, the advantages of CSST in areas subject to high incidence and likelihood of seismic events had been first demonstrated in Japan. In seismic testing, the CSST was shown to withstand the stresses on a piping system created by the shifting and movement of an earthquake better than rigid pipe. The advantages of CSST over the traditional black iron pipe also include lower overall installation costs because it can be installed in long uninterrupted lines within the building.

The flexibility of the tube allows it to be bent by hand without any tools when a change in direction in the line is required. In contrast, black iron pipe requires that each bend in the pipe have a separate fitting attached. This requires the installer to thread the ends of the black iron pipe, apply an adhesive to the threads, and then screw on the fitting, all of which is labor intensive and costly, including testing and rework if the work is not done properly. As a result of these advantages, the Company estimates that CSST now commands slightly over one-half of the market for fuel gas piping in new and remodeled residential construction in the United States, and the use of rigid iron pipe, and to a lesser degree copper tubing, accounts for the remainder of the market. The Company plans to continue its growth trend by demonstrating its advantages against other technologies, in both the residential and commercial markets, in both the United States and overseas in geographic areas that have access to natural gas distribution systems.

In 2004, we introduced a new brand of flexible gas piping sold under the registered trademark &#8220; CounterStrike &#174; &#8221; . CounterStrike &#174; is designed to be more resistant to damage from transient electrical arcing. This feature is particularly desirable in areas that are subject to high levels of lightning strikes, such as the Southeast and Ohio Valley sections of the United States. In a lightning strike, the electrical energy of the lightning can energize all metal systems and components in a building. This electrical energy, in attempting to reach ground, may arc between metal systems that have different electrical resistance, and arcing can cause damage to the metal systems. In standard CSST systems, an electrical bond between the CSST and the building &#8217; s grounding electrode would address this issue, but lightning is an extremely powerful and unpredictable force. CounterStrike &#174; CSST is designed to be electrically conductive and therefore disperse the energy of any electrical charge over the entire surface of the CounterStrike &#174; line. In 2007, we introduced a new version of CounterStrike &#174; CSST that was tested to be even more resistant to damage from electrical arcing than the original version, and substantially more effective than standard CSST products. As a result of its robust performance, the new version of CounterStrike &#174; has been widely accepted in the market, and thus during 2011, the Company made the decision to sell exclusively CounterStrike &#174; within the United States. This move demonstrated the Company &#8217; s commitment to innovation and safety, and further enhanced our leadership in the marketplace.

In 2008, the Company introduced its first double containment piping product &#8211; DoubleTrac &#174; . DoubleTrac &#174; double containment piping has earned stringent industry certifications for its ability to safely contain and convey automotive fuels. DoubleTrac &#174; received certification from Underwriters Laboratory, the testing and approval agency, that our product is fully compliant with UL971A, which is the product standard in the United States for metallic underground fuel piping, as well as approvals from other relevant state agencies that have more stringent testing procedures for the product. Similar to our flexible gas piping, DoubleTrac &#174; provides advantages over older rigid pipe technologies. DoubleTrac &#174; is made and can be installed in long continuous runs, eliminating the need for manually assembling rigid pipe junctions at the end of a pipe or at a turn in direction. In addition, DoubleTrac &#174; has superior performance in terms of its ability to safely convey fuel from the storage tank to the dispenser to the extent that DoubleTrac &#174; is essentially a zero permeation piping system, far exceeding the most stringent government regulations. Originally designed for applications involving automotive fueling stations running from the storage tank to the fuel dispenser, the ability of DoubleTrac &#174; to handle a variety of installation challenges has broadened its applications to include refueling at marinas, fuel lines for back-up generators, and corrosive liquids at waste treatment plants. In short, in applications where double containment piping is required to handle potentially contaminating fluids or corrosive fluids, DoubleTrac &#174; is engineered to handle those demanding applications. 

DEF-Trac &#174; , a complementary product which is very similar to DoubleTrac &#174; , was brought to the marketplace in 2011. DEF-Trac &#174; piping is specifically engineered to handle the demanding requirements for diesel emissions fluid (DEF). Recent federal regulations require all diesel engines to use DEF to reduce the particulate contaminants from the diesel combustion process. However, DEF is highly corrosive and cannot be pre-mixed with the diesel fuel. This requires that new diesel trucks and automobiles must have separate tanks built into the vehicle so that the diesel emissions fluid can be injected into the catalytic converter after the point of combustion. Similarly, a large portion of fueling stations carrying diesel fuel are now also selling DEF through a separate dispenser. In addition to being highly corrosive, DEF also has a high freezing temperature, requiring a heat trace in the piping in applications in northern areas of the United States. DEF-Trac &#174; flexible piping is uniquely suited to handle all of these challenges, as the stainless steel inner core is corrosion resistant, and DEF-Trac &#174; also comes with options for heat trace that is extruded directly into the wall of the product. In summary, DEF-Trac &#174; provides a complete solution to the demanding requirements of this unique application, as such, DEF-Trac &#174; has been met with enormous acceptance from the industry that was searching for a solution to the new environmental requirement. The unique market position of DEF-Trac &#174; has leveraged the penetration of DoubleTrac &#174; into the broader market for automotive fueling applications. 

In September 2013, the Company announced that it would be releasing a newly developed fitting, AutoSnap &#174; , as part of its flexible gas piping product line. After successfully completing all required testing by independent testing agencies, as well as extensive field trials across the United States by trained TracPipe &#174; CounterStrike &#174; installers, AutoSnap &#174; was officially introduced to the market in January 2014 to wide acceptance. With its patent-pending design, the product simplified the installation process, and addressed installer preferences for both speed and ease of installation. 

In addition to the flexible gas piping and other previously described markets, our flexible metal hose is used in a wide variety of other applications. Our involvement in these markets is important because just as the flexible gas piping applications have sprung from our expertise in manufacturing annular metal hose, other applications may also evolve from our participation in the industry. Flexible metal hose is used in a wide variety of industrial and processing applications where the unique characteristics of the flexible hose in terms of its flexibility, and its ability to absorb vibration and thermal expansion and contraction, has unique benefits over rigid piping. For example, in certain pharmaceutical processing applications, the process of developing the specific pharmaceutical may require rapid freezing of various compounds through the use of liquefied gases, such as liquefied nitrogen, helium or Freon. The use of flexible metal tubing is particularly appropriate in these types of applications. Flexible metal hose can accommodate the thermal expansion caused by the liquefied gases carried through the hose, and the total length of the hose will not significantly vary. In contrast, fixed or rigid metal pipe would expand and contract along its length as the liquid gases passed through it, causing stresses on the pipe junctions that would over time cause fatigue and failure. Alternatively, within certain industrial or commercial applications using steam, either as a heat source or in the industrial process itself, the pumps used to transfer the liquid or steam within the system are subject to varying degrees of vibration. Additionally, flexible metal hoses can also be used as connections between the pump and the intake of the fluids being transferred to eliminate the vibration effects of the pumps on the piping transfer system. All of these areas provide opportunities for the flexible metal hose arena, and thus the Company continues to participate in these markets, as it seeks new innovative solutions which will generate additional revenue streams for the future.

Manufacturing 

In each instance, whether the application is for CSST for fuel gases, flexible metal hose for handling specialty chemicals or gases, flexible double containment piping, or unique industrial applications requiring ability to withstand wide variations in temperature and vibration, all of our success rests on our metal hose. Most of our flexible metal hoses range in diameter from 1/4 &#8221; to 2 &#8221; while certain applications require diameters of up to 16 &#8221; . All of our smaller diameter pipe (2 &#8221; inner diameter and smaller) is made by a proprietary process that is known as the rotary process. The proprietary process that we use to manufacture our annular hose is the result of a long-term development effort begun in 1995. Through continuous improvement over the years, we have developed and fine-tuned the process so that we can manufacture annular flexible metal hose on a high speed, continuous process. We believe that our own rotary process for manufacturing annular corrugated metal hose is the most cost efficient method in the industry, and that our rotary process provides us with a unique advantage in many of the industries in which we participate. As a result, we are able to provide our product on a demand basis. Over the years, the Company has had great success in achieving on-time delivery performance to the scheduled ship date. The quick inventory turnover reduces our costs for in-process inventory, and further contributes to our gross margin levels. We have also improved our productivity on a historical basis.

Raw Materials 

We use various materials in the manufacture of our products, primarily stainless steel for our flexible metal hose and plastics for our jacketing material on TracPipe &#174; and CounterStrike &#174; flexible gas piping. We also purchase all of our proprietary AutoFlare &#174; and AutoSnap &#174; brass fittings for use with the TracPipe &#174; and CounterStrike &#174; flexible gas piping. Although we have multiple sources qualified for all of our major raw materials and components, we have historically used one or two sources of supply for such raw materials and components. Our current orders for stainless steel and fittings are each placed with one or two suppliers. If any one of these sources of supply were interrupted for any reason, then we would have to devote additional time and expense in obtaining the same volume of supply from our other qualified sources. This potential transition, if it were to occur, could affect our operations and financial results during the period of such transition. During 2015, despite a decrease in the price of nickel, the cost of the stainless steel metal had increased slightly compared to the prior year. Copper commodity prices were similar to the prior year. Nickel is a prime material in stainless steel, which the Company utilizes to manufacture CSST, and copper is a key component of the Company &#8217; s brass fittings. The supply of our main raw materials appears to be stable with ample volume. We believe that with our purchase commitments for stainless steel, polyethylene and for our proprietary fittings, that we have adequate sources of supply for these raw materials and components. We have not had difficulty in obtaining the raw materials, component parts or finished goods from our suppliers in prior years. We believe that an ample supply of stainless steel will continue until there is a reduction in global capacity, such as mine closures, which would then cause a constriction. Volatility in the commodities marketplace and competitive conditions in the sale of our products could potentially restrict us from passing along raw materials or component part price increases to our customers.

Business Seasonality 

The demand for our flexible piping products that are related to construction activity including TracPipe &#174; , Counterstrike &#174; , DoubleTrac &#174; and SolarTrac &#174; , may be affected by the construction industry &#8217; s demand, which generally tightens during the winter months of each year due to cold and inclement weather. Accordingly, sales are usually higher in the spring, summer and fall.

Customers 

We sell our products to customers scattered across a wide and diverse set of industries ranging from construction to pharmaceutical with approximately 7,600 customers on record. These sales channels include sales through independent sales representatives, distributors, original equipment manufacturers, direct sales, and sales through our website on the internet. We utilize various distribution companies in the sale of our TracPipe &#174; and Counterstrike &#174; flexible gas piping, and these distribution customers in the aggregate represent a significant portion of our business. In particular, the Company has one significant customer, (Customer A), whereby its various branches, represented approximately 16% of our sales in 2015 and 15% in 2014, and also accounted for approximately 25% and 21% of our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All of this business is done on a purchase order basis for immediate resale commitments or stocking, and there are no long-term purchase commitments. In the event we were to lose an account, we would not expect any long-term reduction in our sales due to the broad end-user acceptance of our products. We would anticipate that in the event of a loss of any one or more distributors, that after an initial transition period, the sale of our products would resume at or near their historical levels. Furthermore, in the case of certain national distribution chains like Customer A and other distributors, it is possible that there would continue to be purchasing activity from one or more regional or branch distribution customers. We sell our products within North America, primarily in the United States and Canada, and we also sell our products internationally, primarily in Europe through our manufacturing facility located in Banbury, England. Our sales outside of North America represent approximately 12% of our total sales during 2015 and 2014, with most of the sales occurring in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. We do not have a material portion of our long-lived assets located outside of the United States, and due to its small size, the foreign operations do not carry any significant additional risk from being located outside of the United States.

Distribution of Sales 

As mentioned previously, we sell our products primarily through independent outside sales organizations, including independent sales representatives, distributors, fabricating distributors, wholesalers, and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We have a limited internal sales function that sells our products to key accounts, including OEMs and distributors of bulk hose. We believe that within each geographic market in which the independent sales representative, distributor or wholesaler is located that our outside sales organizations are the first or second most successful outside sales organization for the particular product line within that geographic area.

Competition 

There are approximately ten manufacturers of flexible metal hose in the United States, and approximately that number in Europe and Asia. The U. S. manufacturers include Titeflex Corporation, Ward Manufacturing, Microflex, U. S. Hose, Hose Master, and several smaller privately held companies. No one manufacturer, as a general rule, participates in more than two of the major market categories, automotive, aerospace, residential and commercial construction, and general industrial, with most concentrating in just one. We estimate that we are at or near the top position of the two major categories in which we participate in regards to market share. In the flexible gas piping market, the U.S. market is currently concentrated in the residential housing market. Based on the reports issued by the national trade groups on housing construction, the level of acceptance of flexible gas piping in the construction market, and the average usage of flexible gas piping in a residential building, as well as through our sales position within that market, we are able to estimate with a high level of accuracy the size of the total gas piping market. In addition, the Company is a member of an industry trade group, which compiles and distributes sales statistics for its members relative to flexible gas piping. For other applications, industry trade groups collect and report on the size of the relevant market, and we can estimate our percentage of the relevant market based on our sales as compared to the market as a whole. The larger of our two markets, the construction industry, has seen an increase in the number of residential housing starts in 2015, as compared to the previous year. As discussed elsewhere, black iron pipe or copper tubing was historically used by all builders of commercial and residential buildings until the advent of flexible gas piping and changes in the relevant building codes. Since that time, flexible gas piping has taken an increasing share of the total amount of fuel gas piping used in construction.

Due to the number of applications in which flexible metal hose may be used, and the number of companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of flexible metal hose, the general industrial market is very fragmented, and we estimate that no one company has a predominant market share of the business over other competitors. In the market for double containment piping, we compete primarily against rigid pipe systems that are more costly to install than DoubleTrac &#174; double containment piping. The general industrial markets within Europe are very mature and tend to offer opportunities, which are interesting to us in niche markets or during periods in which a weak dollar increases the demand for our products on a competitive basis. Such has been the case for several years and has created new relationships for us. Currently, we are not heavily engaged in the manufacture of flexible metal hose for the aerospace or automotive markets, but we continue to review opportunities in all markets for our products to determine appropriate applications that will provide growth potential and high margins. In some cases, where the product offering is considered a commodity, price is the overriding competing factor. In other cases, a proprietary product offering or superior performance will be the major factors with pricing being secondary and in some cases, a non-factor. The majority of our sales are to distributors and wholesalers, and our relationships with these customers are on an arms-length basis in that neither we, nor the customers are so dependent on the other to yield any significant business advantage. From our perspective, we are able to maintain a steady demand for our products due to the broad acceptance of our products by end users, regardless of which distributor or wholesaler sells the product.

Backlog 

Management does not believe that backlog figures are material to an understanding of our business because most products are shipped promptly after the receipt of orders.

Intellectual Property 

We have a comprehensive portfolio of intellectual property, including approximately 230 patents issued in various countries around the world. The patents cover (a) the fittings used by the flexible gas piping to join the piping to a junction or assembly, (b) pre-sleeved CSST for use in underground applications, (c) an electrically conductive jacket for flexible gas piping that we sell under the trademark CounterStrike &#174; , and (d) a tubing containment system for our DoubleTrac &#174; double containment piping. In combination, our AutoFlare &#174; and AutoSnap &#174; fittings are the leading products used with flexible gas piping because they offer a metal-to-metal seal between the fitting and the tubing, and because of their robustness and ease of use. The metal-to-metal contact provides for a longer lasting and more reliable seal than fittings which use gaskets or sealing compounds that can deteriorate over time. In applications involving fuel gases in a building, the ability to maintain the seal and prevent the leaking of such gases over long periods of time is valued by our customers. In addition, the AutoSnap &#174; fitting provides the installer with greater ease of use by preassembling all the securing elements inside the body of the fitting. We also have received a patent for the composition of the polyethylene jacket used in our CounterStrike &#174; flexible gas piping product, which has increased ability to dissipate electrical energy in the event of a nearby lightning strike. The tubing containment system of our DoubleTrac &#174; double containment piping, which is also patented in the U.S. and in other countries, allows for the monitoring and collection of any liquids that may leak from the stainless steel containment layer. The expiration dates for the several patents covering our AutoFlare &#174; fittings will expire between 2016 and 2020 and the Counterstrike &#174; patent will expire in 2025. We currently have several patent applications pending in the United States and internationally covering improvements to our AutoFlare &#174; fittings and our CounterStrike &#174; polyethylene jacket, and also have a patent pending on our new AutoSnap &#174; fitting. Finally, and as mentioned above, our unique rotary process for manufacturing flexible metal hose has been developed over the last ten years, and constitutes a valuable trade secret. In 2007, a Pennsylvania court issued a ruling that confirms our proprietary rotary manufacturing process does constitute a &#8220; trade secret &#8221; under Pennsylvania law, and is entitled to protection against unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation.

Research and Development Expense 

Research and development expenses are charged to operations as incurred. Such charges aggregated $876,000, and $904,000, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and are included in engineering expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 132 employees. Most of our employees are located in our manufacturing facilities in Exton, Pennsylvania, which contain our factory personnel, engineering, finance, human resources and most of our sales staff. Our factory workforce in Exton, Pennsylvania, is not represented by a collective bargaining agent. We also maintain an office in Middletown, Connecticut where management and certain other sales personnel reside. A number of individual sales personnel are also scattered across the United States. We also maintain a manufacturing facility in Banbury, England, which contains employees of similar functions to those in the U.S., but on a much smaller scale. The sales personnel in England handle all sales and service for our products in Europe, most notably the United Kingdom, and the majority of our transactions with other international territories.

Environmental 

Our manufacturing processes do not require the use of significant quantities of hazardous substances or materials, and therefore we are able to operate our Exton facility as a &#8220; small quantity generator &#8221; under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. &#167;&#167; 321 et seq. As a result, compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws do not pose a material burden on our business, and we are not required to expend any material amounts on capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for our manufacturing facility.

Internet Website 

You may learn more about our company by visiting our website at www.omegaflexcorp.com. Among other things, you can access our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings include proxy statements, annual reports (Form 10-K), quarterly reports (Form 10-Q), and current reports (Form 8-K), as well as Section 16 reports filed by our officers and directors (Forms 3, 4 and 5). All of these reports will be available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file the reports with the SEC. You may also view on our website the following important corporate governance documents:

&#183;

Code of Business Ethics

&#183;

Corporate Governance Guidelines

&#183;

Charters for each of the Board committees

&#183;

Policy on receiving complaints regarding account or internal control issues

