 ITEM 1. &#x2003; BUSINES S 

General Development of Business 

Owens &#8209;Illinois, Inc. (the &#x201C;Company&#x201D;), through its subsidiaries, is the successor to a business established in 1903. The Company is the largest manufacturer of glas s containers in the world with 80 glass manufacturing plants in 2 3 countries. It competes in the glass container segment of the rigid packaging market and is the leading glass container manufacturer in most of the countries where it has manufacturing facilities. 

Company Strategy 

The Company&#x2019;s strategy is to be the premier rigid packaging producer most admired for its people, performance, customer satisfaction, innovation and shareholder value creation. To accomplish this strategy, the Company is focused on the following objectives: 

&#xB7; 

Establish stability and drive improved performance by acting in line with market dynamics and market trends while unlocking the value in the Company&#x2019;s operations and commercial activities; 

&#xB7; 

Develop integrated solutions that deliver higher performance and grow our business by leveraging the capabilities of the manufacturing, commercial, and supply chain disciplines to reduce costs and inventory while providing solutions that help the Company&#x2019;s customers build, develop and expand their markets; 

&#xB7; 

Create breakthroughs that include truly innovative products for our customers, as well as step change improvements to our cost structure through focused research and development; 

&#xB7; 

Integrate the Vitro acquisition to capture the value generated in this business while preserving the high operating standards; and 

&#xB7; 

Operate as one enterprise, aligning our organization, processes and talent by creating the right structure, processes and capabilities to drive for performance and meet investor expectations. 

Reportable Segments 

The Company has four reportable segments based on its geographic locations: Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific . In connection with the Company&#x2019;s acquisition (the &#x201C;Vitro Acquisition&#x201D;) of the food and beverage glass container business of Vitro S.A.B. de C.V. and its subsidiaries as conducted in the United States, Mexico and Bolivia (the &#x201C;Vitro Business&#x201D;) on September 1, 2015, the Company has renamed the former South America segment to the Latin America segment. Information as to sales, earnings from continuing operations before interest income, interest expense, and provision for income taxes and excluding amounts related to certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations (&#x201C;segment operating profit&#x201D;), and total assets by reportable segment is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Products and Services 

The Company produces glass containers for alcoholic beverages, including beer, flavored malt beverages, spirits and wine. The Company also produces glass packaging for a variety of food items, soft drinks, teas, juices and pharmaceuticals. The Company manufactures glass containers in a wide range of sizes, shapes and colors and is active in new product development and glass container innovation. 

Customers 

In most of the countries where the Company competes, it has the leading position in the glass container segment of the rigid packaging market based on sales revenue. The Company&#x2019;s largest customers consist mainly 

of the leading global food and beverage manufacturers, including (in alphabetical order) Anheuser &#8209;Busch InBev, Brown Forman, Carlsberg, Diageo, Heineken, Kirin, MillerCoors, Nestle, PepsiCo, Pernod Ricard, SABMiller, and Saxco International. No customer represents more than 10% of the Company&#x2019;s consolidated net sales. 

The Company sells most of its glass container products directly to customers under annual or multi &#8209;year supply agreements. Multi &#8209;year contracts typically provide for price adjustments based on cost changes. The Company also sells some of its products through distributors. Many customers provide the Company with regular estimates of their product needs, which enables the Company to schedule glass container production to maintain reasonable levels of inventory. Glass container manufacturing facilities are generally located in close proximity to customers. 

Markets and Competitive Conditions 

The Company&#x2019;s principal markets for glass container products are in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific. 

Europe. &#x2003; The Company has a leading share of the glass container segment of the rigid packaging market in the European countries in which it operates, with 35 glass container manufacturing plants located in the Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain and the United Kingdom. These plants primarily produce glass containers for the beer, wine, champagne, spirits and food markets in these countries. The Company also has interests in two joint ventures that manufacture glass containers in Italy. Throughout Europe, the Company competes directly with a variety of glass container manufacturers including Verallia, Ardagh Group, Vetropack and Vidrala. 

North America. &#x2003; The Company has 19 glass container manufacturing plants and one distribution facility in the U.S. and Canada, and also has an interest in a joint venture that manufactures glass containers in the U.S. The Company has the leading share of the glass container segment of the U.S. rigid packaging market, based on sales revenue by domestic producers. The principal glass container competitors in the U.S. are the Ardagh Group and Anchor Glass Container. Imports from China, Mexico, Taiwan and other countries also compete in U.S. glass container segments. Additionally, there are several major consumer packaged goods companies that self &#8209;manufacture glass containers. 

Latin America. &#x2003; The Company has 18 glass manufacturing plants in Latin America, located in Argentina , Bolivia, Braz il, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru. In 2015, the Company&#x2019;s acquisition of the Vitro Business included six additional plants. In Latin America, the Company maintains a diversified portfolio serving several markets, including beer, non &#8209;alcoholic beverages, spirits, flavored malt beverages, wine, food and pharmaceuticals. The region also has a large infrastructure for returnable/refillable glass containers. The Company competes directly with Verallia in Brazil and Argentina, and does not believe that it competes with any other large, multinational glass container manufacturers in the rest of the region. 

Asia Pacific. &#x2003; The Company has 8 glass container manufacturing plants in the Asia Pacific region, located in Australia, China, Indonesia and New Zealand. It also has interests in joint venture operations in China, Malaysia and Vietnam. In Asia Pacific, the Company primarily produces glass containers for the beer, wine, food and non &#8209;alcoholic beverage markets. The Company compet es directly with Orora Limited in Australia, and does not believe that it competes with any other large, multinational glass container manufacturers in the rest of the region. In China, the glass container segments of the packaging market are regional and highly fragmented with a large number of local competitors. 

In addition to competing with other large and well &#8209;established manufacturers in the glass container segment, the Company competes in all regions with manufacturers of other forms of rigid packaging, principally aluminum cans and plastic containers. Competition is based on quality, price, service, innovation and the marketing attributes of the container. The principal competitors producing metal containers include Ball Corporation, Crown Holdings, Inc., Rexam plc, and Silgan Holdings Inc. The principal competitors producing plastic containers include Amcor, Consolidated Container Holdings, LLC, Reynolds Group Holdings Limited, Plastipak Packaging, Inc. and Silgan Holdings Inc. The Company also competes with manufacturers of non &#8209;rigid packaging alternatives, including flexible pouches, aseptic cartons and bag &#8209;in &#8209;box containers. 

The Company seeks to provide products and services to customers ranging from large multinationals to small local breweries and wineries in a way that creates a competitive advantage for the Company. The Company believes that it is often the glass container partner of choice because of its innovation and branding capabilities, its global footprint and its expertise in manufacturing know &#8209;how and process technology. 

Seasonality 

Sales of many glass container products such as beer, beverages and food are seasonal. Shipments in the U.S. and Europe are typically greater in the second and third quarters of the year, while shipments in the Asia Pacific region are typically greater in the first and fourth quarters of the year, and shipments in Latin America are typically greater in the third and fourth quarters of the year. 

Manufacturing 

The Company has 80 glass manufacturing plants. It constantly seeks to improve the productivity of these operations through the systematic upgrading of production capabilities, sharing of best practices among plants and effective training of employees. 

The Company also provides engineering support for its glass manufacturing operations through facilities located in the U.S., Australia, France, Poland, Colombia and Peru. 

Suppliers and Raw Materials 

The primary raw materials used in the Company&#x2019;s glass container operations are sand, soda ash, limestone and recycled glass. Each of these materials, as well as the other raw materials used to manufacture glass containers, has historically been available in adequate supply from multiple sources. One of the sources is a soda ash mining operation in Wyoming in which the Company has a 25% interest. 

Energy 

The Company&#x2019;s glass container operations require a continuous supply of significant amounts of energy, principally natural gas, fuel oil and electrical power. Adequate supplies of energy are generally available at all of the Company&#x2019;s manufacturing locations. Energy costs typically account for 10-2 5 % of the Company&#x2019;s total manufacturing costs, depending on the cost of energy, the type of energy available, the factory location and the particular energy requirements. The percentage of total cost related to energy can vary significantly because of volatility in market prices, particularly for natural gas and fuel oil in volatile markets such as North America and Europe. 

In North America, approximately 97% of the sales volume is represented by customer contracts that contain provisions that pass the commodity price of natural gas to the customer, effectively reducing the North America segment&#x2019;s exposure to changing natural gas market prices. Also, in order to limit the effects of fluctuations in market prices for natural gas, the Company uses commodity forward contracts related to its forecasted requirements in North America. The objective of these forward contracts is to reduce potential volatility in cash flows and expense due to changing market prices. The Company continually evaluates the energy markets with respect to its forecasted energy requirements to optimize its use of commodity forward contracts. 

In Europe and Asia Pacific, the Company enters into fixed price contracts for a significant amount of its energy requirements. These contracts typically have terms of one to three years . In Latin America, the Company primarily enters into fixed price contracts for its energy requirements in most of the countries in which it operates and the remaining energy requirements are subject to changing natural gas market prices . These fixed price contracts typically have terms of one to three years, and generally include annual price adjustments for inflation and for certain contracts price adjustments for foreign currency variation. 

Technical Assistance License Agreements 

The Company has agreements to license its proprietary glass container technology and to provide technical assistance to a limited number of companies around the world. These agreements cover areas related to 

manufacturing and engineering assistance. The worldwide licensee network provides a stream of revenue to help support the Company&#x2019;s development act ivities. In the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company earned $12 m illion, $13 million and $16 million, respectively, in royalties and net technical assistance revenue. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

Research, development and engineering constitute important parts of the Company&#x2019;s technical activities. Expenditures for these activities were $64 million , $63 million and $62 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The Company primarily focuses on advancements in the areas of product innovation, manufacturing process control, melting technology, automatic inspection, light &#8209;weighting and further automation of manufacturing activities. The Company&#x2019;s research and development activities are conducted at its corporate facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio. During 2013, the Company completed the construction of a new research and development facility at this location. This new facility has enabled the Company to expand its research and development capabilities. 

The Company holds a large number of patents related to a wide variety of products and processes and has a substantial number of patent applications pending. While the aggregate of the Company&#x2019;s patents are of material importance to its businesses, the Company does not consider that any patent or group of patents relating to a particular product or process is of material importance when judged from the standpoint of any individual segment or its businesses as a whole. 

Sustainability and the Environment 

The Company is committed to reducing the impact its products and operations have on the environment. As part of this commitment, the Company has set targets for increasing the use of recycled glass in its manufacturing process, while reducing energy consumption and carbon dioxide equivalent (&#x201C;CO 2 &#x201D;) emissions. Specific actions taken by the Company include working with governments and other organizations to establish and financially support recycling initiatives, partnering with other entities throughout the supply chain to improve the effectiveness of recycling efforts, reducing the weight of glass packaging and investing in research and development to reduce energy consumption in its manufacturing process. The Company invests in technology and training to improve safety, reduce energy use, decrease emissions and increase the amount of cullet, or recycled glass, used in the production process. 

The Company&#x2019;s worldwide operations, in addition to other companies within the industry, are subject to extensive laws, ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to environmental protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean &#8209;up of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste management and workplace health and safety. The Company strives to abide by and uphold such laws and regulations. 

Glass Recycling and Bottle Deposits 

The Company is an important contributor to recycling efforts worldwide and is among the largest users of recycled glass containers. If sufficient high &#8209;quality recycled glass were available on a consistent basis, the Company has the technology to make glass containers containing a high proportion of recycled glass. Using recycled glass in the manufacturing process reduces energy costs and impacts the operating life and efficiency of the glass melting furnaces. 

In the U.S., Canada, Europe and elsewhere, government authorities have adopted or are considering legal requirements that would mandate certain recycling rates, the use of recycled materials, or limitations on or preferences for certain types of packaging. The Company believes that governments worldwide will continue to develop and enact legal requirements around guiding customer and end &#8209;consumer packaging choices. 

Sales of beverage containers are affected by governmental regulation of packaging, including deposit laws and extended producer responsibility regulations. As of December 31, 2015 , there were a number of U.S. states, Canadian provinces and territories, European countries and Australian states with some form of incentive for consumer returns of glass bottles in their law. The structure and enforcement of such laws and regulations can 

impact the sales of beverage containers in a given jurisdiction. Such laws and regulations also impact the availability of post &#8209;consumer recycled glass for the Company to use in container production. 

A number of states and provinces have recently considered or are now considering laws and regulations to encourage curbside, deposit and on &#8209;premise glass recycling. Although there is no clear trend in the direction of these state and provincial laws and proposals, the Company believes that states and provinces, as well as municipalities within those jurisdictions, will continue to adopt recycling laws, which will impact supplies of recycled glass. As a large user of recycled glass for making new glass containers, the Company has an interest in laws and regulations impacting supplies of such material in its markets. 

Air Emissions 

In Europe, the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (&#x201C;EUETS&#x201D;) is in effect to facilitate emissions reduction. The Company&#x2019;s manufacturing facilities which operate in EU countries must restrict the volume of their CO 2 emissions to the level of their individually allocated emissions allowances as set by country regulators. If the actual level of emissions for any facility exceeds its allocated allowance, additional allowances can be bought to cover deficits; conversely, if the actual level of emissions for any facility is less than its allocation, the excess allowances can be sold. The EUETS has not had a material effect on the Company&#x2019;s results to date. However, should the regulators significantly restrict the number of emissions allowances available, it could have a material effect in the future. 

In North America, the U.S. and Canada are engaged in significant legislative and regulatory activity relating to CO 2 emissions, at the federal, state and provincial levels of government. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#x201C;EPA&#x201D;) regulates emissions of hazardous air pollutants under the Clean Air Act, which grants the EPA authority to establish limits for certain air pollutants and to require compliance, levy penalties and bring civil judicial action against violators. The structure and scope of the EPA&#x2019;s CO 2 regulations are currently the subject of litigation and are expected to be the subject of federal legislative activity. The EPA regulations, if preserved as proposed, could have a significant long &#8209;term impact on the Company&#x2019;s U.S. operations. The EPA also implemented the Cross &#8209;State Air Pollution Rule, which set stringent emissions limits in many states starting in 2012. The state of California in the U.S . and the province of Quebec in Canada adopted cap &#8209;and &#8209;trade legislation aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions starting in 2013. 

In Asia Pacific, the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 commenced on July 1, 2008 in Australia. This act established a mandatory reporting system for corporate greenhouse gas emissions and energy production and consumption. In 2011, the Australian government adopted a carbon pricing mechanism that took effect in 2012, which required certain manufacturers to pay a tax based on their carbon &#8209;equivalent emissions. In July 2014 the carbon pricing mechanism was repealed by the Australian government and replaced by the Emissions Reduction Fund (&#x201C;ERF&#x201D;) which comprises an element to credit emissions reductions, a fund to purchase emissions reductions and a safeguard mechanism. The ERF purchases the lowest cost abatement (in the form of Australian carbon credit units) from a wide range of sources, providing an incentive to businesses, households and landowners to proactively reduce their emissions, while the safeguard mechanism (which is effective from July 1, 2016) ensures that emissions reductions paid for through the crediting and purchasing elements of the ERF are not displaced by significant increases in emissions above business-as-usual levels elsewhere in the economy. An emissions trading scheme has also been in effect in New Zealand since 2008. 

In Latin America, the Brazilian government passed a law in 2009 requiring companies to reduce the level of greenhous e gas emissions by the year 2025 . In the other Latin American countries, national and local governments are considering proposals that would impose regulations to reduce CO 2 emissions. 

The Company is unable to predict what environmental legal requirements may be adopted in the future. However, the Company continually monitors its operations in relation to environmental impacts and invests in environmentally friendly and emissions &#8209;reducing projects. As such, the Company has made significant expenditures for environmental improvements at certain of its facilities over the last several years; however, these expenditures did not have a material adverse effect on the Company&#x2019;s results of operations or cash flows. The Company is unable to predict the impact of future environmental legal requirements on its results of operations or cash flows. 

Employees 

The Company&#x2019;s worldwide operations employed approximately 27,000 persons as of December 31, 2015 . Approxi mately 75% of North American employees are hourly workers covered by collective bargaining agreements. The principal collective bargaining agreement, which at December 31, 2015, covered approximately 76% of the Company&#x2019;s union &#8209;affiliated employees in North America, will expire on March 31, 2016. Approximately 85% of employees in Latin America are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of the hourly workers in Australia and New Zealand are also covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements in Latin America, Australia and New Zealand have varying terms and expiration dates. In Europe, a large number of the Company&#x2019;s employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require the Company to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. The Company considers its employee relations to be good and does not anticipate any material work stoppages in the near term. 

Available Information 

The Company&#x2019;s website is www.o &#8209;i.com. The Company&#x2019;s annual report on Form 10 &#8209;K, quarterly reports on Form 10 &#8209;Q, current reports on Form 8 &#8209;K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 can be obtained from this site at no cost. The Company&#x2019;s SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC&#x2019;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 &#8209;800 &#8209;SEC &#8209;0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

The Company&#x2019;s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating/Corporate Governance and Risk Oversight Committees are also available on the Investor Relations section of the Company&#x2019;s website. Copies of these documents are available in print to share owners upon request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary at the address above. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

In the following table we set forth certain information regarding those persons currently se rving as executive officers of Owens-Illinois, Inc. as of February 1 6 , 201 6 . 

Name and Age 

Position 

Andres A. Lopez (53 ) 

Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2016; President, Glass Contain ers and Chief Operating Officer 2015; Vice President and President of O &#8209;I Americas 2014 &#8209;2015; Vice President and President of O &#8209;I South Americ a 2009 &#8209;2014; Vice President of Global Manufacturing and E ngineering 2006 &#8209;2009. 

Albert P. L. Stroucken (68) 

Executive Chairman of the Board since January 1, 2016; Chairman an d Chief Executive Officer 2006 - 2015 . Previously Chief Executive Officer of HB Fuller Company, a manufacturer of adhesives, sealants, coatings, paints and other specialty chemical products 1998 &#x2013; 2006; Chairman of HB Fuller Company 1999 &#x2013; 2006. 

Miguel Alvarez (51) 

President, O-I Latin America since 2014; President, O-I Brazil 2010 &#x2013; 2014. Previously held leadership positions in Chile, Argentina and Ecuador for Belcorp, a leading global beauty products company 2005 &#x2013; 2010. 

James W. Baehren (65 ) 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2003; Senior Vice President Strategic Planning 2006 &#8209;2012; Chief Administrative Officer 2004 &#8209;2006; Corporate Secretary 1998 &#8209;2010; Vice President and Director of Finance 2001 &#8209;2003. 

Jan A . Bertsch (59 ) 

Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President sin ce November 23, 2015. Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Sigma-Aldrich, a life science and technology company, 2012 - 2015. Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at BorgWarner 2011 &#x2013; 2012; Vice President and Treasurer, 2009 - 2011. 

Tim Connor s (41) 

President, O-I Asia Pacific since June 1, 2015; General Manager of O-I Australia 2013 &#x2013; 2015; Vice President of Finance, Asia Pacific 2011 &#x2013; 2013; Vice President of Strategic Planning and Business Development, North America 2010 &#x2013; 2011 . 

Sergio B. O. Galindo (48 ) 

President, O-I North America since June 1, 2015; Vice President and Pres ident of O &#8209;I Asia Pacific 2012 - 2015 ; General Manager of O &#8209;I Colombia 2009 &#8209; 2012. 

John A. Haudrich (48) 

Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy and Integration Officer since November 20, 2015; Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer 2015; Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller 2011 &#x2013; 2015; Vice President of Investor Relations 2009 &#x2013; 2011. 

Paul A. Jarrell (53 ) 

Senior Vice President since 2011; Chief Administrative Officer since 2013; Chief Human Resources Officer 2011 &#8209; 2012. Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for DSM, a life sciences and materials company based in The Netherlands , 2009 &#8209;2011; Vice President and Director of Human Resources for ITT, a fluid technologies and engineered products company , 2006 &#8209;2009. 

Vitaliano Torno (57 ) 

President, O-I Europe since January 1, 2016; Managing Director, O-I Europe 2015; Vice President, European countries 2013 &#x2013; 2015; Vice Pres ident, Marketing and s ales, Europe 2010 - 2013. 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations 

Information as to net sales, segment operating profit, and assets of the Company&#x2019;s reportable segments is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

