 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Our Company 

We are a leader in the research, development and commercialization of organic light emitting diode, or OLED, technologies and materials for use in displays for mobile phones, tablets, televisions, wearables, personal computers, and automotive interiors, as well as solid-state lighting applications. OLEDs are thin, lightweight and power-efficient solid-state devices that emit light, making them highly suitable for use in full-color displays and as lighting products. OLED displays are capturing a growing share of the flat panel display market. We believe that this is because OLEDs offer potential advantages over competing display technologies with respect to power efficiency, contrast ratio, viewing angle, video response time, form factor and manufacturing cost. We also believe that OLED lighting products have the potential to replace many existing light sources in the future because of their high power efficiency, excellent color rendering index, low operating temperature and novel form factor. Our technology leadership and intellectual property position should enable us to share in the revenues from OLED displays and lighting products as they enter mainstream consumer and other markets. 

Our primary business strategy is to (1) further develop and license our proprietary OLED technologies to manufacturers of products for display applications, such as mobile phones, portable media devices, wearable electronic devices, tablets, notebook computers and televisions, and specialty and general lighting products; and (2) develop new OLED materials and sell the materials to those product manufacturers. We have established a significant portfolio of proprietary OLED technologies and materials, primarily through our internal research and development efforts and acquisitions of patents and patent applications, as well as maintaining our relationships with world-class partners such as Princeton University (Princeton), the University of Southern California (USC), the University of Michigan (Michigan) and PPG Industries, Inc. (PPG Industries). We currently own, exclusively license or have the sole right to sublicense more than 3,600 &#32;patents issued and pending worldwide. 

We sell our proprietary OLED materials to customers for evaluation and use in commercial OLED products. We also enter into agreements with manufacturers of OLED display and lighting products under which we grant them licenses to practice under our patents and to use our proprietary know-how. At the same time, we work with these and other companies who are evaluating our OLED technologies and materials for possible use in commercial OLED display and lighting products. 

Market Overview 

The Flat Panel Display Market 

Flat panel displays are essential for a wide variety of portable consumer electronics products, such as mobile phones, portable media devices, digital cameras, wearables, tablets and notebook computers. Due to their narrow profile and light weight, flat panel displays have also become the display of choice for larger product applications, such as computer monitors and televisions. 

Liquid crystal displays, or LCDs, continue to dominate the flat panel display market. However, we believe that OLED displays are an attractive alternative to LCDs because they offer a number of potential advantages, including: 

&#8226; 

higher power efficiencies, thereby reducing energy consumption; 

&#8226; 

a thinner profile and lighter weight; 

&#8226; 

higher contrast ratios, leading to sharper picture images and graphics; 

&#8226; 

wider viewing angles; 

&#8226; 

deposition on non-rigid substrates which enables conformable and flexible displays; 

&#8226; 

faster response times for video; and 

&#8226; 

lower cost manufacturing methods and materials. 

Based on these characteristics, product manufacturers have adopted small-area OLED displays for use in portable electronic devices, such as smartphones, wearables and tablets. Manufacturers have begun commercializing large area OLED displays for use in televisions. We believe that if these efforts are successful, they could result in sizeable markets for OLED displays. 

In addition, due to the inherent transparency of organic materials and through the use of transparent electrode technology, OLEDs eventually may enable the production of transparent displays for use in products such as automotive windshields and windows with embedded displays. Organic materials also make technically possible the development of flexible displays for use in an entirely new set of product applications. Such applications include display devices that can be conformed to certain shapes for wearable, industrial and ruggedized applications. 

The Solid-State Lighting Market 

Traditional incandescent light bulbs are inefficient because they convert only about 5% of the energy they consume into visible light, with the rest emerging as heat. Fluorescent lamps use excited gases, or plasmas, to achieve a higher energy conversion efficiency of about 20%. However, the color rendering index, or CRI, of most fluorescent lamps &#8211; in other words, the quality of their color compared to an ideal light source &#8211; is inferior to that of an incandescent bulb. Fluorescent lamps also pose environmental concerns because they typically contain mercury. 

Solid-state lighting relies on the direct conversion of electricity to visible light using semiconductor materials. By avoiding the heat and plasma-producing processes of incandescent bulbs and fluorescent lamps, respectively, solid-state lighting products can have substantially higher energy conversion efficiencies. 

There are currently two basic types of solid-state lighting devices: inorganic light emitting diodes, or LEDs, and OLEDs. Current LEDs are very small in size (about one square millimeter) and are extremely bright. Having been developed about 25 years before OLEDs, LEDs are already employed in a variety of lighting products, such as traffic lights, billboards, replacements for incandescent lighting, backlights for smartphones, computer monitors and televisions, and as border or accent lighting. However, the high operating temperatures and intense brightness of LEDs may make them less desirable for many general illumination and diffuse lighting applications. 

OLEDs, on the other hand, are larger in size and can be viewed directly, without using diffusers that are required to temper the intense brightness of LEDs. OLEDs can be added to any suitable surface, including glass, plastic or metal foil, and could be cost-effective to manufacture in high volume. Given these characteristics, product manufacturers are working and have introduced limited product applications of OLEDs for diffuse specialty lighting applications and ultimately general illumination. If these efforts are successful, we believe that OLED lighting products could begin to be used for applications currently addressed by incandescent bulbs and fluorescent lamps, as well as for new applications that take advantage of the OLED form factor. In particular, the ability of OLED technology to produce uniform illumination over arbitrary shapes is making OLED lighting very attractive to the automobile industry. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe our position as one of the leading technology developers in the OLED industry is the direct result of our technological innovation. We have built an extensive intellectual property portfolio around our OLED technologies and materials, and are working diligently to enable our manufacturing partners to adopt our OLED technologies and materials for expanding commercial usage. Our key competitive strengths include: 

Technology Leadership 

We are a recognized technology leader in the OLED industry. Along with our research partners, we have pioneered the development of our UniversalPHOLED &#174; &#32;phosphorescent OLED technologies, which can be used to produce OLEDs that are up to four times more efficient than traditional fluorescent OLEDs and significantly more efficient than current LCDs, which are illuminated using backlights. We believe that our phosphorescent OLED technologies and materials are well-suited for industry usage in the commercial production of OLED displays and lighting products. Through our relationships with companies such as PPG Industries and our academic partners, we have also developed other important OLED technologies, as well as novel OLED materials that we believe will facilitate the adoption of our various OLED technologies by product manufacturers. 

Broad Portfolio of Intellectual Property 

We believe that our extensive portfolio of patents, trade secrets and non-patented know-how provides us with a competitive advantage in the OLED industry. Through our internal development efforts, acquisitions, and our relationships with world-class partners such as Princeton, USC, Michigan and PPG Industries, we own, exclusively license or have the sole right to sublicense more than 3,600 &#32;patents issued and pending worldwide. In 2011, we purchased 74 issued U.S. patents from Motorola Solutions, Inc. (f/k/a Motorola, Inc.) (Motorola), together with foreign counterparts in various countries, which patents we had previously licensed from Motorola, and in 2012, we acquired the entire worldwide patent portfolio of more than 1,200 OLED patents and patent applications of Fujifilm Corporation (Fujifilm) for a total cost of $109.5 million. We also continue to accumulate valuable non-patented technical know-how relating to our OLED technologies and materials. 

Focus on Licensing Our OLED Technologies 

We are focused on licensing our proprietary OLED technologies to product manufacturers on a non-exclusive basis. Our current business model does not involve the direct manufacture or sale of OLED display or lighting products. Instead, we seek license fees and royalties from OLED product manufacturers based on their sales of licensed products. We believe this business model allows us to concentrate on our core strengths of technology development and innovation, while at the same time providing significant operating leverage. We also believe that this approach may reduce potential competitive conflicts between us and our customers. 

Licenses with Key Product Manufacturers 

We have licensed our OLED technologies and patents to manufacturers for use in commercial products. In 2015, we entered into a license agreement with LG Display Co., Ltd. (LG Display) for its manufacture of AMOLED display products. In 2011, we entered into a new license agreement with Samsung Mobile Display Co. Ltd. (SMD) for its manufacture of active matrix OLED (AMOLED) display products, which agreement superseded our prior license agreement with Samsung Display Co., Ltd (SDC). In July 2012, SMD merged with SDC. Following the merger, all agreements between us and SMD were assigned to SDC, and SDC is obligated to honor all pre-existing agreements made between us and SMD. We also have license agreements with Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. (Konica Minolta), Sumitomo Chemical Company, Ltd. (Sumitomo), Lumiotec, Inc. (Lumiotec), Pioneer Corporation (Pioneer), Kaneka Corporation (Kaneka) and OLEDWorks L.L.C. (OLEDWorks) for the manufacture of OLED lighting products. Additionally, we have a license agreement with DuPont Displays for its manufacture of solution-processed OLED display products using proprietary OLED materials obtained through us. 

Leading Supplier of UniversalPHOLED Emitter Materials 

We are the leading supplier of phosphorescent emitter materials to OLED product manufacturers. The emitter material, which is designed to efficiently convert electrical energy to a desired wavelength of light, is the key component in an OLED device. PPG Industries currently manufactures our proprietary emitter materials for us, which we then qualify and resell to OLED product manufacturers. We record revenues based on our sales of these materials to OLED product manufacturers. This allows us to maintain close technical and business relationships with the OLED product manufacturers purchasing our proprietary materials, which in turn further supports our technology licensing business. 

Complementary UniversalPHOLED Host Material Business 

We supply certain of our proprietary phosphorescent host materials to OLED product manufacturers. In one design, the emitter material is disbursed into a host material, with the resulting mixture consisting of predominantly host material. PPG Industries is also currently responsible for the manufacture of our proprietary host materials for us, which we then qualify and resell to our customers. We believe that host material sales can be complementary to our phosphorescent emitter material sales business; however, our OLED product manufacturing customers are not required to purchase our host materials in order to utilize our phosphorescent emitter materials. In addition, the host material business is more competitive than the phosphorescent emitter material sales business. This means our long-term prospects for host material sales are uncertain. 

Established Material Supply Relationships 

We have established relationships with well-known manufacturers that are using, or are evaluating, our OLED materials for use in commercial products. In 2015, SDC, LG Display, Tohoku Pioneer Corporation (Tohoku Pioneer), AU Optronics Corporation (AU Optronics) and Konica Minolta purchased our proprietary OLED materials for use in commercial OLED display and lighting products. We continue to work with many product manufacturers that are evaluating our OLED materials and technologies for use in commercial OLED displays and lighting products, including BOE Technology Group Co., Ltd. (BOE), Innolux Corporation (Innolux) (formerly Chimei Innolux Corporation (CMI)), and Kaneka. 

U.S. Government Program Support 

We perform work under research and development contracts with U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. Department of the Army and the U.S. Department of Energy. Under these contracts, the U.S. government funds a portion of our efforts to develop next-generation OLED technologies for applications such as flexible displays and solid-state lighting. This enables us to supplement our internal research and development budget with additional funding. As OLED technology continues to prosper in the marketplace, U.S. government funding will likely continue to decline. 

Experienced Management and Scientific Advisory Team 

Our management team has significant experience in developing business models focused on licensing disruptive technologies in high growth industries. In addition, our management team has assembled a Scientific Advisory Board that includes some of the leading researchers in the OLED industry, such as Professor Stephen R. Forrest of Michigan (formerly of Princeton) and Professor Mark E. Thompson of USC. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our current business strategy is to promote and continue to expand our portfolio of OLED technologies and materials for widespread use in OLED displays and lighting products. We generate revenues primarily by licensing our OLED technologies and selling our proprietary OLED materials to display and lighting product manufacturers. We are presently focused on the following steps to implement our business strategy: 

Target Leading Product Manufacturers 

We are targeting leading manufacturers of flat panel displays and lighting products as potential commercial licensees of our OLED technologies and purchasers of our OLED materials. We also supply our proprietary OLED materials to manufacturers of OLED displays and lighting products for evaluation and for use in product development and for pre-commercial activities, and we provide technical assistance and support to these manufacturers. We concentrate on working closely with OLED product manufacturers because we believe that the successful incorporation of our technologies and materials into commercial products is critical to their widespread adoption. 

Enhance Our Existing Portfolio of PHOLED Technologies and Materials 

We believe that a strong portfolio of proprietary OLED technologies and materials for both displays and lighting products is critical to our success. Consequently, we are continually seeking to expand this portfolio through our internal development efforts, our collaborative relationships with academic and other research partners, and other strategic opportunities. One of our primary goals is to develop new and improved phosphorescent OLED technologies and materials with increased efficiencies, enhanced color gamut and extended lifetimes, which are compatible with different manufacturing methods, so that they can be used by various manufacturers in a broad array of OLED display and lighting products. 

Develop Next-Generation Organic Technologies 

We continue to conduct research and development activities relating to next-generation OLED technologies for both displays and lighting products. We also are funding research by our academic partners on the use of organic thin-film technology in other applications. Our focus on next-generation technologies is designed to enable us to maintain our position as a leading provider of OLED and other organic electronics technologies and materials as new markets emerge. 

Business and Geographic Markets 

We derive revenue from the following: 

&#8226; 

sales of OLED materials for evaluation, development and commercial manufacturing; 

&#8226; 

intellectual property and technology licensing; and 

&#8226; 

technology development and support, including government contract work and support provided to third parties for commercialization of their OLED products. 

Most manufacturers of flat panel displays and lighting products who are or might potentially be interested in our OLED technologies and materials are currently located outside of the United States, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region. To provide on-the-ground support to these manufacturers, we have established wholly-owned subsidiaries in Ireland, Korea, Japan and Hong Kong, as well as a representative office in Taiwan. Our subsidiary in Hong Kong operates a world-class chemistry laboratory to support our expanding research and development initiatives in OLED materials and technologies. Our subsidiary in Ireland is responsible for all material sales world-wide (excluding the United States) and for licensing and managing intellectual property and undertaking certain other business transactions in all non-U.S. territories. 

We receive a majority of our revenues from customers that are domiciled outside of the United States, and our business is heavily dependent on our relationships with these customers. In particular, one of our key customers located in the Asia-Pacific region, SDC, accounted for 62% &#32;of our consolidated revenues for 2015 &#32;and indirectly accounted for 67% of our consolidated revenues for 2015 . Substantially all revenue derived from our customers is denominated in U.S. dollars. 

For more information on our revenues, costs and expenses associated with our business, as well as a breakdown of revenues from North America and foreign sources, please see our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto, as well as &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; included elsewhere in this report. 

Our Technology and its Relation to OLED Technology and Structure 

OLED devices are solid-state semiconductor devices made from thin films of organic material that emit light of various wavelengths when electricity is selectively applied to the emissive layer of the device. OLED devices are typically referred to as incorporating an &#8220;OLED stack.&#8221; OLED stacks vary in specific structure but those commonly used today may include a cathode, an electron injection layer, an electron transport layer, an emissive layer, a hole transport layer, a hole injection layer and an anode, all of which are placed on a substrate which may be made of a number of different materials, including glass, plastic and metal. 

Our technology and materials are most commonly utilized in the emissive layer; the materials in the emissive layer are the light-generating component of the OLED stack. Many of our key technologies relate primarily to phosphorescent emitter materials, which we believe are more energy efficient than fluorescent emitter materials that can also be used to generate light within the emissive layer of the OLED device. We began selling emitter materials commercially in 2003. A manufacturer will use a small amount of emitter material for each device through a process called &#8220;doping&#8221; into a host material. The emitter material(s) and the host material(s) together form an emissive layer system. Depending on the nature of the OLED device, the emissive materials and emissive layer system may be designed to emit different colors. We have commercially produced and sold phosphorescent emitter materials that produce red, yellow, green and light-blue light, which are combined in various ways for the flat panel display and lighting markets. 

Our current materials business, conducted outside the United States by our Irish subsidiary, is focused primarily on the delivery of such emissive materials. We have also developed host materials for the emissive layer and began selling them commercially in 2011. In addition to our materials, which are protected by patents covering various molecular structures, we also have fundamental and important patents that cover various aspects of the OLED device, including the use of phosphorescent emission in an OLED device, flexible OLEDs, lighting, encapsulation, and methods of manufacturing OLEDs. These patents are important to our licensing business because they enable us to provide our business partners important OLED related technology. 

Our Phosphorescent OLED Technologies 

Phosphorescent OLEDs utilize specialized materials and device structures that allow OLEDs to emit light through a process known as phosphorescence. Traditional fluorescent OLEDs emit light through an inherently less efficient process. Theory and experiment show that phosphorescent OLEDs exhibit device efficiencies up to four times higher than those exhibited by fluorescent OLEDs. Phosphorescence substantially reduces the power requirements of an OLED and is useful in displays for hand-held devices, such as smartphones, where battery power is often a limiting factor. 

Phosphorescence is also important for large-area displays such as televisions, where higher device efficiency and lower heat generation may enable longer product lifetimes and increased energy efficiency. 

We have a strong intellectual property portfolio surrounding our existing PHOLED phosphorescent OLED technologies and materials for both displays and lighting products which we market under the UniversalPHOLED &#174; &#32;brand. We devote a substantial portion of our efforts to developing new and improved proprietary PHOLED materials and device architectures for red, green, yellow, blue and white OLED devices. In 2015 , we continued our commercial supply relationships with companies such as SDC and LG Display to use our UniversalPHOLED &#174; &#32;materials for their manufacture of OLED displays. In addition, we continued to work closely with customers evaluating and qualifying our proprietary PHOLED materials for commercial usage in both displays and lighting products, and with other material suppliers to match our PHOLED emitters with their phosphorescent hosts and other OLED materials. 

Our Additional Proprietary OLED Technologies 

Our research, development and commercialization efforts also encompass a number of other OLED device and manufacturing technologies, including the following: 

FOLED &#8482; Flexible OLEDs 

We are working on a number of technologies required for the fabrication of OLEDs on flexible substrates. Most OLED and other flat panel displays are built on rigid substrates such as glass. In contrast, FOLEDs are OLEDs built on non-rigid substrates such as plastic or metal foil. This has the potential to enhance durability and enable conformation to certain shapes or repeated bending or flexing. Eventually, FOLEDs may be capable of being rolled into a cylinder, similar to a window shade. These features create the possibility of new flat panel display product applications that do not exist today, such as a portable, roll-up Internet connectivity and communications device as well as enhance the usefulness of such devices in ruggedized, industrial and wearable computing systems. Manufacturers also may be able to produce FOLEDs using more efficient continuous, or roll-to-roll, processing methods. We currently are conducting research and development on FOLED technologies internally. 

Thin-Film Encapsulation 

We have developed proprietary, patented encapsulation technology for the packaging of flexible OLEDs and other thin-film devices, as well as for use as a barrier film for plastic substrates. Addressing a major roadblock to the successful commercialization of flexible OLEDs, our hybrid, single-layer approach provides barrier performance useful for OLEDs using a potentially cost-effective process. In addition to accelerating the commercial viability of flexible OLEDs, our thin-film encapsulation technology has the potential to provide benefits for a variety of other flexible thin-film devices, including photovoltaics and thin-film batteries. 

UniversalP 2 OLED &#174; &#32; Printable Phosphorescent OLEDs 

The standard approach for manufacturing a small molecule OLED, including a PHOLED, is based on a vacuum thermal evaporation, or VTE, process. With a VTE process, the thin layers of organic material in an OLED are deposited in a high-vacuum environment. An alternate approach for manufacturing a small molecule OLED involves solution processing of the various organic materials in an OLED using techniques such as spin coating or inkjet printing onto the substrate. Solution-processing methods, and inkjet printing in particular, have the potential to be lower cost approaches to OLED manufacturing and scalable to large area displays. For several years, we worked on P 2 OLEDs under joint development agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation. 

OVJP &#174; &#32; Organic Vapor Jet Printing 

OLEDs can be manufactured using other processes as well, including OVJP. As a direct printing technique, OVJP technology has the potential to offer high deposition rates for any size or shaped OLED. In addition, OVJP technology reduces OLED material waste associated with use of a shadow mask ( i.e. , the waste of material that deposits on the shadow mask itself when fabricating an OLED). By comparison to inkjet printing, an OVJP process does not use liquid solvents and therefore the OLED materials utilized are not limited by their viscosity or solvent solubility. OVJP also avoids generation of solvent wastes and eliminates the additional step of removing residual solvent from the OLED device. We have installed a prototype OVJP tool at our Ewing, New Jersey facility, and we continue to collaborate on OVJP technology development with Professor Forrest of Michigan. 

OVPD &#174; &#160; Organic Vapor Phase Deposition 

Another approach for manufacturing a small molecule OLED is based on OVPD. The OVPD process utilizes a carrier gas, such as nitrogen, in a hot walled reactor in a low pressure environment to deposit the layers of organic material in an OLED. The OVPD process may offer advantages over the VTE process or solution processing methods through more efficient materials utilization and enhanced deposition control. We have licensed Aixtron AG, a leading manufacturer of metal-organic chemical vapor deposition equipment, to develop and qualify equipment for the fabrication of OLED displays utilizing the OVPD process. 

TOLED &#32; Transparent OLEDs 

We have developed a technology for the fabrication of OLEDs that have transparent cathodes. Conventional OLEDs use a reflective metal cathode and a transparent anode. In contrast, TOLEDs use a transparent cathode and either a transparent, reflective or opaque metal anode. TOLEDs utilizing transparent cathodes and reflective metal anodes are known as &#8220;top-emission&#8221; OLEDs. In a &#8220;top-emission&#8221; AMOLED, light is emitted without having to travel through much of the device electronics where a significant portion of the usable light is lost. This results in OLED displays having image qualities and lifetimes superior to those of conventional AMOLEDs. TOLEDs utilizing transparent cathodes and transparent anodes may also be useful in novel flat panel display applications requiring semi-transparency or transparency, such as graphical displays in automotive windshields. 

Our Strategic Relationships with Product Manufacturers 

We have established early-stage evaluation programs, development and pre-commercial programs, and commercial arrangements with a substantial number of manufacturers or potential manufacturers of OLED display and lighting products. Many of these relationships are directed towards tailoring our proprietary OLED technologies and materials for use by individual manufacturers. Our ultimate objective is to license our OLED technologies and sell our OLED materials to these manufacturers for their commercial production of OLED products. Our publicly announced relationships with product manufacturers include the following: 

SDC 

We have been working with SDC and providing our next generation PHOLED materials to SDC for evaluation since 2001. In 2011, we entered into a patent license agreement with SDC for its manufacture and sale of AMOLED display products which has a term that extends through December 31, 2017. We also supply our proprietary PHOLED materials to SDC for its use in manufacturing licensed products. Under a separate supplemental agreement, SDC has agreed to purchase a minimum amount of phosphorescent emitter material from us for the manufacture of licensed products. This minimum purchase commitment is subject to SDC&#8217;s requirements for phosphorescent emitter materials and our ability to meet these requirements over the term of the supplemental agreement, which is concurrent with the term of the license agreement. 

LG Display 

We have been providing our proprietary PHOLED materials to LG Display for evaluation, and we have been supporting LG Display in its OLED product development activities for several years. In January 2015, we entered into an OLED patent license agreement and an OLED commercial supply agreement with LG Display, which were effective as of January 1, 2015 and superseded a 2007 commercial supply agreement between the parties for the supply of our proprietary PHOLED materials for use in AMOLED display products. The new agreements have a term that is set to expire by the end of 2022. The patent license agreement provides LG Display a non-exclusive, royalty bearing portfolio license to make and sell OLED displays under the Company's patent portfolio. The patent license agreement calls for license fees, prepaid royalties and running royalties on licensed products. The agreements include customary provisions relating to warranties, indemnities, confidentiality, assignability and business terms. The agreements provide for certain other minimum obligations relating to the volume of materials sales anticipated over the life of the agreements as well as minimum royalty revenue to be generated under the patent license agreement. The Company expects to generate revenue under these agreements that are predominantly tied to LG Display sales of OLED licensed products. The OLED commercial supply agreement provides for the sales of materials for use by LG Display, which may include phosphorescent dopants and host materials. 

AU Optronics 

We have a longstanding collaborative relationship with AU Optronics dating back to 2001. We are providing our proprietary PHOLED materials to AU Optronics for evaluation, and we have helped AU Optronics accelerate its introduction of commercial OLED products into the market. In 2016, we entered into a revised commercial supply agreement for the continued evaluation and commercial supply of our proprietary PHOLED materials. 

Sumitomo 

In 2015, we entered into an OLED patent portfolio license agreement with Sumitomo in which the Company granted Sumitomo a non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty bearing license to make and sell OLED lighting panels using a solution based manufacturing process. The patent license extends for the term of our current patents and pending applications. The license includes a non-refundable license fee, and running royalties based on Sumitomo's future sales revenues of licensed products. 

BOE 

In 2013, we entered into an evaluation agreement with BOE for the evaluation of our materials and technology for use in the manufacture of PHOLED display products. &#32; The parties extended and expanded the evaluation agreement in 2015 to provide additional OLED materials for purchase by BOE under the evaluation agreement. In 2016, we entered into a new commercial supply agreement with BOE which provides for BOE's continued evaluation and commercial use of our proprietary PHOLED materials. 

Sony 

We have been supporting Sony in its development of AMOLED display products for many years. We have supplied, and intend to continue supplying our proprietary PHOLED materials to Sony for evaluation and for potential commercial applications. 

Innolux 

We have been working with Innolux and its predecessor companies since 2007, when we entered into an agreement to supply our proprietary PHOLED materials and technologies to Chi Mei EL Corporation (CMEL) for use in its manufacture of commercial AMOLED display products. In May 2012, we entered into a Commercial Material Supply Agreement, and in August 2013, we extended our current Evaluation Agreement. We continue to supply our proprietary PHOLED materials to Innolux in support of their OLED development efforts. 

Pioneer 

We have been supplying our proprietary PHOLED materials to Tohoku Pioneer, a subsidiary of Pioneer, for the commercial production of passive matrix OLED (PMOLED) display products since 2003. In 2011, we entered into a separate license agreement with Pioneer for its manufacture and sale of OLED lighting products. 

Kaneka 

In 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Kaneka for the manufacture and sale of OLED lighting products. In April 2014, we entered into a Commercial Material Supply Agreement with Kaneka. 

Konica Minolta 

We have been supplying our proprietary PHOLED materials to Konica Minolta for evaluation, and we have been supporting Konica Minolta in its efforts to develop OLED lighting products for many years. In 2008, we entered into a technology license agreement with Konica Minolta for its manufacture and sale of OLED lighting products that utilize our phosphorescent and other OLED technologies. 

Lumiotec 

In January 2012, we entered into a technology license agreement with Lumiotec for its manufacture and sale of OLED lighting products utilizing our phosphorescent and other OLED technologies. The agreement was extended in 2015. 

LG Chem 

We have entered into an evaluation agreement to supply LG Chem, Ltd. (LG Chem) with our proprietary PHOLED materials for use in the development of OLED products. We have also entered into short-term commercial sales agreements with LG Chem, as needed, for their OLED manufacturing needs, which generates commercial chemical sales and license fee revenues from our supply of materials to LG Chem. In late 2015, LG Display announced that it is acquiring the OLED lighting business of LG Chem. We intend to continue our LG Chem OLED lighting relationship with LG Display and cooperate in the transition of the relevant business operations and associated contractual and support services from LG Chem to LG Display. 

NEC Lighting 

We have been supplying our proprietary PHOLED materials to NEC Lighting, Ltd. (NEC Lighting) for the manufacture of sample OLED lighting products. NEC Lighting has publicly exhibited OLED lighting panels that utilize our proprietary PHOLED materials and technology. 

Osram 

In 2015, we entered into an evaluation agreement with Osram for the evaluation of our materials and technology for use in manufacturing OLED lighting products, including automotive OLED lighting products. 

OLEDWorks 

In 2015, we entered into an OLED patent license agreement and an OLED commercial supply agreement with OLEDWorks for use in OLED lighting products. The patent license agreement extends for the term of the applicable patent and patent applications. In 2015, OLEDWorks announced and completed an acquisition of OLED-related lighting assets from Philips, which had been a contracting customer of our proprietary PHOLED materials. the Company has extended rights under the OLEDWorks license agreement and commercial supply agreement to OLEDWorks GmbH, the German company and facility acquired by OLEDWorks from Philips. These rights were granted for as long as OLEDWorks GmbH is a wholly owned affiliate of OLEDWorks. &#160; 

Our OLED Materials Supply Business 

In support of our OLED licensing business, we supply our proprietary UniversalPHOLED materials to display manufacturers and others. We qualify our materials in OLED devices before shipment in order to ensure that they meet required specifications. We believe that our inventory-carrying practices, along with the terms under which we sell our OLED materials (including payment terms), are typical for the markets in which we operate. In 2015, our OLED materials business received recertification in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems standards and guidelines. 

PPG Industries 

We have maintained a close working relationship with PPG Industries since 2000. In 2011, we entered into an agreement with PPG Industries, the term of which continues through December 31, 2017 and shall be automatically renewed for additional one year terms, unless terminated by us with prior notice of one year or terminated by PPG Industries with prior notice of two years. Under that agreement, PPG Industries is responsible, under our direction, for manufacturing scale-up of our proprietary OLED materials, and for supplying us with those materials for research and development, and for resale to our customers, both for their evaluation and for use in commercial OLED products. Through our collaboration with PPG Industries, key raw materials are sourced from multiple suppliers to ensure that we are able to meet the needs of our customers on a timely basis. The raw materials we require for our emitter and host materials are available from multiple sources and historically, we have not had any issues with obtaining access to adequate amounts of any key raw materials. 

Our OLED Material Customers 

Throughout 2015 , we continued supplying our proprietary UniversalPHOLED materials to SDC for use in its commercial AMOLED display products and for its development efforts. SDC is currently the largest manufacturer of AMOLED displays for handset and other personal electronic devices. SDC&#8217;s customers for these products have included many well-known consumer electronics companies throughout the world. 

In 2015 , we also supplied our proprietary UniversalPHOLED materials to LG Display for use in its commercial AMOLED display products, to Tohoku Pioneer for use in its commercial PMOLED display products, and Konica Minolta for its manufacture of commercial OLED lighting products. During the year, we also supplied our proprietary OLED materials to these and various other product manufacturers for evaluation and for purposes of development, manufacturing qualification and product testing. 

Collaborations with Other OLED Material Manufacturers 

We continued our non-exclusive collaborative relationships with other manufacturers of OLED materials during 2015 , including Nippon Steel and Sumikin Chemical Co., Ltd. (NSCC). Most of these relationships are focused on matching our proprietary PHOLED emitters with the host and other OLED materials of these companies. In 2012 we also entered into an agreement with Duksan Hi-Metal Company Limited (Duksan) to provide us host sublimation services in Korea. We believe that collaborative relationships such as these are important for ensuring success of the OLED industry and broader adoption of our PHOLED and other OLED technologies. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development activities are focused on the advancement of our OLED technologies and materials for displays, lighting and other applications. We conduct this research and development both internally and through various relationships with our commercial business partners and academic institutions. In the years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , we incurred expenses of $44.6 million , $41.2 million &#32;and $34.2 million , respectively, on both internal and third-party sponsored research and development activities with respect to our various OLED technologies and materials. 

Internal Development Efforts 

We conduct a substantial portion of our OLED development activities at our state-of-the-art development and testing facility in Ewing, New Jersey. At this newly expanded facility, which now exceeds 50,000 square feet, we perform technology development, including device and process optimization, prototype fabrication, manufacturing scale-up studies, process and product testing, characterization and reliability studies, and technology transfer with our business partners. 

Our Ewing facility houses multiple OLED deposition systems, including a full-color flexible OLED system, a system for fabricating solution-processible OLEDs, and an OVJP organic vapor jet printing system. In addition, the facility contains equipment for substrate patterning, organic material deposition, display packaging, module assembly and extensive testing in Class 100 and 100,000 clean rooms and opto-electronic test laboratories. Our facility also includes state-of-the-art synthetic and analytical chemistry laboratories in which we conduct OLED materials research and make small quantities of new materials that we then test in OLED devices. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed a team of 86 research scientists, engineers and laboratory technicians in both our Ewing and Hong Kong facilities. This team includes chemists, physicists, engineers and technicians with physics, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and organic/inorganic chemistry backgrounds, and highly-trained theoreticians and experimentalists. 

University Sponsored Research 

We have long-standing relationships with Princeton University and USC, dating back to 1994, for the conduct of research relating to our OLED and other organic thin-film technologies and materials for applications such as displays and lighting. This research had been performed at Princeton under the direction of Professor Forrest and at USC under the direction of Professor Thompson. In 2006, Professor Forrest transferred to the University of Michigan, where we continue to fund his research. 

We funded research at Princeton under a research agreement executed in 1997 (the 1997 Research Agreement). The 1997 Research Agreement was allowed to expire in 2007, after Professor Forrest transferred to Michigan. We have exclusive license rights to all OLED and other thin-film organic electronic patents (other than for organic photovoltaic solar cells) arising out of research conducted under that agreement. 

In connection with Professor Forrest&#8217;s transfer to Michigan, in 2006 we entered into a new sponsored research agreement with USC under which we are funding organic electronics research being conducted by Drs. Forrest and Thompson (the 2006 Research Agreement). Work by Professor Forrest is being funded through a subcontract between USC and Michigan. As with the 1997 Research Agreement, we have exclusive license rights to all OLED and thin-film organic electronic patents (other than for organic photovoltaic solar cells) arising out of this research. 

Effective June 1, 2013, we amended the 2006 Research Agreement again to extend the term of the agreement for an additional four years. As of December 31, 2015 , we are obligated to reimburse the universities for up to approximately $3.5 million &#32;in actual costs to be incurred for research conducted under the remaining term of the agreement, which expires April 30, 2017. 

In 2005, we entered into a separate sponsored research agreement with Princeton to fund research under the direction of Professor Sigurd Wagner on thin-film encapsulation and fabrication of OLED devices. This research was completed as of December 31, 2013. Like our other relationships with Princeton, we have exclusive license rights to all patents arising out of the research. 

We entered into a sponsored research agreement with the Yuen Tjing Ling Industrial Research Institute of National Taiwan University in 2004. Under that agreement, we funded a research program under the direction of Professor Ken-Tsung Wong relating to new OLED materials. We have exclusive rights to all intellectual property developed under that program, which was extended through February 2016. 

We entered into a contract research agreement with the Chitose Institute of Science and Technology of Japan (CIST) in 2004. Under that agreement, we funded a research program headed by Professor Chihaya Adachi relating to high-efficiency OLED materials and devices. We were granted exclusive rights to all intellectual property developed under this program. Our relationship with CIST ended in 2006 when Professor Adachi transferred to Kyushu University. However, we have continued our relationship with Professor Adachi under a separate consulting arrangement. 

In 2006 and 2007, we entered into one-year research agreements with Kyung Hee University to sponsor research programs on flexible, amorphous silicon thin-film transistor (TFT) backplane technology. The programs were directed by Professor Jin Jang. In 2008 and 2009, we entered into contract research agreements with Silicon Display Technology, Ltd. (SDT), a company founded by Professor Jang, and in 2013, we entered into another one-year agreement with SDT. We continue to maintain a good working relationship with Professor Jang. 

Aixtron 

In 2000, we entered into a development and license agreement with Aixtron AG of Aachen, Germany to develop and commercialize equipment used in the manufacture of OLEDs using the OVPD process. Under this agreement, we granted Aixtron an exclusive license to produce and sell its equipment for the manufacture of OLEDs and other devices using our proprietary OVPD process. Aixtron is required to pay us royalties on its sales of this equipment. Purchasers of the equipment also must obtain rights to use our proprietary OVPD process to manufacture OLEDs and other devices using the equipment, which they may do through us or Aixtron. If these rights are granted through Aixtron, Aixtron is required to make additional payments to us under our agreement. 

Aixtron has reported to us the delivery of nine OVPD systems since 2002. These include two second-generation systems, one of which was sold to the Fraunhofer Institute for Photonic Microsystems in Dresden, Germany in 2007, and the other of which was sold to RiTdisplay Corporation of Taiwan in 2003. We record royalty income from Aixtron&#8217;s sales of these various systems in the quarters in which Aixtron notifies us of the sale and the related royalties are due. 

U.S. Government-Funded Research 

We have entered into several U.S. government contracts and subcontracts to fund a portion of our efforts to develop next-generation OLED technologies. On contracts for which we were the prime contractor, we subcontract portions of the work to various entities and institutions. We also serve as a subcontractor under certain of our government contracts with PPG Industries. All of our government contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination at the election of the contracting governmental agency. 

Our government-funded programs are concentrated primarily in two areas: flexible OLEDs and OLEDs for lighting. We have received support for our work on flexible OLED technology through various U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) agencies, including the Army Research Laboratory (ARL), the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), the Army Communications-Electronics Research Development and Engineering Center (CERDEC) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) supports our work on white OLEDs for lighting, including through its Solid State Lighting (SSL) initiative. Several of our key U.S. government program initiatives in 2015 &#32;were as follows: 

Technology Development for OLED Lighting 

During 2015, we continued working to develop technical approaches for using our proprietary PHOLED and other OLED technologies for high-efficiency white lighting applications. In 2015, we received funding from the DOE to work with Arizona State University and the University of Michigan. 

The FlexTech Alliance 

We are a member of the FlexTech Alliance, Inc. (formerly the United States Display Consortium), an organization devoted to fostering the growth, profitability and success of the electronic display and the flexible, printed electronics supply chain. The role of the FlexTech Alliance is to offer expanded collaboration between and among industry, academia, government and research organizations for advancing displays and flexible, printed electronics from R&#38;D to commercialization. The FlexTech Alliance has approximately 74 members, as well as additional development partners, including companies, universities and R&#38;D organizations. 

OLED Association 

We are a charter member of the OLED Association (OLED-A). OLED-A is a trade association whose mission involves serving as an OLED information resource, driving OLED technology development, and promoting interest in OLED products. We are one of 18 members of OLED-A, and we actively participate on its marketing and technology committees. Mike Hack, our Vice President of Business Development, serves as a member of the Board of Directors of OLED-A. 

Next Generation Lighting Industry Alliance 

We joined the Next Generation Lighting Industry Alliance (NGLIA) in 2009. NGLIA was formed in 2003 to foster industry-government partnership to accelerate the technical foundation, and ultimate commercialization, of solid state lighting systems. NGLIA was designated in 2005 as the &#8220;industry partner&#8221; by DOE for its SSL program. The SSL program is being undertaken to research, develop and conduct demonstration activities on advanced solid state white lighting technologies based on LEDs and OLEDs. We are one of 15 members of NGLIA. 

OLED Lighting Coalition 

We are a founding member of the OLED Lighting Coalition, a subgroup of OLED-A and NGLIA. The OLED Lighting Coalition is a group of U.S. companies and advocates of OLED technology joined together to promote the OLED lighting industry to the government, public and the lighting community. Mike Hack, our Vice President of Business Development, serves as a member of the Board of Directors of the OLED Lighting Coalition. 

Intellectual Property 

Along with our personnel, our primary and most fundamental assets are patents and other intellectual property. This includes numerous U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that we own, exclusively license or have the sole right to sublicense. It also includes a substantial body of non-patented technical know-how that we have accumulated over time. 

Our Patents 

Our research and development activities, conducted both internally and through collaborative programs with our partners, have resulted in the filing of a substantial number of patent applications relating to our OLED technologies and materials. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned, through assignment to us alone or jointly with others, 355 pending U.S. applications (active U.S. cases and international applications designated in the U.S.) and 532 U.S. patents, together with counterparts filed in various foreign countries. These owned patents will start expiring in the U.S. in 2020. 

Patents We License from Princeton, USC and Michigan 

We exclusively license many of our patent rights, including certain of our key PHOLED technology patents, under the 1997 Amended License Agreement. In 2006, based on Professor Forrest&#8217;s transfer to Michigan that year, Michigan was added as a party to this agreement. As of December 31, 2015, the patent rights we license from these universities included 265 issued U.S. patents, 91 pending U.S. patent applications, together with counterparts filed in various foreign countries. The earliest of these patents expired in the U.S. in 2014, while our key PHOLED technology patents licensed from these universities will start expiring in the U.S. in 2017. 

Under the 1997 Amended License Agreement, Princeton, USC and Michigan granted us worldwide, exclusive license rights to specified patents and patent applications relating to OLED technologies and materials (including our PHOLED technology and materials). Our license rights also extend to any patent rights arising out of the research conducted by Princeton, USC or Michigan under our various research agreements with these entities. We are free to sublicense to third parties all or any portion of our patent rights under the 1997 Amended License Agreement. The term of the 1997 Amended License Agreement continues for the lifetime of the licensed patents, though it is subject to termination for an uncured material breach or default by us, or if we become bankrupt or insolvent. 

Princeton is primarily responsible for the filing, prosecution and maintenance of all patent rights licensed to us under the 1997 Amended License Agreement pursuant to an inter-institutional agreement between Princeton, USC and Michigan. However, we manage this process and have the right to instruct patent counsel on specific matters to be covered in any patent applications filed by Princeton. We are required to bear all costs associated with the filing, prosecution and maintenance of these patent rights. 

We are required under the 1997 Amended License Agreement to pay Princeton royalties for licensed products sold by us or our sublicensees. These royalties amount to 3% of the net sales price for licensed products sold by us and 3% of the revenues we receive for licensed products sold by our sublicensees. These royalty rates are subject to renegotiation for products not reasonably conceivable as arising out of the research agreements if Princeton reasonably determines that the royalty rates payable with respect to these products are not fair and competitive. Princeton shares portions of these royalties with USC and Michigan under their inter-institutional agreement. 

We have a minimum royalty obligation of $100,000 per year during the term of the 1997 Amended License Agreement. We owe royalties under the 1997 Amended License Agreement with Princeton of $5.4 million &#32;for 2015 . We also are required under the 1997 Amended License Agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to bring the licensed OLED technology to market. However, this requirement is deemed satisfied if we invest a minimum of $800,000 per year in research, development, commercialization or patenting efforts respecting the patent rights licensed to us under the 1997 Amended License Agreement. 

Patents We Acquired from Motorola 

In 2000, we entered into a license agreement with Motorola whereby Motorola granted us perpetual license rights to what are now 74 issued U.S. patents relating to Motorola&#8217;s OLED technologies, together with foreign counterparts in various countries. These patents expire in the U.S. between 2014 through 2018. 

In 2011, we purchased these patents from Motorola, including all existing and future claims and causes of action for any infringement of the patents. This effectively terminated our license agreement with Motorola, including any obligation to make royalty payments to Motorola. In consideration for Motorola assigning and transferring the patents to us, we made a one-time cash payment to Motorola of $440,000, and we granted Motorola a royalty-free, non-exclusive and non-sublicensable license under the patents for use by Motorola and its affiliates in their respective businesses. 

Patents We Acquired from Fujifilm Corporation 

In 2012, we entered into a Patent Sale Agreement (the Agreement) with Fujifilm. Under the Agreement, Fujifilm sold more than 1,200 OLED-related patents and patent applications for a total cost of $109.5 million. The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and covenants, including respective covenants not to sue by both parties thereto. The Agreement permitted us to assign all of our rights and obligations under the Agreement to our affiliates, and we assigned, prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement, our rights and obligations to UDC Ireland Limited (UDC Ireland), a wholly-owned subsidiary formed under the laws of the Republic of Ireland. The transactions contemplated by the Agreement were consummated on July 26, 2012. 

Intellectual Property Developed under Our Government Contracts 

We and our subcontractors have developed, and may continue to develop, patentable OLED technology inventions under our various U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. Under these arrangements, we or our subcontractors generally can elect to take title to any patents on these inventions, and to control the manner in which these patents are licensed to third parties. However, the U.S. government reserves rights to these inventions and associated technical data that could restrict our ability to market them to the government for military and other applications, or to third parties for commercial applications. In addition, if the U.S. government determines that we or our subcontractors have not taken effective steps to achieve practical application of these inventions in any field of use in a reasonable time, the government may require that we or our subcontractors license these inventions to third parties in that field of use. 

Non-patented Technical Know-How 

We have accumulated, and continue to accumulate, a substantial amount of non-patented technical know-how relating to OLED technologies and materials. Where practicable, we share portions of this information with display manufacturers and other business partners on a confidential basis. We also employ various methods to protect this information from unauthorized use or disclosure, although no such methods can afford complete protection. Moreover, because we derive some of this information and know-how from academic institutions such as Princeton, USC and Michigan, there is an increased potential for public disclosure. We also cannot prevent the actual independent development of the same or similar information and know-how by third parties. 

Competition 

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete against alternative flat panel display technologies, in particular LCDs, as well as other OLED technologies. We also compete in the lighting market against incumbent technologies, such as incandescent bulbs, fluorescent lamps, inorganic LEDs and emerging technologies, such as other OLED technologies. 

Flat Panel Display Industry Competitors 

Numerous domestic and foreign companies have developed or are developing and improving LCD and other flat panel display technologies that compete with our OLED display technologies. We believe that OLED display technologies ultimately can compete with LCDs and other display technologies for many product applications on the basis of lower power consumption, better contrast ratios, faster video rates, form factor and lower manufacturing cost. However, other companies may succeed in continuing to improve these competing display technologies, or in developing new display technologies, that are superior to OLED display technologies in various respects. We cannot predict the timing or extent to which such improvements or developments may occur. 

Lighting Industry Competitors 

Although there has been a movement to phase out traditional incandescent bulbs throughout many countries, traditional incandescent bulbs and fluorescent lamps remain well-entrenched products in the lighting industry. In addition, compact fluorescent lamps and solid-state LEDs have recently been introduced into the market and would compete with OLED lighting products. Having attributes different from fluorescent lamps and LEDs, OLEDs may compete directly with these products for certain lighting applications. However, manufacturers of LEDs and compact fluorescent lamps may succeed in more broadly adapting their products to various lighting applications, or others may develop competing solid-state lighting technologies that are superior to OLEDs. Again, we cannot predict whether or when this might occur. 

OLED Technology and Materials Competitors 

Eastman Kodak Company (Kodak) developed and patented the original fluorescent OLED technology in 1987. Cambridge Display Technology, Ltd. (CDT), which was acquired by Sumitomo Chemical Company in 2007, developed and patented polymer OLED technology in 1989. Display and lighting manufacturers, including customers of ours, are engaged in their own OLED research, development and commercialization activities, and have developed and may continue to develop proprietary OLED technologies that are necessary or useful for commercial OLED devices. In addition, other material manufacturers, such as Sumitomo, Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (Idemitsu Kosan), Merck KGaA and BASF Corporation, are selling or sampling competing OLED materials to customers, including companies to which we sell our proprietary PHOLED materials. 

Our licensing business is based on our control of a broad portfolio of OLED-related device patents and technology. We believe this portfolio includes fundamental patents in the field of phosphorescent OLED materials and devices, as well as certain additional complementary OLED technologies. As discussed above, alternative technologies, such as fluorescent OLED emitter materials, exist and could be competitive to our phosphorescent OLED material solutions. However, fluorescent materials have characteristics that we believe many market participants consider less desirable than those of phosphorescent materials. Suppliers of fluorescent emitter materials include Dow Chemical (previously Gracel Display), Doosan Electronics, SFC Co. Ltd. and Idemitsu Kosan. Fluorescent materials may also be viewed as complementary in that they can be used in the same OLED stack as phosphorescent materials, especially for use as emitters for generating deep blue pixels in display modules until such time as the OLED industry improves the properties of currently available deep blue phosphorescent materials. 

The competitive landscape with respect to our host materials business is characterized by a larger number of established chemical material suppliers who have long-term relationships with many of our existing customers and licensees. We have elected to partner with certain of these companies to manufacture and deliver our host solutions to our customers, as well as selling our host materials directly to device manufacturers. We believe our competitive advantage stems, in part, from our deep knowledge of our phosphorescent emitter materials, which are complementary with the host solutions. We believe that our understanding of the phosphorescent emitter materials enables us to create host material solutions that are especially well suited for use with a certain class of emitter materials that are implemented commercially today. However, we note that many of our technology partners have their own host solutions and the competitive landscape includes many well-established companies such as Dow Chemical, Idemitsu Kosan, NSCC, Doosan Electronics, Merck KGaA, Cheil Industries and Duksan, which have significant resources and may aggressively pursue such business in the future. 

Our existing business relationships with SDC and other product manufacturers suggest that our OLED technologies and materials, particularly our PHOLED technologies and materials, may achieve a significant level of market penetration in the flat panel display and lighting industries. However, others may succeed in developing new OLED technologies and materials that may supplement or be utilized in place of ours. We cannot be sure of the extent to which product manufacturers will adopt and continue to utilize our OLED technologies and materials for the production of commercial flat panel displays and lighting products. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 153 active full-time employees and one part-time employee, none of whom are unionized. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

Our Company History 

Our corporation was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1985. Our business was commenced in 1994 by a company then known as Universal Display Corporation, which had been incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey. In 1995, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours merged into this New Jersey corporation. The surviving corporation in this merger became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and changed its name to UDC, Inc. Simultaneously with the consummation of this merger, we changed our name to Universal Display Corporation. UDC, Inc. functions as an operating subsidiary of ours and has certain overlapping officers and directors. We have also formed other wholly-owned subsidiaries, including Universal Display Corporation Hong Kong, Ltd. (2008), Universal Display Corporation Korea, Y.H. (2010), Universal Display Corporation Japan, G.K. (2011) and UDC Ireland Limited (2012), and we established a representative office in Taiwan (2011). 

Our Compliance with Environmental Protection Laws 

We are not aware of any material effects that compliance with Federal, State or local environmental protection laws or regulations will have on our business. We have not incurred substantial costs to comply with any environmental protection laws or regulations, and we do not anticipate having to do so in the foreseeable future. 

Our Internet Site 

Our Internet address is www.udcoled.com. We make available through our Internet website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). In addition, we have made available on our Internet website under the heading &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; the charter for the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, the charter for the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors, the charter for the Nominating &#38; Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, our Code of Ethics &#38; Business Conduct for Employees, and our Code of Conduct for Directors. We intend to make available on our website any future amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics &#38; Business Conduct for Employees and our Code of Conduct for Directors. The information on our Internet site is not part of this report. 

