 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

General Development of Business 

Omnitek Engineering, Corp., a California corporation, began operations on October 10, 2001, and was a spin-off from Nology Engineering, Inc., a manufacturer in the automotive aftermarket parts industry and the developer/manufacturer of the patented "HotWires" spark plug wires. We currently conduct our business activities at our offices at 1333 Keystone Way, Suite 101, Vista, California, 92081, which consists of approximately 25,000 square feet of industrial space.

Omnitek has never filed for bankruptcy and has never been subject to receivership or similar proceedings.

Omnitek's common stock is currently trading on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") marketplace under the symbol OMTK.

Financial Information 

The audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 are attached hereto as Item 8 in this annual report.

Business of Issuer 

Omnitek develops and sells proprietary diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion systems and complementary products, including new natural gas engines that utilize the Company's technology. Omnitek products are available for stationary applications (generator sets), the global transportation industry, which includes light commercial vehicles, minibuses, heavy-duty trucks, municipal buses, as well as rail and marine applications. The technology can be used for compressed natural gas ("CNG"), liquefied natural gas ("LNG"), or Biogas ("RNG").

As long as the prices for diesel fuel remains elevated, and the threat of climate change and air pollution remain a public concern, the search for cheaper and cleaner burning fuel alternatives becomes increasingly more important. Natural gas has emerged as an attractive option to address these challenges. Readily available in many countries from indigenous sources, natural gas is relatively inexpensive and clean burning compared with gasoline or diesel. We have developed a system that can be used to convert most diesel engines to be able to operate using natural gas at a cost lower than that required to purchase a new natural gas engine.

&#160;

Engine conversions in the United States are subject to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") approval and the cost for converting each engine model ranges from $15,000 to $35,000, depending on engine features, exclusive of the cost of the natural gas tank and labor. Engine conversions in certain foreign countries may require less sophisticated emission control components, resulting in substantially reduced costs ranging from $3,000 to $15,000, depending on the engine model and application, again exclusive of the fuel storage system and labor. During the past year, we have seen a shift in demand, from domestic to our international clients for engine conversions due primarily to lower oil prices. With the price disparity overseas between diesel and natural gas still a market driver, mostly as a result of higher taxes on diesel fuel, most of our business has been overseas. Additionally, we expect the 200-nation "Paris Agreement on Climate Change" to further increase demand for our technology, with foreign fleet conversions outpacing the domestic market until domestic oil prices begin to increase again. The Company believes it is well-positioned in both global and domestic markets to capitalize on the increasing awareness of environmental concerns, and believes it has a competitive advantage over new natural gas engines and other available technologies for the heavy-duty engine market.

In addition to the engine conversion cost, fleets also have to consider the cost of the natural gas storage tanks on the vehicle. This cost varies depending on the gas storage volume needed and the tank technology used, but can range from $2,000 for a single tank system, up to $50,000 for a multi-tank system for heavy-duty class 8 over the road trucks.

Omnitek can also deliver complete new natural gas engines when local emission standards, or other conditions, require the use of new engines.

(1) Principal Products or Services . 

Omnitek offers four main product lines at this time.

A conversion kit for converting rich-burn natural gas engines to lean-burn;

A conversion kit for converting diesel engines to run on natural gas;

New complete natural gas engines; and,

Natural gas components

Conversion Kits (Rich-to-Lean Burn Natural Gas ) - We offer conversion kits which convert rich burning natural gas engines to lean burning natural gas engines. The terms "rich-burn" and "lean-burn" refer to the air-to-fuel ratio under which an engine is operating. An engine which is operating under rich-burn conditions uses more fuel than an engine tuned to lean-burn. Therefore it is desirable to tune an engine to lean-burn, which supplies less fuel to the engine and reduces operating costs.

Conversion Kits (Diesel-to-Natural Gas ) - Omnitek offers a solution to convert diesel engines to operate on natural gas. This diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion technology is the primary product offered by Omnitek. This product is packaged in kit form and is offered in two basic variations. One is designed to work on engines with a turbocharger and the other is designed to work on engines without a turbocharger. Both kits are comprised of up to 20 individual components depending on the particular engine specifications.

Diesel engines have a service life of up to 20 years and require regular engine overhauls. A diesel to natural gas conversion is not unlike an engine overhaul. Therefore, the Company's engine conversion system enables a fleet to "overhaul/convert" its diesel engines into natural gas engines during its normally scheduled engine overhaul, thereby reducing overall operating costs and emissions without losing needed performance and adding in additional costs.

Natural gas conversions offer fleet operators the opportunity to secure their investment and capitalize on the long-life of diesel engines.

On January 22, 2013, the EPA approved the Company's diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion technology for the widely operated line of heavy-duty Navistar DT466E and DT530E engines under the specific and rigorous criteria related to the agency's Outside Useful Life definition.

On June 9, 2014, the EPA approved the Company's diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion technology for the line of heavy-duty all Mack E7 electronic engines up to model year 2006. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States and covers 166 Mack E7 engine/model/power variations.

On September 11, 2014, the EPA provided a Certificate of Conformity applicable for diesel-to-natural gas conversions of the Detroit Diesel Series 60 engine families for model years 1988 to 2009. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States and covers the 11.1 liter, 12.7 liter, and 14.0 DD60S engine models.

On April 23, 2015, the EPA provided a Certificate of Conformity applicable for diesel-to-natural gas engine conversions of the popular Caterpillar C15 engine family for model years 1993 to 2006. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States and covers the Caterpillar 3406E, C15, C15 ACERT and C16 engine models.

In addition to the Conversion Kits, Omnitek sells the individual component replacement parts for the conversion kits. The high-pressure natural gas filter is our top-selling replacement part, which is also supplied to certain natural gas vehicle manufacturers as original equipment ("OEM").

The key to the success of our technology is performance and reliability, which is achieved using our patented fuel mixing device and our proprietary electronic control unit which senses engine parameters in real time and instantly makes fuel mixture adjustments to deliver the correct amount of fuel and the correct ignition timing.

Omnitek does not perform installation of the conversion kits directly, but rather trains dealers and sub-dealers around the world to perform the engine conversions using our conversion kits. It takes four to five days of training for a dealer or sub-dealer to become proficient to perform the engine conversion.

Most diesel engines can be converted by using one of our conversion kits, however, there is no assurance that diesel vehicle owners will elect to convert their diesel engines to operate on natural gas. Additionally, while the Company is not aware of any other company offering a similar engine conversion kit for heavy duty diesel engines at this time, one could be developed by a competitor and there are no guarantees that the owners of the engines would choose the Omnitek conversion kit to convert their engines.

New Natural Gas Engines - Under certain conditions it is not cost effective, or technologically feasible, to convert a diesel engine to operate on natural gas. Also, there are times when local emission standards may dictate the use of highly sophisticated technology that cannot be easily retrofitted to an older engine. Under those conditions, we can deliver a new purpose built natural gas engine.

Natural Gas Components &#8211; Omnitek supplies natural gas engine management components to OEM and aftermarket customers. The high-pressure natural gas filter is used by several OE vehicle manufacturers around the world.

(2) Markets 

Worldwide 

The Company has the ability to sell and deliver its products anywhere in the world through its distributors, engine manufacturers, system integrators, fleet operators, engine conversion companies and directly to end-users. The Company's conversion technology has been used to convert heavy-duty diesel engines to operate on natural gas worldwide since 2001 and has been successfully adapted to work with many different engine designs and configurations. Over 5,000 engines have been converted worldwide utilizing the Omnitek technology. Converted engines can be tuned to meet current emissions standards.

The majority of our markets can best be divided into two groups:

1.

Countries not requiring compliance with emissions standards, or no standards are in place (therefore emissions certification is not necessary - shorter time to market); or,

2.

Countries that require compliance with emissions standards (emissions certification is necessary - longer time to market and more costly).

Additionally, within both of those two market groups above, we can further segregate the marketplace into the following categories:

&#160;

1. Countries that have to import diesel (crude oil) and natural gas; or, 

2. Countries that have to import diesel (crude oil), but have their own supply of natural gas. 

The governments of many countries with natural gas supplies mandate that businesses and government vehicles convert to use their domestic fuel supply.

&#160;

Some governments offer incentives to convert fleets currently running on diesel, which is expected to increase demand in those regions. 

We have in the past focused primarily on countries not requiring compliance with emissions standards. The development of engine conversion kits for sale in these markets is mostly completed. When a customer asks to have a conversion kit developed for a specific engine, we are compensated in advance.

When contacted, we approach the issue of "converting or replacing" high-polluting diesel engines by offering two main options, which in large part is influenced by the level of technological capabilities within the country, emission requirements, and financial feasibility.

The first option is focused on working with local companies in an effort to convert diesel engines to natural gas. Alternatively, we can supply new dedicated natural gas engines as a second option.

To achieve the conversions, we supply engineering support to rebuild and convert the engines locally. This offers an economic benefit to the local economy by keeping the rebuild work in the community. The engines are equipped with our technology, allowing for the engines to be tuned meeting the local emission standards.

In the second scenario, we would supply brand new low-polluting, natural gas engines. This may be a better option when the existing engines are based on old and outdated technology and/or strict emissions standards are in place.

United States 

In the United States the installation and sale of our conversion systems for on-road applications is subject to regulations imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), and with regard to sales and installations within the state of California, the State of California Air Resource Board ("CARB"). Receiving EPA certification allows Omnitek to install and sell its conversion systems in 48 states, excluding California and Maryland.

In 2011, the EPA announced new regulations applicable to certifying and converting diesel and gasoline engines to operate on natural gas. This was a milestone for the alternative fuel industry and a significant advancement in lessening the United States dependence on foreign oil. Converting diesel engines to operate on either liquefied natural gas or compressed natural gas provides an economical and environmental solution to new engine replacement. These new EPA regulations have made it possible for Omnitek to certify and convert diesel engines in a cost-effective manner and introduce the technology to the U.S. market.

Late in 2014 CARB posted final regulations and guidelines to certify and convert diesel engines to operate on natural gas. We are currently devising a plan for certifying engines for use in California.

On January 22, 2013, the EPA approved the Company's diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion system for the widely operated line of heavy-duty Navistar DT466E and DT530E engines under the specific and rigorous criteria related to the agency's Outside Useful Life definition. This certification allows Omnitek to install and sell its conversion systems in 48 states, excluding California and Maryland. The Navistar DT466E and DT530E engines were produced in approximately 130 different configurations from 1996 through 2003, representing an estimated addressable market of 1.5 million potential conversions. 

On June 9, 2014, the EPA approved the Company's diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion technology for the line of heavy-duty all Mack E7 electronic engines up to model year 2006. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States, excluding California and Maryland, and covers 166 Mack E7 engine/model/power variations. The Mack E7 electronic engines produced from model year 1996 through 2006 represent an estimated addressable market of over 500,000 potential conversions. 

&#160;

On September 11, 2014, the EPA provided a Certificate of Conformity applicable for diesel-to-natural gas conversions of the Detroit Diesel Series 60 engine families for model years 1988 to 2009. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 48 States, excluding California and Maryland, and covers 195 engine/model/power variations, including the 11.1 liter, 12.7 liter, and 14.0 DD60S engine models. The Detroit Diesel Series 60 engines produced from 1988 through 2009, representing an estimated addressable market of near one million potential conversions. 

On April 23, 2015, the EPA provided a Certificate of Conformity applicable for diesel-to-natural gas engine conversions of the popular Caterpillar C15 engine family for model years 1993 to 2006. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States and covers the Caterpillar 3406E, C15, C15 ACERT and C16 engine models. 

Industry observers believe that up to eight million heavy-duty vehicles in the U.S. could benefit from a conversion to natural gas. Replacing old diesel trucks with new natural gas-powered trucks is certainly an option, but it is much more expensive than engine conversions and natural gas engine manufacturers have very limited capacity and product offerings.

(3) &#160; Distribution Methods of the Products or Services . 

Omnitek currently has distributors in more than 12 countries which market and distribute its products. The Company is continuously seeking additional global distribution partners to expand its distribution network. In certain markets, outside the United States, the Company competes against other companies with greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues. Please see the section entitled "Competition" below and also the relevant Risk Factors in ITEM 1A below.

Distribution Agreements . From time to time, Omnitek may enter into exclusive or non-exclusive distribution agreements with its dealers, distributors or authorized diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion kit installation centers ("AIC").

Internet . Our products, as well as information regarding new product introductions and company news, are available online at our website, www.omnitekcorp.com.

(4) &#160; Status of any publicly announced new product or service . 

On January 27, 2015, the Company announced that its natural gas engine technology is being utilized in two TEDOM natural gas locomotive engines powering a Czech Railways train in a pilot program with scheduled service three times daily between the Czech ci ties of Opava and Hlu&#269;&#237;n. The low-emission dedicated natural gas engines from TEDOM are certified to the Euro5 EEV emissions standard. This pilot program was developed by the transport division of Vitkovice Machinery Group and the Czech Railway Research Institution in cooperation with engine manufacturer TEDOM s.r.o. Ltd., a long-time customer of Omnitek Engineering. The pilot program is seeking to demonstrate the economic, environmental and practical applications of CNG for rail transportation.

On February 9, 2015, we announced an order for a diesel-to-natural gas converted engine for a 225 kilowatt power generator from a multinational power solutions company, which is also the system integrator for an emergency backup power system being developed for a micro-grid project in the Northeast United States. The project was part of an initiative to address potential power outages at critical service locations during natural disasters -- particularly law enforcement, fire departments and other critical services.

On February 26, 2015, the Company announced it has received an order for a 12-cylinder, 600 kilowatt natural gas power generator to operate the NatGas Bernardo Quintana CNG fueling station in Queretaro, Mexico, with a capacity to serve an anticipated 200 CNG buses and 1,000 taxi vehicles per day. Cost benefits and the assurance of an uninterrupted source of electric power for fueling vehicles were cited as two primary factors in the decision to install our natural gas generator.

On April 2, 2015, we announced a follow-on order for 45 natural gas engine systems from the Czech Republic engine and bus manufacturer TEDOM s.r.o LTD, the company's exclusive OEM customer in the region. The TEDOM 12-liter engine equipped with the Omnitek system, certified to meet the Euro VI emission standards tested according to the World Harmonized Transient Cycle, opens a vast market as the Euro VI emission standards are fully implemented in 2015 in many countries around the world.

&#160;

On April 23, 2015, the Company announced it has received a Certificate of Conformity from the EPA applicable for diesel-to-natural gas engine conversions of the popular Caterpillar C15 engine family for model years 1993 to 2006. The Certificate of Conformity allows engine conversions to proceed in 49 States and includes the Caterpillar 3406E, C15, C15 ACERT and C16 engine models. We will be able to offer 100 percent dyno-tested "drop-in" ready converted engines, configured for quick installation. An assembly line engine remanufacturing/conversion process will assure that engines are in "as new" condition with the highest quality and uniformity. We anticipate drayage trucks will comprise a large portion of the company's Caterpillar diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion business.

On June 3, 2015, we announced our exclusive distributor in Turkey, Teknosis, expanded its strategic position in that country through a collaborative alliance with natural gas infrastructure company Naturelgaz and Hayat Inovasyon, a subsidiary of Hayat Holding, the seventh largest conglomerate in Europe, with a near-term goal to accelerate the utilization of natural gas engines for heavy-duty truck applications and municipal buses.

On August 6, 2015, the Company announced that a 12-liter natural gas engine manufactured by TEDOM s.r.o. Ltd. and equipped with Omnitek's proprietary natural gas engine management system received EURO 6 emissions certification. TEDOM, an engine and bus manufacturer based in the Czech Republic, is the company's exclusive OEM customer in the region. 

On August 31, 2015, we announced that our exclusive distributor in Turkey, Teknosis, is now operating under the name Omnitek Turkiye, as it accelerates sales and marketing of diesel-to-natural gas engine conversions for heavy-duty trucks and municipal buses throughout the country. Omnitek Turkiye's R&#38;D Center is now fully operational and focused on developing conversion kits for an expanding line of specific engine models operating in the Turkish market.

Throughout the year, the Company supplied its existing OE customers as well as its Dealers and Distributors around the world with conversion kits and components. TATA Motors of India has retained Omnitek as its OE supplier for of its high-pressure natural gas filter.

(5) Competitive business conditions and the Company's competitive position in the industry and methods of competition . 

We believe our products have many important advantages, some of which are performance, ease of use, and lower cost. We compete in a small segment of the transportation and energy arena. Most of the larger multinational corporations do not offer a complete solution for the markets the Company services. We believe that competition in these markets is principally based on the quality of the product, performance, reliability, service, deliverability, and price. Because of the Company's limited financial resources, Omnitek could be at a competitive disadvantage compared to most other suppliers of competitive products and services outside the United States.

Competition - Diesel-to-Natural Gas Engine Conversions. 

The Company encounters competing products in countries where no emission standards are enforced, and where carbureted systems are still being used such as China, India, Bangladesh, Peru and others. These systems can be used to convert low power diesel engines found in these countries. When converting emissions controlled high power engines, as found in the USA and Western Europe, a fuel injection system, like the Omnitek system, must be used.

As of today, the Company is not aware of any direct competitors to its diesel-to-natural gas engine conversion technology for high-power heavy-duty diesel engines required to meet US EPA or CARB emissions standards. Suppliers like Fuel Systems Solutions, Bosch and Keihin supply mainly original equipment engine manufacturers and do not offer complete systems to convert diesel engines to natural gas. Cummins offers new natural gas engines, not engine conversion systems.

There are numerous companies, such as BRC, Landirenzo, Tartarini, OMVL, Tomasetto, supplying natural gas components for use on gasoline cars and small trucks. These technologies have been on the market for many years and millions of vehicles have been converted worldwide using these technologies. However, this technology is not suitable for heavy-duty diesel engines, and is not in direct competition with Omnitek's technology. At this time Omnitek is not planning to compete in the small-engine market.

&#160;

Competition - Dual Fuel Technology 

The dual fuel technology, where natural gas is mixed with diesel and both fuels are used at the same time, offers low-money savings potential and is not considered a competing technology.

Competition - New Natural Gas Engines. 

Under certain conditions it is not cost effective, or technologically feasible, to convert a diesel engine to operate on natural gas. Emission standards sometimes dictate the use of highly sophisticated technology that cannot be easily retrofit onto an engine. For those situations, Omnitek offers purpose built new natural gas engines which can be used in buses, trucks, generators and other stationary applications.

As of the time of this report there are a very limited number of new natural gas engine suppliers. In the United States only Cummins offers EPA certified natural gas engines. We believe that additional competitors will emerge as this market matures.

(6) &#160; Sources and availability of raw materials and the names of the Principal Suppliers . 

Omnitek does not utilize any specialized raw materials. We rely on nonaffiliated suppliers for various standard and customized components and on manufacturers of assemblies that are incorporated into our products. We do not have long-term supply or manufacturing agreements with suppliers and manufacturers. In some instances alternative sources may be limited. If these suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity, or quality assurance difficulties, or cease production and sale of such products, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with these suppliers or manufacturers, we will be required to locate alternative sources of supply. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components, if and as required in the future, may subject us to:

delays in delivery or shortages in components that could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products;

increased component prices and supply delays as we establish alternative suppliers; inability to develop alternative sources for product components;

required modifications of our products, which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs, and increased product prices; and,

increased inventory costs as we hold more inventory than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance, which may result in write-offs if we are unable to use all such products in the future. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, five suppliers accounted for 34% of products purchased compared with the year ended December 31, 2014, where four suppliers accounted for 42% of products purchased.

See Risk Factors Item " Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and &#160; equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs." 

(7) &#160; Dependence on one or few major customers . 

The Company believes that the diversity of the product line offered alleviates the dependence on any customer. Through a widespread use of our product line, Omnitek is striving to develop a wide base of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2015, eight customers accounted for approximately 58% of sales compared with the year ended December 31, 2014, where eight customers accounted for approximately 56% of sales. 

(8) Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts, including duration . 

Omnitek holds the following Patents and Trademarks:

US Patents:

REG NO.

TITLE

FILING DATE

JURISDICTION

6,374,816

Apparatus and Method for Combustion Initiation

04/23/2001

United States

7,019,626

Multi-fuel Engine Conversion System and Method

03/03/2005

United States

7,426,920

Fuel Mixer Apparatus and Method

06/06/2007

United States

Trademarks :

MARK

REG. NO

CLASS

REG. DATE

OWNER

JURISDICTION

Omnitek

40

2/3/2004

Omnitek

United States

Omnitek

12

5/6/2014

Omnitek

United States

Omnitek

7

5/6/2014

Omnitek

United States

The protection of proprietary rights relating to Omnitek's products and expertise is critical for our business. We intend to file additional patent applications to protect certain technology and improvements considered important to the development of our business. The Company also intends to rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.

Although the Company intends to seek patent protection for its proprietary technology and products in the United States and in foreign countries, the patent positions of our products, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Consequently, we do not know whether any of the patent applications that we have and will consider filing will result in the issuance of any patents, or whether such patent applications will be circumvented or invalidated. There can be no assurance that all United States patents that may pose a risk of infringement can or will be identified. Additionally, Omnitek has not sought to identify foreign patent applications that might affect existing patent applications currently on file with the Unites States Patent and Trademark Office. If we are unable to obtain licenses where we may have infringed on other patents, we could encounter delays in product market introductions while attempting to design around such intellectual property rights, or we could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be prevented. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against it on such intellectual property rights or prosecuting suits, which the Company brings against other parties to protect its intellectual property rights. Competitors or potential competitors may have filed applications for, or have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to, compounds or processes competitive with those of Omnitek. See number 5 above, "Competitive business conditions and the Company's competitive position in the industry and methods of competition."

The Company relies on certain patented and unpatented trade secrets for a significant part of its intellectual property rights, and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that Omnitek can meaningfully protect its rights to its unpatented trade secrets. We intend to require each our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements either upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with Omnitek or at a later time. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for Omnitek's trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.

We do not believe that any of our products or other proprietary rights infringe upon the rights of third parties. However, it cannot assure that others may not assert infringement claims against Omnitek in the future and recognize that any such assertion may require us to incur legal and other defense costs, enter into compromise royalty arrangements, or terminate the use of some technologies. Further, we may be required to incur legal and other costs to protect its proprietary rights against infringement by third parties.

Licenses and Royalty Agreements 

We have not entered into any license and royalty agreements which have resulted in royalty payments.

&#160;

Other Agreements 

As part of the build-out of the U.S. and international dealer network, the Company has entered into agreements with various companies in the USA and foreign countries.

(9) &#160; Need of any governmental approval of principal products or services . 

Our products are presently sold to commercial users. As stated above, our conversion technology as applied in the United States is subject to approval from the EPA as well as certain state agencies such as CARB with regard to sales and installations within California.

Products and conversion systems that receive EPA certification can be installed and sold in 48 states, but not California and Maryland.

Late in 2014, CARB posted final regulations and guidelines to certify and convert diesel engines to operate on natural gas. Omnitek is currently devising a plan for certifying converted engine for use in California.

Currently Omnitek has received EPA approval and certification for our diesel-to-natural gas conversion technology for the heavy-duty Navistar DT466E and DT530E, all Mack E7 electronic engines up to model year 2006, the Detroit Diesel Series 60 engine families for model years 1988 to 2009, and the Caterpillar C15 engine families for model years 1993 to 2006.

Omnitek is and will continue to apply for approval and certification of additional engines. Each kit development and certification will cost up to $125,000.

(10) &#160; Effect of existing or probable governmental regulations on the business . 

See item number 9, immediately above, for a discussion of EPA and CARB regulation.

Omnitek is subject to the requirements of Regulation 13A under the Exchange Act, which require us to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all other obligations of the Exchange Act applicable to issuers with stock registered pursuant to Section 12(g). We are also subject to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), which regulates proxy solicitations. 

Management believes that these reporting obligations increase the Company's annual legal and accounting costs by an estimated $30, 000 and $27,000, respectively.

Other than as set forth above, we are not aware of any other governmental regulations now in existence or that may arise in the future that would have an effect on our business.

&#160;

(11) &#160; Research and Development . 

Research and development expenditures for the last two fiscal years, 2015 and 2014, were $295,190 and $600,091 respectively, and were comprised of charges for engine certification testing, purchase of equipment and parts for R&#38;D, and the cost of personnel in the development of products and services. 

In some cases, a customer will send an engine to our location and pay to have a conversion kit developed for a specific engine and/or application. In this case, we require an up-front payment from the customer.

Omnitek, depending on demand, may develop additional conversion kits for the U.S. market. The cost of developing each kit and completing the required certification can cost up to $125,000 per engine model.

(12) &#160; Costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws . 

Except as discussed above in item number 9, our business activities are not subject to any environmental laws and we do not anticipate that our future business activities will subject the Company to any environmental compliance regulations.

&#160;

(13) &#160; Number of total employees and number of full-time employees. 

&#160;

As of the date of this report, we employ a total of 11 persons, all of which are full-time employees, and one part-time employee. These full-time employees include, Werner Funk and Richard Miller who are also officers, and in the case of Mr. Funk a director, of Omnitek. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees, who are not represented by a collective bargaining organization, and there no organized labor agreements or union agreements between Omnitek and any employees exist.

&#160;

We are outsourcing certain services that are not proprietary in nature. We intend to continue to use the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services. We believe that this use of third-party service providers will enhance our ability to contain general and administrative expenses.

Reports to Security Holders 

The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C. 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Information may be obtained on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . Moreover, we maintain a website at http://www.omnitekcorp.com that contains important information about Omnitek. This information is publicly available and is updated regularly. 

