 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

GTx, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1997 and headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee, is a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecules for the treatment of cancer, including treatments for breast and prostate cancer, and other serious medical conditions. Our current strategy is focused on the further development of selective androgen receptor modulators, or SARMs, a class of drugs that we believe have the potential to be used as a hormonal therapy for the treatment of advanced breast cancer, as well as the potential to treat other serious medical conditions where unmet medical needs in muscle-related diseases may benefit from increasing muscle mass, such as stress urinary incontinence, or SUI, and Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD. In March 2015, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with the University of Tennessee Research Foundation, or UTRF, to develop its proprietary selective androgen receptor degrader, or SARD, technology, which has the potential to provide compounds that can degrade multiple forms of androgen receptor, or AR, to inhibit tumor growth in patients with progressive castration-resistant prostate cancer, or CRPC, including those patients who do not respond or are resistant to current therapies. 

Our lead SARM candidate, enobosarm (GTx-024), has to date been evaluated in 24 completed or ongoing clinical trials, including in six Phase 2 and two Phase 3 clinical trials, enrolling over 1,500 subjects, of which approximately 1,000 subjects were treated with enobosarm. Enobosarm is the generic name given to the compound by the USAN Council and the World Health Organization and is the first compound to receive the SARM stem in its name, recognizing enobosarm as the first in this new class of compounds. We announced during the second quarter of 2014 positive results from a Phase 2 proof-of-concept, open-label clinical trial evaluating a 9 mg oral daily dose of enobosarm for the treatment of patients with estrogen receptor, or ER, positive and AR positive metastatic breast cancer who have previously responded to hormonal therapy. During the second half of 2015, we commenced enrollment in both a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients with advanced AR positive triple-negative breast cancer, or TNBC, and a Phase 2 clinical trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients whose breast cancer is both ER positive and AR positive. We currently estimate we have sufficient funding through the end of 2016 to allow us to obtain the results from the patients enrolled in the first stage of each clinical trial, but our ability to enroll patients to the second stage and complete both of these clinical trials will require us to seek sufficient additional funding. 

We are also evaluating enobosarm and other compounds in our SARM portfolio for indications outside of oncology where unmet medical needs in muscle-related diseases may benefit from increasing muscle mass. In the first quarter of 2016, we initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial of enobosarm to treat postmenopausal women with SUI. This is the first clinical trial to evaluate a SARM for the treatment of SUI. We anticipate top-line data by the end of 2016. We are also currently evaluating several SARM compounds in preclinical models of DMD where a SARM's ability to increase muscle mass may prove beneficial to patients suffering from DMD, which is a rare disease characterized by progressive muscle degeneration and weakness. Our evaluation of SARMs as a potential treatment for DMD is at an early stage, and our ability to meaningfully advance development of SARMs as a potential treatment for DMD is subject to our ability to obtain additional funding. 

With respect to SARDs, we believe this class of assets has the potential to treat prostate cancer, as well as other diseases such as benign prostatic hyperplasia and Kennedy's disease. We envision initially developing SARDs as a potentially novel treatment for men with CRPC, including those who do not 

respond or are resistant to currently approved therapies. Our evaluation of the licensed SARD program is at an early stage. We are currently implementing our preclinical development program for SARDs and have selected appropriate drug development candidates for the preclinical studies required to support initial first in human clinical trials. However, to complete preclinical development of our SARD program through the requisite preclinical studies to support initial human clinical trials, we will require additional funding. 

We presently have an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating GTx-758 (Capesaris&#174;), an oral nonsteroidal selective ER alpha agonist, as a secondary hormonal therapy in men with metastatic and high risk non-metastatic CRPC, which will be completed this year. Based on the significant resources that would be needed to advance GTx-758, we do not plan to further develop this program after the conclusion of this Phase 2 clinical trial. 

Scientific Background on Estrogen and Androgen Hormones, Selective Hormone Receptor Modulators, and Selective Androgen Receptor Degraders 

Estrogens and androgens are hormones that play critical roles in regulating the reproductive system and contributing to the homeostasis of the muscular, skeletal, cardiovascular, metabolic and central nervous systems. 

Testosterone, the predominant androgen, is important for masculine physical characteristics, such as muscle size and strength and bone strength, as well as for mental well-being. Testosterone is converted into a more potent androgen, dihydrotestosterone, or DHT, which acts as the primary androgen in the prostate, sebaceous glands and hair follicles, and may cause unwanted effects like benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH, acne and hair loss. In aging men, there typically is a gradual decline in testosterone levels, which contributes to a loss of muscle mass and strength, erectile dysfunction, decreased sexual interest, depression and mood changes. Moreover, in men, testosterone is converted to estradiol, the primary estrogen in men and women. Estrogens improve bone quality and reduce the risk of hot flashes and skeletal fractures. 

Estrogens and androgens perform their physiologic functions principally by binding to and activating their respective hormone receptors located in various tissues. Once a hormone binds with its receptor, this activates a series of cellular events that results in the hormone specific tissue effects. 

Pharmaceuticals that target estrogen or androgen receptors have been used medically for over 50 years. The drugs that have been used to stimulate androgen receptors are either natural or synthetic hormones, known as anabolic/androgenic steroids. Steroids are generally believed to activate hormone receptors in all tissue types in a non-selective manner resulting in not only beneficial effects but also in unwanted clinical effects. Hair growth, acne and masculinization are also of concern in women who are exposed to exogenous testosterone. The lack of selectivity of testosterone and its conversion to DHT may result in unwanted side effects, such as the potential stimulation of latent into clinical prostate cancer, worsening of BPH, development or worsening of acne, or loss of hair. To date, no orally available testosterone products have been approved for use in the United States. Those testosterone products that are available must be administered by intramuscular injections or by transdermal patches or gels that may not be convenient for patients and, in some cases, can result in inconsistent blood levels of testosterone. 

There are also classes of small molecules that are not steroids that can bind to the same hormone receptors. These nonsteroidal small molecules may either stimulate or block hormone receptors depending on the type of tissue in which the receptor is found and the interaction of the small molecule with the receptor. A drug that has the ability to either block or stimulate the hormone 

receptor in this manner is called a selective hormone receptor modulator. A selective hormone receptor modulator may be able to mimic the beneficial, while minimizing the unwanted, effects of natural or synthetic steroid hormones. 

A SARM is a small molecule that binds to and selectively modulates androgen receptors, the primary receptor to which testosterone binds. SARMs may be utilized in place of androgens for various medical conditions while avoiding the unwanted androgenic effects in the prostate in men or skin and hair in men and women. In previous studies, SARMs have been shown to decrease bone breakdown and increase muscle mass. In addition to the potential beneficial effects in muscle and bone, SARMs may provide a therapeutic option for some women with breast cancer. Although no SARMs have been commercialized to date, we believe that SARMs, without the harmful side effects of testosterone or other exogenous anabolic steroid therapies, can potentially be developed to treat a range of medical conditions, including: 

&#149; androgen receptor positive breast cancer; &#149; muscle loss conditions of chronic diseases, such as cancer, AIDS, chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease, and neurodegenerative disorders; &#149; muscle loss in acute conditions such as trauma, burns, and rehabilitation; &#149; muscle loss conditions associated with aging, such as frailty and chronic sarcopenia; &#149; the prevention and/or treatment of osteoporosis; &#149; disorders of the central nervous system, such as low libido in both men and women; &#149; low testosterone conditions, such as primary and secondary hypogonadism; and &#149; disorders of male reproductive functions, such as infertility and erectile dysfunction. SARDs are a novel class of drugs. The AR is a major driver of prostate tumor cell proliferation, and blocking its activity is a major therapeutic target. Despite the use of therapies designed to inhibit the AR pathway in men with advanced prostate cancer, a significant number of men have tumors that do not respond to such therapeutic approaches and/or become resistant to them. This lack of response may be due to the presence of forms of the AR (splice variants and mutated) for which these therapies are not effective. 

SARDs are designed to not only bind to androgen receptors, but also induce androgen receptor degradation and ultimately inhibit tumor cell growth. Selective AR degradation which targets the N-terminus may be an effective therapeutic strategy where a variant or mutated AR can be degraded by the SARD. This ability to circumvent common drug resistance in prostate cancer patients may provide an important tool for effective new treatments. 

Product Development Programs 

The following table identifies the development phase and status for each of our clinical and preclinical product development programs: 

Product Candidate/ Proposed Indication &#160; Program &#160; Development Phase &#160; Status &#160; Enobosarm &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Treatment of women with advanced AR positive TNBC (18 mg) &#160; SARM &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Commenced enrollment of a Phase 2 open-label proof-of-concept clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in patients with advanced AR positive TNBC. Enobosarm &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Treatment of women with ER positive/AR positive advanced breast cancer (9 mg and 18 mg) &#160; SARM &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Commenced enrollment of a Phase 2 open-label clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in patients whose breast cancer is both ER positive and AR positive. Enobosarm &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Treatment of postmenopausal women with SUI (3 mg) &#160; SARM &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Commenced enrollment of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in postmenopausal women with SUI. SARMs &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Treatment of DMD &#160; SARM &#160; Preclinical &#160; Conducting preclinical research to better understand the potential of SARMs as a treatment for DMD. SARDs &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Treatment of castration resistant prostate cancer &#160; SARD &#160; Preclinical &#160; Selected appropriate drug development candidates for preclinical studies required to support initial first in human clinical trials. 

SARMs 

Enobosarm for the Potential Treatment of Breast Cancer 

The treatment of breast cancer is one of the earliest examples of a targeted approach for cancer therapy. The development of therapeutic agents targeting the ER in breast cancer has served as a model for the development of other targeted therapies in oncology. The treatment for invasive breast cancer is guided, in part, by the characterization of receptor status in the tumor tissue which includes the presence or absence of ER, progesterone receptor, or PR, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, or HER2. Studies investigating the prevalence of receptor status in invasive breast cancer have demonstrated that 75-85% of tumors are ER positive and/or PR positive and 15-20% are HER2 positive. If there is a lack of expression of each of these three receptors, the breast cancer is known as TNBC, which is a more aggressive type of breast cancer with a worse prognosis than the receptor positive cancers. 

Since the majority of breast cancers are receptor positive, historically, advances in the treatment for breast cancer were focused on targeting the ER through hormonal manipulation with selective ER modulators including ER antagonists, which block the proliferative action of estrogen, and aromatase inhibitors, which decrease the synthesis of estrogen in postmenopausal women. Unfortunately, as effective targeted approaches are not available for the treatment of TNBC, treatment is limited to cytotoxic chemotherapy. 

Recent research has focused on identifying new potential therapeutic targets in both hormone receptor positive breast cancers and TNBC for several reasons. In ER positive patients, resistance to endocrine therapies is a clinical and scientific challenge leading researchers to investigate other targets that are linked to the ER function. In TNBC, therapeutic targets need to be identified to potentially improve outcomes for patients with this aggressive form of breast cancer either as first line therapy after chemotherapy or in conjunction with chemotherapy. One such target that has been identified in both ER positive and TNBCs is the AR. In fact, the AR is the most commonly expressed steroid receptor in breast cancer. Up to 90% of ER positive breast cancers and up to 20% of TNBCs express AR. Recent small studies have demonstrated that targeting the AR may be a viable treatment approach for advanced breast cancer. 

To date, enobosarm has been evaluated in 24 completed or ongoing clinical trials, including in six Phase 2 and two Phase 3 clinical trials, enrolling over 1,500 subjects, of which approximately 1,000 subjects were treated with enobosarm. In our Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial in patients with ER positive and AR positive metastatic breast cancer, we enrolled 22 postmenopausal women with ER positive metastatic breast cancer who have previously responded to hormonal therapy to assess clinical benefit at six months of enobosarm 9 mg once daily treatment, which was defined as those patients receiving treatment who have demonstrated (i) a complete response (disappearance of all targeted lesions), (ii) a partial response (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of the targeted lesions), or (iii) stable disease (no disease progression from baseline). The primary endpoint was assessed in 17 AR positive patients, including one patient who had AR status determined outside the protocol specified window. Six of these 17 patients demonstrated clinical benefit at six months as stable disease, including the aforementioned patient, exceeding the pre-defined statistical threshold requiring that at least three of 14 patients with an AR positive metastatic lesion demonstrate clinical benefit. Seven patients in total (one patient with indeterminate AR status) achieved clinical benefit at six months as stable disease. The results also demonstrated that, after a median duration on study of 81 days, 41% of all patients (9/22) achieved clinical benefit as best response and also had increased prostate specific antigen, or PSA, which appears to be an indicator of AR activity. No confirmed complete or partial responses were observed in the study, although one patient with liver metastases had a 27% reduction in a target tumor. Enobosarm was well tolerated. The most common adverse events, or AEs, reported were pain, fatigue, nausea, hot flash/night sweats, and arthralgia. The majority of AEs were Grade 1. There were two serious adverse events, or SAEs, reported during the study. One of the SAEs, bone pain of the chest cage, was assessed as possibly related to enobosarm. 

Based on the positive results from our Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial in patients with ER positive and AR positive metastatic breast cancer, as well as positive data reported in medical literature regarding the use of androgens for the treatment of breast cancer and our preclinical data demonstrating tumor growth inhibition with enobosarm in animal models of disease, we initiated two open-label Phase 2 clinical trials in 2015 designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients with AR positive advanced breast cancer. 

Enobosarm for the Potential Treatment of Women with Advanced AR Positive TNBC 

Scientific Overview. Although the majority of breast cancers are determined to be hormone receptor positive (expressing ER, PR or HER2), up to 20% of women diagnosed with breast cancer will have TNBC which is characterized by a lack of expression of ER, PR or HER2. TNBC occurs more frequently in younger patients (less than 50 years of age) and generally exhibits a more aggressive pattern of progression along with lower survival rates. For those patients with advanced TNBC, standard treatment options are limited to cytotoxic chemotherapy. However, even after an initial response to chemotherapy, the duration of the response may be short and there may be a higher likelihood of visceral metastases, rapidly progressing disease, and inferior survival compared to hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Therefore, there is an emphasis on research focused towards identifying therapeutic targets in TNBC. One such target is the AR. Historically, the AR has been considered to be anti-proliferative and beneficial in hormone receptor positive breast cancers. In TNBC, data from peer-reviewed literature indicates that the presence of the AR and androgen synthesizing enzymes is associated with lower proliferation, lower tumor grade, better overall survival, and more favorable clinical outcomes, as compared to those patients with TNBC not expressing AR. The current literature also suggests that the AR biomarker, PSA, is a favorable prognostic marker in breast cancer. Based on these findings, research is focusing on the AR as a potential therapeutic target. We have studied SARMs in preclinical TNBC cell and animal models. This preclinical data suggests that the growth of TNBC cells expressing AR was inhibited by AR agonists, but not by the AR antagonist bicalutamide, suggesting that using an AR agonist may be a potentially viable approach for the treatment of advanced AR positive TNBC. We believe that this data, coupled with the early clinical success of androgens in breast cancer, supports the clinical evaluation of enobosarm as a potential novel targeted therapy to treat advanced AR positive TNBC. 

Potential Market. Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women with one in eight women developing invasive breast cancer during their lifetime. As of January 1, 2014, it is estimated there were more than 3.1 million women with a history of invasive breast cancer living in the United States. In 2016, an estimated 247,000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in women in the United States with TNBC accounting for up to 20% of these newly diagnosed breast cancers each year and up to 20% of TNBC expressing the AR. To date, treatment of TNBC has been limited to chemotherapy due to the lack of expression of known therapeutic targets on these tumors. Although first line chemotherapy is effective initially for the treatment of TNBC, patients eventually relapse and second line therapies are needed. While this market is smaller than ER positive breast cancer, it is currently underserved and represents an unmet medical need. 

Clinical Trial. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we commenced enrollment in a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial of enobosarm designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients with advanced AR positive TNBC. This open-label, multinational clinical trial, which utilizes a Simon's two-stage clinical trial design, is expected to enroll up to approximately 55 patients to obtain 41 evaluable patients, who will be administered an 18 mg oral daily dose of enobosarm, and clinical benefit will be assessed at 16 weeks of treatment. There will be two stages of evaluation in the clinical trial, with the first stage assessment occurring following 16 weeks of treatment for the first 21 evaluable patients. If at least 2 of the 21 patients achieve clinical benefit, the trial will continue to enroll the second stage of the study. Clinical benefit is defined as a complete response, partial response or stable disease as measured by standardized response evaluation criteria. 

We currently estimate we have sufficient funding through the end of 2016 to allow us to obtain the results from the patients enrolled in the first stage of this clinical trial and the Phase 2 clinical trial in ER positive, AR positive breast cancer, but our ability to enroll patients to the second stage and complete both of these clinical trials will require us to seek sufficient additional funding. 

Enobosarm for the Potential Treatment of Women Whose Breast Cancer is Both ER Positive and AR Positive 

Scientific Overview. Prior to the ability to characterize receptor status and the introduction of targeted therapies directed at the ER, it was known that hormonal manipulation through ovarian ablation, along with alterations of pituitary and adrenal function could lead to tumor responses in some patients with breast cancer. Hormonal manipulation with steroidal androgens was also used with success as a first line treatment prior to the introduction of treatment with tamoxifen and also after disease progression following treatment with tamoxifen. However, androgen treatment had limitations due to the virilizing side effects including body and facial hair growth, acne and deepening of voice. Presently, ER targeted therapies are the mainstay of treatment for hormone receptor positive breast cancer with androgens reserved for use after failure of anti-estrogen therapies. However, the virilizing side effects are still a major limitation for patient compliance and acceptance. Based on the historical success of androgens for the treatment of breast cancer along with our preclinical data demonstrating tumor growth inhibition in ER positive breast cancer, we initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial to evaluate enobosarm in postmenopausal women with ER positive and AR positive metastatic breast cancer in the second quarter of 2013. Based on the positive results from this proof-of-concept clinical trial, our preclinical data demonstrating tumor growth inhibition with enobosarm in animal models of disease, the extensive experience we have with enobosarm in over 1,500 clinical trial patients, and its favorable safety profile, we believe enobosarm has the potential to be an effective treatment alternative for women whose breast cancer is both ER positive and AR positive. 

Potential Market. Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women with one in eight women developing invasive breast cancer during their lifetime. As of January 1, 2014, it is estimated there were more than 3.1 million women with a history of invasive breast cancer living in the United States. In 2016, an estimated 247,000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in women in the United States with approximately 6% to 8% of these women having metastatic disease at time of diagnosis. As studies investigating the prevalence of receptor status in invasive breast cancer have demonstrated that 75-85% of tumors are ER positive, anti-estrogen therapy has been noted to have the greatest global impact than any other treatment intervention in oncology. However, despite the widespread use and success of ER targeted therapies, there is no cure for metastatic breast cancer and eventually approximately 20-30% of women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer will have a recurrence. 

Clinical Trial. During the third quarter of 2015, we commenced enrollment in a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in patients whose metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer is both ER positive and AR positive. This open-label, multinational clinical trial, which is enrolling patients whose cancer treatment has shown prior response to hormonal therapy but has subsequently progressed, will also utilize a Simon's two-stage clinical trial design. The trial is expected to enroll up to approximately 118 patients to obtain 44 evaluable patients in each of two cohorts. One cohort will receive a daily dose of 9 mg of enobosarm and the other cohort a daily dose of 18 mg of enobosarm. There will be two stages of evaluation in the clinical trial, with the first stage assessment occurring following 24 weeks of treatment for the first 18 evaluable patients in each of the two cohorts. If at least 3 of the 18 patients achieve clinical benefit in one or both cohorts, the trial will continue through the second stage for that cohort. Clinical benefit is defined as a complete response, partial response or stable disease as measured by standardized response evaluation criteria. 

We currently estimate we have sufficient funding through the end of 2016 to allow us to obtain the results from the patients enrolled in the first stage of this clinical trial and the Phase 2 clinical trial in AR positive TNBC, but our ability to enroll patients to the second stage and complete both of these clinical trials will require us to seek sufficient additional funding. 

Other SARM Clinical or Preclinical Development Programs 

SARMs for the Potential Treatment of Postmenopausal Women with Stress Urinary Incontinence 

Scientific Overview. SUI is the involuntary leakage of urine during activities such as coughing, laughing, sneezing, exercising or other movements that increase intra-abdominal pressure and thus increase pressure on the bladder. In women, physical changes resulting from pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause often contribute to stress incontinence predominantly through the weakening of the pelvic floor muscles. We view this as a unique opportunity given the enrichment of the pelvic floor muscles with androgen receptors and the demonstrated effects that our SARMs have on building muscle. We have completed a series of preclinical studies to determine the effect of some of our SARMs on pelvic floor muscle mass. These preclinical studies have shown that in ovariectomized mice (a well-accepted model that simulates a postmenopausal condition), there were statistically significant increases in pelvic floor muscle mass, compared to control groups, indicating that SARMs may potentially provide a treatment option for the numerous post-menopausal women suffering from SUI. 

Potential Market. SUI affects up to 35% of adult women. Currently, there are no orally available, effective treatment options for SUI. Treatment is limited to physical therapy to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles, surgery to help augment or support the pelvic floor muscles, bulking agents injected into the urethra of the bladder and implantable devices which aim to minimize the leakage of urine under stress. Other than physical therapy, each of these other treatment modalities is invasive with risks and complications. There is clearly an unmet medical need for new safe and effective therapies in this space. 

Clinical Trial. In the first quarter of 2016, we initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial of enobosarm to treat postmenopausal women with SUI. This is the first clinical trial to evaluate a SARM for the treatment of SUI. The rationale for evaluating enobosarm as a treatment for SUI in the proof-of-concept trial is supported by preclinical in vivo data demonstrating increases in pelvic floor muscle mass in animal models following treatment with our SARM compounds, including enobosarm, as well as safety data from enobosarm clinical trials involving more than 1,000 subjects treated with enobosarm. The trial is a single center, single-arm, open-label proof-of-concept Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the effects of orally administered enobosarm 3 mg in postmenopausal women with SUI. The primary endpoint of the trial is the change in frequency of daily stress urinary incontinence episodes from baseline to week 12. Secondary efficacy endpoints include accepted measurements of voiding, urethral pressure profile and change in pelvic floor muscles as measured by magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI. We anticipate top-line data from this Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in SUI by the end of 2016. 

SARMs for the Potential Treatment of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy 

Scientific Overview. We are currently evaluating several SARM compounds, including enobosarm, in preclinical models of DMD where a SARM's ability to increase muscle mass may prove beneficial to patients suffering from DMD, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by progressive muscle degeneration and weakness. Symptom onset is in early childhood, usually between the ages of three and five, and the disease primarily affects boys. The DMD gene is the largest known gene in the human genome and, as a result, it is susceptible to mutations. These mutations can be inherited from a boy's mother, but approximately one-third of the mutations are spontaneous. The resulting disease is caused by the production of a dysfunctional, or completely non-functional, protein called dystrophin, which helps keep muscle cells intact. Until recently, boys with DMD did not survive much beyond their teen years, but with advances in cardiac and respiratory care, survival into the early thirties is becoming more common. DMD remains an unmet medical need and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has recently issued guidance affirming FDA's interest in finding new treatment options for this 

disease. We believe that a SARM may be a viable therapeutic option for the treatment of DMD, including in combination with therapies that can potentially modify the underlying genetic defect. 

Potential Market. The incidence of all the various manifestations of the disease is approximately 1 in 4,000 male births. Promising research is ongoing in the areas of modifying or correcting the genetic defect in DMD with some encouraging results. Other approaches include anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant therapies, enhancement of utrophin expression and myostatin inhibitors; however, we believe there is still room for continued therapeutic advances. 

Preclinical Development. Based on the extensive SARM data from our preclinical and clinical development efforts, we are undertaking preclinical studies and have initiated discussions with experts to better understand the potential of SARMs as a treatment for DMD. Our preclinical studies have continued to confirm beneficial effects from SARMs in mice genetically altered to simulate DMD, compared to control groups. DMD mice were treated with three different SARM compounds, including enobosarm, and each cohort demonstrated increases in body weight, muscle mass, muscle performance (grip strength) and cardiac function compared to control groups. Our evaluation of SARMs as a potential treatment for DMD is at an early stage, and our ability to meaningfully advance development of SARMs as a potential treatment for DMD is subject to our ability to obtain additional funding. 

Prior Enobosarm 3 mg Development Program 

We announced in August 2013 that the POWER 1 (platinum plus taxane chemotherapy) and POWER 2 (platinum plus non-taxane chemotherapy) (Prevention and treatment Of muscle Wasting in patients with cancER) Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating enobosarm 3 mg daily for the prevention and treatment of muscle wasting in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, failed to meet the statistical criterion for the co-primary endpoints of lean body mass and physical function that were assessed using responder analyses as pre-specified for the FDA. However, efficacy data from the studies demonstrated enobosarm's consistent effect on maintaining or improving lean body mass compared to placebo. 

Enobosarm 3 mg demonstrated a statistically significant effect versus placebo on the primary endpoint of physical function through Day 84 in the POWER 1 clinical trial as assessed by continuous variable analysis, as pre-specified in our statistical analysis plan for the European Medicines Agency, or EMA. Based upon input from representatives of the FDA and from member countries to the EMA, we believe that the data from the POWER trials is not sufficient to support the filing and approval of a new drug application in the United States or a marketing authorization application in the European Union for enobosarm 3 mg for the prevention and treatment of muscle wasting in patients with advanced NSCLC. Our strategy does not include further development of enobosarm 3 mg for this indication in the U.S. or in Europe. 

SARDs for the Potential Treatment of Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer 

Scientific Overview. In March 2015, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with the UTRF to develop SARD compounds that may be capable of degrading multiple forms of AR. We believe SARDs have the potential to treat prostate cancer, as well as other diseases such as benign prostatic hyperplasia and Kennedy's disease. We envision initially developing SARDs as a potentially novel treatment for men with CRPC, including those who do not respond or are resistant to currently approved therapies. Although current therapies have improved overall survival in men with CRPC, approximately one-third of the CRPC patients do not respond to these therapies, due in part to the presence of splice variants, including AR-V7, as well as mutations in the androgen receptor. Splice variants of the androgen receptor have been identified in which the ligand binding domain, the binding 

site for androgens and necessary for the action of many of the current therapies, is lost. In addition, most patients who initially respond to available treatments eventually progress due to the emergence of resistance to these therapies. It is believed that CRPC growth remains highly dependent on androgen receptor activity, although the mechanisms which underlie this resistance are not fully understood. We believe a therapeutic agent that would safely degrade multiple forms of the androgen receptor, including those without the ligand binding domain, would be uniquely positioned to address this patient population. 

Potential Market. In the United States alone, we believe there are approximately 80,000 men who have developed resistance to LHRH therapies and therefore have CRPC but who have not received chemotherapy. We believe there are approximately 36,000 men diagnosed each year with metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer. Zytiga&#174; and XTANDI&#174; are currently the only drugs approved for the treatment of metastatic CRPC in patients who have not yet received chemotherapy, although several other drugs are in clinical development for this indication. We believe new hormonal therapies in development, if approved, will be used prior to chemotherapy as physicians and patients look for treatment options capable of delaying cancer progression and possibly prolonging survival prior to chemotherapy. 

Preclinical Development. Our evaluation of the licensed SARD program is at an early stage. We are currently implementing an appropriate development program for SARDs and are conducting research to select and optimize an appropriate drug development candidate to move into the preclinical studies required to support initial clinical trials. However, to complete preclinical development of our SARD program through the requisite preclinical studies to support initial human clinical trials, we will require additional funding. 

Our Strategy 

Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize small molecules for the treatment of cancer, including treatments for prostate and breast cancer, and other serious medical conditions. Key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives are to: 

Pursue Clinical Development of Enobosarm in Advanced Breast Cancer and SUI. Our current strategy is focused on further development of enobosarm, our lead product candidate, in two breast cancer indications targeting the androgen receptor. During the second half of 2015, we commenced enrollment in two Phase 2 clinical trials of enobosarm. One trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients with advanced AR positive TNBC, and the other trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm in patients with ER positive, AR positive advanced breast cancer. We expect the results from the patients enrolled in the first stage of each clinical trial by the end of 2016. 

Additionally, we are evaluating enobosarm for the treatment of SUI in a Phase 2, proof-of-concept clinical trial, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2016. We anticipate top-line data by the end of 2016. 

Pursue Development of SARMs for DMD. We are also evaluating enobosarm for the potential treatment of DMD. Our evaluation of SARMs for this indication is at an early stage, and our ability to meaningfully advance development of SARMs as a potential treatment for DMD is subject to our ability to obtain additional funding. 

Continue Evaluation of SARD Technology. SARD technology is being evaluated as a potentially novel treatment for men with castration-resistant prostate cancer, including those who do not respond or are resistant to currently approved therapies. We continue to make progress towards identifying potential clinical SARD candidates. However, to complete preclinical development of our SARD 

program through the requisite preclinical studies to support initial human clinical trials, we will require additional funding. 

Pursue Licensing, Partnering or Sale of Certain Assets. We continue to seek additional funding through the licensing, partnering or sale of certain assets to provide us the necessary resources for the development of our preclinical and clinical product candidates. 

Licenses and Collaborative Relationships 

In addition to our internally-developed and discovered small molecules, we have established and intend to continue to pursue licenses from and collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to further the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. While we currently have no ongoing collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, our strategy includes selectively partnering or collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. 

In July 2007, we and the University of Tennessee Research Foundation, or UTRF, entered into a consolidated, amended and restated license agreement, or the SARM License Agreement, to consolidate and replace our two previously existing SARM license agreements with UTRF and to modify and expand certain rights and obligations of each of the parties under both license agreements. Pursuant to the SARM License Agreement, we were granted exclusive worldwide rights in all existing SARM technologies owned or controlled by UTRF, including enobosarm, and certain improvements thereto, and exclusive rights to certain future SARM technology that may be developed by certain scientists at the University of Tennessee or subsequently licensed to UTRF under certain existing inter-institutional agreements with The Ohio State University. Unless terminated earlier, the term of the SARM License Agreement will continue, on a country-by-country basis, for the longer of 20 years or until the expiration of the last valid claim of any licensed patent in the particular country in which a licensed product is being sold. UTRF may terminate the SARM License Agreement for our uncured breach or upon our bankruptcy. 

Under the SARM License Agreement, we paid UTRF a one-time, upfront fee of $290,000 as consideration for entering into the SARM License Agreement. We are also obligated to pay UTRF annual license maintenance fees, low single-digit royalties on net sales of products and mid-single-digit royalties on sublicense revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we paid UTRF a sublicense royalty of approximately $1.9 million as a result of our previous collaboration with Merck &#38; Co., Inc. We also agreed to pay all expenses to file, prosecute and maintain the patents relating to the licensed SARM technologies, and are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize products based on the licensed SARM technologies. In December 2008, we and UTRF amended the SARM License Agreement, or the SARM License Amendment, to, among other things, clarify the treatment of certain payments that we may receive from our current and future sublicensees for purposes of determining sublicense fees payable to UTRF, including the treatment of payments made to us in exchange for the sale of our securities in connection with sublicensing arrangements. In consideration for the execution of the SARM License Amendment, we paid UTRF $494,000. 

We and UTRF also entered into a license agreement, or the SARD License Agreement, in March 2015 pursuant to which we were granted exclusive worldwide rights in all existing SARD technologies owned or controlled by UTRF, including all improvements thereto. Under the SARD License Agreement, we are obligated to employ active, diligent efforts to conduct preclinical research and development activities for the SARD program to advance one or more lead compounds into clinical 

development. We are also obligated to pay UTRF annual license maintenance fees, low single-digit royalties on net sales of products and additional royalties on sublicense revenues, depending on the state of development of a clinical product candidate at the time it is sublicensed. 

Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities, and we rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. 

There are no complicated chemistries or unusual equipment required in the manufacturing process for either enobosarm or SARDs. The active ingredient in enobosarm is manufactured using a five-step synthetic process that uses commercially available starting materials for each step. Enobosarm drug product is manufactured using conventional manufacturing technology without the use of novel excipients. We rely on third-party vendors for drug substance and drug product manufacturing, including drug substance for SARDs used in our preclinical studies. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition from many different sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. 

Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize similar products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop. 

Enobosarm for the Potential Treatment of Women with Advanced AR Positive TNBC 

There are other SARM product candidates in development that may compete with enobosarm and any future SARM product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. We are developing enobosarm for the treatment of women with advanced AR positive TNBC. There are no currently approved therapies for this subset of patients, beyond chemotherapy. However, a number of approaches for the treatment of TNBC are currently under investigation. Agents also targeting the androgen axis include XTANDI&#174; (enzalutamide) being developed by Medivation, Inc. and Astellas Pharma, Inc., orteronel (TAK-700) being developed by Takeda, and CR-1447 being developed by Curadis. Only a subset of the total TNBC population is AR positive; therefore, agents targeting TNBC as a whole may also compete with enobosarm if approved for commercial sale. These agents include: PI3K/AKT inhibitors (BKM120 being developed by Novartis), IL6/JAK/Stat inhibitors (ruxolitinib being developed by Incyte), mTOR inhibitors (Neratinib being developed by Puma), and PARP inhibitors (Velaparib being developed by AbbVie), PD-1 inhibitors (pembrolizumab) being developed by Merck &#38; Co. and MPDL3280A being developed by Roche. 

Enobosarm for the Potential Treatment of Women Whose Breast Cancer is Both ER Positive and AR Positive 

We are also developing enobosarm for the treatment of patients whose breast cancer is both ER positive and AR positive. To our knowledge, no other SARMs are currently in development for the ER positive/AR positive metastatic breast cancer indication; however, SARMs in development for muscle wasting and cachexia could enter into a breast cancer program in the future. For example, Radius Health, Inc. has stated that it may test its SARM compound, RAD140, in a breast cancer indication in the future. A number of other compounds targeting the androgen axis in breast cancer could compete with enobosarm if one or more are approved for commercial sale in the indications for which enobosarm is being developed. These compounds fall into two categories, androgen synthesis inhibitors, or ASIs, and androgen receptor antagonists, or ARAs. ASIs in development include orteronel being developed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals and Zytiga&#174; being developed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals. ARAs in development include XTANDI&#174; (enzalutamide) being developed by Medivation and Astellas Pharma, and generic bicalutamide. Agents targeting pathways outside of the androgen axis also may compete with enobosarm in breast cancer as they are directed towards similar patient populations that may benefit from enobosarm. 

SARMs for the Potential Treatment of Postmenopausal Women with Stress Urinary Incontinence 

We initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial of enobosarm to treat postmenopausal women with SUI. There are a variety of treatments that may be used for SUI in women; however, currently, there are no available oral agents approved for the treatment of SUI. Behavioral modification and pelvic floor physical therapy are common initial treatment approaches. Bulking agents, including carbon coated beads (Durasphere&#174; marketed by Coloplast Corp), calcium hydroxlapatite (Coaptite&#174; marketed by BioForm Medical, Inc.) and silicon (Macroplastique&#174; marketed by Cogentix Medical), can be injected into or around the urethra for treating intrinsic sphincter deficiency, a cause of SUI symptoms. Biologic bulking agents including patient-derived adipose stem cells and autologous muscle-derived stem cells (Cook Myosite) are being developed. Recently, an over-the-counter vaginal pessary (Impressa&#174; marketed Kimberly-Clark) has been approved for the temporary management of urine leakage in women with SUI. Finally, surgical procedures (e.g. sling or bladder neck suspension) have been demonstrated to be effective in some women. 

SARMs for the Potential Treatment of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy 

We are also exploring the potential of SARMs to treat DMD. DMD is a rare genetic disorder which currently has no cure and leads to a progressive weakening of all the muscles in the body. A number of drugs are in various stages of development by pharmaceutical companies to meet the unmet medical need in DMD. These drugs may compete for patient enrollment during the clinical trial phase, should we be able to advance the development of SARMs as a potential treatment of DMD, or commercially should any of them be approved. The most advanced development is by those companies who are targeting the genetic mutation with exon skipping or codon blocking therapies including drisapersen by Biomarin Pharmaceutical Inc., eteplirsen by Sarepta Therapeutics Inc., and PTC 124 by PTC Therapeutics Inc. and DS-1541b, by Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., in a Phase 1/2 in Japan. Santhera Pharmaceuticals has completed a Phase 3 trial with a synthetic analog of coenzyme Q 10 , idebenone. Marathon Pharmaceuticals LLC has completed a Phase 3 trial with a glucocorticoid, deflazacort. Pfizer Inc. is developing its anti-myostatin monoclonal antibody, PF-06252616, and is currently in a Phase 2 trial. In addition, Akashi Therapeutics is developing two compounds for DMD, one of which is a SARM. Tarix Orphan is developing TXA127, an angiotensin 1-7 peptide. Fibrogen is developing FG-3019, a monoclonal antibody which inhibits connective tissue growth factor. 

SARDs for the Potential Treatment of CRPC 

We have entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with UTRF to develop its proprietary SARD technology which has the potential to provide compounds that can degrade multiple forms of AR for patients who do not respond or are resistant to current therapies to inhibit tumor growth in patients with progressive CRPC. We anticipate evaluating SARDs as a potentially novel treatment for men with CRPC, including those who do not respond or are resistant to currently approved therapies. Drugs in commercial development having potentially similar approaches to removing the AR by degradation include Arvinas Inc.'s ARV-330, a chimera with an AR binding moiety on one end and an E3 ligase recruiting element on the other, in preclinical development for application to treat advanced prostate cancer and Androscience Corporation's androgen receptor degrader enhancer, or ARD, currently in development for acne and alopecia with the potential for development as a treatment for prostate cancer. Additionally, it has been reported that two other companies are developing drugs to treat men with CRPC who are resistant to current therapies: Tokai Pharmaceuticals is developing TOK-001 (Galeterone) with a principal mechanism of action as a CYP17 lyase inhibitor and AR antagonist and Essa Pharma Inc. is beginning early studies with EPI-506, an AR antagonist that targets the N-terminal domain of the AR. C4 Therapeutics, Inc. is developing degronimids as means to degrade the AR through ligand binding domain associated degradation. CellCentric is developing therapies that target the histone methyltransferase enzyme to lower AR levels and Oric Pharmaceuticals is targeting the glucocorticoid receptor as a means to impact men that have CRPC. In addition to this specific potential mechanistic competition, there are various products approved or under clinical development in the broader space of treating men with advanced prostate cancer who have metastatic CRPC which may compete with our proposed initial clinical objective for our SARD compounds. Provenge&#174;, which was recently acquired by Valeant Pharmaceuticals, is an autologous cellular immunotherapy for the treatment of asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer. Medivation and Astellas Pharma market XTANDI&#174; (enzalutamide), an oral androgen receptor antagonist, for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in men previously treated with docetaxel as well as those that have not yet received chemotherapy. Zytiga&#174;, sold by Johnson &#38; Johnson, has been approved for the treatment of metastatic CRPC in patients who have received prior chemotherapy and recently received approval for the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer prior to chemotherapy. Johnson &#38; Johnson acquired Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which developed a second generation anti-androgen (ARN-509) that is currently being evaluated in Phase 2 studies in men with progressive, advanced prostate cancer. Bayer HealthCare and Orion Corporation are currently performing a Phase 3 study of ODM-201 in men with CRPC without metastases and with a rising PSA examining safety and efficacy by measuring metastatic free survival. Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company is developing TAK-700 for the treatment of men with metastatic CRPC prior to chemotherapy. 

Intellectual Property 

We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent it is covered by valid and enforceable patents or is effectively maintained as trade secrets. Patents and other proprietary rights are an essential element of our business. 

For enobosarm and our other SARM compounds, we have an exclusive license from UTRF under its issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, China and other countries in Asia, before the European Patent Office designating Germany, Great Britain, Spain, France, Italy, and other European Union countries, as well as in certain other countries outside those regions, covering the composition of matter of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical compositions and methods of synthesizing the active pharmaceutical ingredients. We have also exclusively licensed from UTRF issued and pending patent 

applications in the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, China and other countries in Asia, before the European Patent Office designating Germany, Great Britain, Spain, France, Italy and other European Union countries, as well as in certain other countries outside those regions, related to methods for treating muscle wasting disorders, including DMD, SUI and cancer cachexia, and for treating sarcopenia and increasing muscle performance, muscle size and muscle strength and increasing the strength of or mass of a bone and for treating bone related disorders, including bone frailty and osteoporosis. The patents for enobosarm we licensed from UTRF and issued in the United States expire in 2024. Issued patents for our other SARM compounds in the United States will expire between 2021 and 2029, depending on the specific SARM compound. The patents we licensed from UTRF and issued outside of the United States for enobosarm expire in 2025, and with respect to other SARM compounds, expire in 2023 and 2027, depending on the specific SARM compound. We have pending patent applications for enobosarm and our other SARM compounds that, if issued, would expire in the United States and in countries outside the United States in 2025 and 2027, depending on the specific SARM compound. We have pending patent applications for SARMs in combination with anti-cancer agents that, if issued, would expire in the United States in 2024 and in countries outside the United States in 2028. We have issued patents in the United States and pending applications in countries outside the United States for enobosarm and certain other SARM compounds as a feed composition for animals. The patents in the United States will expire in 2025. The patent applications which are pending outside the United States will expire in 2031, if the patents are issued. Patent applications which are pending in the United States and outside the United States using SARMs for urinary incontinence and pelvic floor disorders will expire in 2035, if the patents are issued. Patent applications which are pending in the United States using enobosarm for DMD will expire in 2024, if the patents are issued. Issued patents and patent applications in the United States using other SARMs for DMD will expire in 2027. We have pending patent applications for enobosarm and our other SARM compounds that, if issued, would expire in the United States and in countries outside the United States in 2025 and 2017, depending on the specific SARM compound. 

We have our own pending patent applications in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, Japan, China and other countries in Asia, as well as in certain other countries outside those regions, related to solid forms of enobosarm. Issued patents covering solid forms of enobosarm in the United States will expire in 2029. Patents issued from pending patent applications in countries outside of the United States will expire in 2028. We have our own pending patent applications in the United States and as an International Application related to methods of treating breast cancer using our SARM compounds. Such patent applications, if issued, would expire in 2033 in the United States and outside of the United States. 

For our SARD compounds and methods of use thereof, we have filed certain patent applications and are the exclusive licensee of the SARD technology under a license agreement with UTRF executed in 2015. The patent applications will expire in 2036, if the patents are issued. 

We cannot be certain that any of our pending patent applications, or those of our licensors, will result in issued patents. In addition, because the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, the patents we own and license, or any further patents we may own or license, may not prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products. Patents also will not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making or using these product candidates without legally infringing our patents. In recent years, several companies have been extremely aggressive in challenging patents covering pharmaceutical products, and the challenges have often been successful. We cannot be assured that our patents will not be challenged by third parties or that we will be successful in any defense we undertake. Failure to successfully defend a patent challenge could materially and adversely affect our business. 

In addition, changes in patent laws, rules or regulations or in their interpretations in the United States and other countries by the courts may materially diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 

We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information by requiring our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to execute non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements and our employees to execute assignment of invention agreements to us on commencement of their employment. Agreements with our employees also prevent them from bringing any proprietary rights of third parties to us. We also require confidentiality or material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential data or materials. 

Government Regulation 

New Drug Development and Approval Process 

Numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the testing, clinical development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products and ongoing research and development activities. In the United States, the FDA rigorously reviews pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and applicable regulations. Non-compliance with FDA regulations can result in administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters, clinical holds, fines, recall or seizure of products, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to approve marketing applications or allow entry into supply contracts, refusal to permit import or export of products, civil penalties, criminal prosecution and other actions affecting a company and its products. The FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted marketing authorizations. 

To secure FDA approval, an applicant must submit extensive preclinical and clinical data, as well as information about product manufacturing processes and facilities and other supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish a product candidate's safety and efficacy. The development and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and may be subject to delays or limitations of approval or rejection of an applicant's new drug application, or NDA. Even if the FDA approves a product, the approval is subject to post-marketing surveillance, adverse drug experience and other recordkeeping and reporting obligations, and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The FDA also has authority to place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications, advertising, promotion or distribution of these products. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. 

Preclinical and Clinical Testing 

Preclinical studies involve laboratory evaluation of product characteristics and animal studies to assess the biological activity and safety of the product. In some cases, long-term preclinical studies are conducted while clinical studies are ongoing. The FDA, under its Good Laboratory Practices regulations, regulates preclinical studies. Violations of these regulations can, in some cases, lead to invalidation of the studies, requiring these studies to be replicated. When the preclinical testing is considered adequate by the sponsor to demonstrate the safety and scientific rationale for initial human studies, the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug application, or IND. The IND becomes effective, if not rejected by the FDA, within 30 days after the FDA receives the IND. The FDA may, either during the 30-day period after filing of an IND or at any future time, impose a 

clinical hold on proposed or ongoing clinical trials on various grounds, including that the study subjects are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant health risk. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, clinical trials cannot commence or recommence without FDA authorization and then only under terms authorized by the FDA. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product candidates to humans under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices under protocols submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, each clinical trial must be approved and conducted under the auspices of an Investigational Review Board, or IRB, and with patient informed consent. The IRB typically considers, among other things, ethical factors and the safety of human subjects. 

Clinical trials are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 clinical trials usually involve healthy human subjects. The goal of a Phase I clinical trial is to establish initial data about the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic properties of the product candidates in humans. In Phase 2 clinical trials, controlled studies are conducted on an expanded population of patients with the targeted disease. The primary purpose of these tests is to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug candidate on the patients to determine if there are any side effects or other risks associated with the drug and to determine the optimal dose of the drug from the safety and efficacy profile developed from the clinical study. Phase 3 trials involve even larger patient populations, often with several hundred or even several thousand patients, depending on the use for which the drug is being studied. Phase 3 trials are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug and provide, if appropriate, an adequate basis for product labeling. During all clinical trials, physicians monitor the patients to determine effectiveness and to observe and report any reactions or other safety risks that may result from use of the drug candidate. 

Product Formulation and Manufacture 

Concurrent with clinical trials and preclinical studies, companies must develop information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product. In addition, manufacturers, including contract manufacturers, are required to comply with current applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. The current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product and the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final drugs. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and chemistry stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life. 

Compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations also is a condition of new drug application approval. The FDA must approve manufacturing facilities before they can be used in the commercial manufacture of drug products. In addition, manufacturing establishments are subject to pre-approval inspections and unannounced periodic inspections. 

New Drug Application Process 

After the completion of the clinical trial phases of development, if the sponsor concludes that there is substantial evidence that the drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use, the sponsor may submit a NDA to the FDA. The application must contain all of the information on the drug candidate gathered to that date, including data from the clinical trials, and be accompanied by a user fee. 

Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, submission of a NDA with clinical data requires payment of a fee, with some exceptions. In return, the FDA assigns a goal of six or ten months from filing of the application to return of a first "complete response," in which the FDA may approve the product or request additional information. There can be no assurance that an application will be approved within the performance goal timeframe established under PDUFA. The FDA initially determines whether a NDA as submitted is acceptable for filing. The FDA may refuse to file an application, in which case the FDA retains one-half of the user fees. If the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the application. As part of this review, the FDA may refer the application to an appropriate advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians, for review, evaluation and a recommendation. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. 

If the FDA evaluations of the NDA and the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter authorizing commercial marketing of the drug candidate for specified indications. The FDA could also issue a "complete response" letter at the end of the review period. A "complete response" letter will be issued to let a company know that the review period for a drug is complete and that the application is not yet ready for approval. The letter will describe specific deficiencies and, when possible, will outline recommended actions the applicant might take to get the application ready for approval. 

Marketing Approval and Post-Marketing Obligations 

If the FDA approves an application, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe. Periodic reports must be submitted to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may require post-marketing studies, also known as Phase IV studies, as a condition of approval. In addition to studies required by the FDA after approval, trials and studies are often conducted to explore new indications for the drug. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to develop data to support additional indications for the drug, which must be approved by the FDA, and to increase its acceptance in the medical community. In addition, some post-marketing studies are done at the request of the FDA to develop additional information regarding the safety of a product. 

The FDA may impose risk evaluation mitigation strategies, or REMS, on a product if the FDA believes there is a reason to monitor the safety of the drug in the marketplace. REMS could add training requirements for healthcare professionals, safety communications efforts, and limits on channels of distribution, among other things. The sponsor would be required to evaluate and monitor the various REMS activities and adjust them if need be. Whether a REMS would be imposed on a product and any resulting financial impact is uncertain at this time. 

Any products manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the drug, drug sampling and distribution requirements, notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of certain manufacturing or labeling changes, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements, and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements. Also, newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product's approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, or even in some instances revocation or withdrawal of the product's approval. 

Approval Outside of the United States 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products, which broadly reflect the issues addressed by the FDA above. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in other countries. 

As in the United States, the marketing approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy, challenging and inherently uncertain process. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Generally the development and approval procedures are harmonized throughout the European Union: however, there is limited harmonization in relation to national pricing and reimbursement practices. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may not market a medicinal product without marketing authorization. There are three procedures for submitting a MAA in the EU: (1) the mutual recognition procedure (MRP); (2) the decentralized procedure (DCP) and (3) the centralized procedure (CP). The submission strategy for a given product will depend on the nature of the product, the target indication(s), the history of the product, and the marketing plan. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products which are produced by biotechnology processes, advanced therapy medicinal products and orphan drugs. Besides the products falling under the mandatory scope, the centralized procedure is also open for other innovative products that are new active substances or other medicinal products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation. 

The centralized procedure leads to approval of the product in all 27 EU member states and in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. Submission of one MAA thus leads to one assessment process and one authorization that allows access to all applicable markets within the entire EU. The process of the centralized procedure is triggered when the applicant sends the letter announcing the intent to submit a MAA (letter of intent). The letter of intent also initiates the assignment of the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur, who are the two appointed members of the Committee for Human Medicinal Products, or CHMP, representing two EU member states. 

When using the MRP or DCP, the applicant must select which and how many EU member states in which to seek approval. In the case of an MRP, the applicant must initially receive national approval in one EU member state. This will be the so-called reference member state (RMS) for the MRP. Then, the applicant seeks approval for the product in other EU member states, the so-called concerned member states (CMS) in a second step: the mutual recognition process. For the DCP, the applicant will approach all chosen member states at the same time. To do so, the applicant will identify the RMS that will assess the submitted MAA and provide the other selected member states with the conclusions and results of the assessment. 

When the application for marketing authorization is made, the competent authority responsible for granting a marketing authorization must verify whether the application complies with the relevant requirements, including compliance with the agreed pediatric investigational plan, or PIP. Assuming it does, the marketing authorization may be granted and the relevant results are included in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for the product, along with a statement indicating compliance with 

the agreed PIP. It is not necessary for the product actually to be indicated for use in the pediatric population (for example, if the results show that that would not be appropriate). 

Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 

Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, a portion of a product's patent term that was lost during clinical development and application review by the FDA may be restored. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for a statutory protection, known as exclusivity, against the FDA's acceptance or approval of certain competitor applications. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides the legal basis for the approval of abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs. 

Patent term extension can compensate for time lost during product development and the regulatory review process by returning up to five years of patent life for a patent that covers a new product or its use. This period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of a NDA, plus the time between the submission date of a NDA and the approval of that application. Patent term extensions, however, are subject to a maximum extension of five years, and the patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years. The application for patent term extension is subject to approval by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in conjunction with the FDA. It generally takes at least six months to obtain approval of the application for patent term extension. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for a period of statutory protection for new drugs that receive NDA approval from the FDA. If a new drug receives NDA approval as a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active entity, then the Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits an ANDA or a NDA submitted pursuant to section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act, where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all of the data required for approval to be submitted by another company for a generic version of such drug (505(b)(2) NDA), with some exceptions, for a period of five years from the date of approval of the NDA. The statutory protection provided pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act will not prevent the filing or approval of a full NDA, as opposed to an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA, for any drug, including, for example, a drug with the same active ingredient, dosage form, route of administration, strength and conditions of use. In order to obtain a NDA, however, a competitor would be required to conduct its own clinical trials, and any use of the drug for which marketing approval is sought could not violate another NDA holder's patent claims. 

If NDA approval is received for a new drug containing an active ingredient that was previously approved by the FDA but the NDA is for a drug that includes an innovation over the previously approved drug, for example, a NDA approval for a new indication or formulation of the drug with the same active ingredient, and if such NDA approval was dependent upon the submission to the FDA of new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, then the Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits the FDA from making effective the approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA for a generic version of such drug for a period of three years from the date of the NDA approval. This three year exclusivity, however, only covers the innovation associated with the NDA to which it attaches. Thus, the three year exclusivity does not prohibit the FDA, with limited exceptions, from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs for drugs containing the same active ingredient but without the new innovation. 

While the Hatch-Waxman Act provides certain patent restoration and exclusivity protections to innovator drug manufacturers, it also permits the FDA to approve ANDAs for generic versions of their drugs assuming the approval would not violate another NDA holder's patent claims. The ANDA process permits competitor companies to obtain marketing approval for a drug with the same active 

ingredient for the same uses but does not require the conduct and submission of clinical studies demonstrating safety and effectiveness for that product. Instead of safety and effectiveness data, an ANDA applicant needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product is bioequivalent to the innovator product as well as relevant chemistry, manufacturing and product data. The Hatch-Waxman Act also instituted a third type of drug application that requires the same information as a NDA, including full reports of clinical and preclinical studies, except that some of the information from the reports required for marketing approval comes from studies which the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference. This type of application, a 505(b)(2) NDA, permits a manufacturer to obtain marketing approval for a drug without needing to conduct or obtain a right of reference for all of the required studies. 

If a competitor submits an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA for a compound or use of any compound covered by another NDA holder's patent claims, the Hatch-Waxman Act requires, in some circumstances, the applicant to notify the patent owner and the holder of the approved NDA of the factual and legal basis of the applicant's opinion that the patent is not valid or will not be infringed. Upon receipt of this notice, the patent owner and the NDA holder have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court and obtain a 30-month stay against the company seeking to reference the NDA. The NDA holder could still file a patent suit after the 45 days, but if they miss the 45-day deadline, they would not have the benefit of the 30-month stay. Alternatively, after this 45-day period, the applicant may file a declaratory judgment action, seeking a determination that the patent is invalid or will not be infringed. Depending on the circumstances, however, the applicant may not be able to demonstrate a controversy sufficient to confer jurisdiction on the court. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides a 30-month stay on the approval of the competitor's ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA. If the litigation is resolved in favor of the competitor or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month period, unless otherwise extended by court order, the stay is lifted and the FDA may approve the application. Under regulations issued by the FDA, and essentially codified under the Medicare prescription drug legislation, the patent owner and the NDA holder have the opportunity to trigger only a single 30-month stay per ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA. Once the applicant of the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA has notified the patent owner and the NDA holder of the infringement, the applicant cannot be subjected to another 30-month stay, even if the applicant becomes aware of additional patents that may be infringed by its product. 

Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement 

We currently have no marketed products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government authorities or programs, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Our product candidates may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

Within the United States, if we obtain appropriate approval in the future to market any of our oral drug product candidates, those products could potentially be covered by various government health benefit programs as well as purchased by government agencies. The participation in such programs or the sale of products to such agencies is subject to regulation. The marketability of any products for 

which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. 

Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, manufacturers are required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by the state Medicaid programs. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law and may be subject to an additional discount if certain pricing increases more than inflation. 

Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well as those with certain disabilities. Oral drugs may be covered under Medicare Part D. Medicare Part D provides coverage to enrolled Medicare patients for self-administered drugs ( i.e ., drugs that do not need to be injected or otherwise administered by a physician). Medicare Part D is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the U.S. government and each drug plan establishes its own Medicare Part D formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time-to-time. The prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. Since 2011, manufacturers with marketed brand name drugs have been required to provide a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by Medicare Part D beneficiaries when those beneficiaries reach the coverage gap in their drug benefits. 

Drug products are subject to discounted pricing when purchased by federal agencies via the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS). FSS participation is required for a drug product to be covered and reimbursed by certain federal agencies and for coverage under Medicaid, Medicare Part B and the Public Health Service (PHS) pharmaceutical pricing program. FSS pricing is negotiated periodically with the Department of Veterans Affairs. FSS pricing is intended not to exceed the price that a manufacturer charges its most-favored non-federal customer for its product. In addition, prices for drugs purchased by the Veterans Administration, Department of Defense (including drugs purchased by military personnel and dependents through the TRICARE retail pharmacy program), Coast Guard, and PHS are subject to a cap on pricing (known as the "federal ceiling price") and may be subject to an additional discount if pricing increases more than the rate of inflation. 

To maintain coverage of drugs under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, manufacturers are required to extend discounts to certain purchasers under the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program. Purchasers eligible for discounts include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS. 

The United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which includes changes to the coverage and reimbursement of drug products under government health care programs. Adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. 

Although we currently have no products approved for commercial sale, we marketed FARESTON&#174; through September 30, 2012 and the product was covered under various government health benefit programs as well as purchased by federal agencies. We could be subject to liability under federal laws regulating our participation in such programs or the sale of our product to such agencies if we failed to comply with applicable requirements, including reporting prices for our products or offering products for sale at certain prices. 

Regulations Pertaining to Sales and Marketing 

Although we currently have no products approved for commercial sale, we may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care "fraud and abuse," including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws for activities related to our previous sales of FARESTON&#174;, which we sold to a third party in 2012, or to future sales of any of our product candidates that may in the future receive regulatory and marketing approval. Anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a prescription drug manufacturer from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad and there may not be regulations, guidance or court decisions that apply the laws to particular industry practices. There is therefore a possibility that our practices might be challenged under such anti-kickback laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for reimbursed drugs or services to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) that are false or fraudulent. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and/or exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). 

Laws and regulations have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers with marketed products. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers and/or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our prior reporting (when we marketed FARESTON&#174;) or any future reporting (if we obtain approval and/or reimbursement from federal healthcare programs for our product candidates) could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent laws and regulations. 

Research and Development 

Since our inception in 1997, we have been focused on drug discovery and development programs. Research and development expenses include, but are not limited to, our expenses for personnel associated with our research activities, screening and identification of product candidates, formulation and synthesis activities, manufacturing, preclinical studies, toxicology studies, clinical trials, regulatory and medical affairs activities, quality assurance activities and license fees. Our research and development expenses were $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, $20.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and $32.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 29 employees, 8 of whom were M.D.s, Pharm.D.s and/or Ph.D.s. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. 

Available Information 

We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make available on our Web site at www.gtxinc.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as 

soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further, copies of these reports are located at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. The information provided on our Web site is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. 

Management 

The following table sets forth information about our executive officers and other key clinical and regulatory officers as of March 9, 2016. 

Name &#160; Age &#160; Position(s) Executive Officers &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Marc S. Hanover &#160; 53 &#160; Chief Executive Officer Robert J. Wills, Ph.D &#160; 62 &#160; Executive Chairman Henry P. Doggrell &#160; 67 &#160; Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Diane C. Young, M.D &#160; 59 &#160; Vice President, Chief Medical Officer Jason T. Shackelford &#160; 40 &#160; Senior Director, Accounting and Corporate Controller, and Principal Financial and Accounting Officer Other Key Clinical and Regulatory Officers Jeffrey G. Hesselberg &#160; 57 &#160; Vice President, Regulatory Affairs Mary Ann Johnston, PharmD &#160; 44 &#160; Vice President, Clinical Development 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

&#160; Marc S. Hanover , a co-founder of GTx and our Chief Executive Officer, served as our President and Chief Operating Officer from our inception in September 1997 until his appointment as our permanent Chief Executive Officer in February 2015, and served as our acting Principal Financial Officer from December 31, 2013 until his appointment as our interim Chief Executive Officer on April 3, 2014. Mr. Hanover also previously served as a member of our Board of Directors from our inception until August 2011, and was again elected to our Board of Directors on April 3, 2014. Prior to joining GTx, Mr. Hanover was a founder of Equity Partners International, Inc., a private equity firm in Memphis, Tennessee, and participated as a founder and investor in three healthcare companies. From 1985 to 1997, Mr. Hanover was a Senior Vice President and a member of the Executive Management Committee of National Bank of Commerce in Memphis, Tennessee. Mr. Hanover holds a B.S. in Biology from the University of Memphis and a MBA in Finance from the University of Memphis. 

&#160; Robert J. Wills, Ph.D. , joined GTx as Executive Chairman and as a member of our Board of Directors on March 2, 2015. Dr. Wills served as Vice President, Alliance Manager for Johnson &#38; Johnson, or J&#38;J, and was responsible for managing strategic alliances for J&#38;J's Pharmaceutical Group worldwide since 2002. Prior to this, Dr. Wills spent 22 years in pharmaceutical drug development, 12 of which were at J&#38;J and 10 of which were at Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Before assuming his alliance management role at J&#38;J, Dr. Wills served as Senior Vice President Global Development at J&#38;J where he was responsible for its late stage development pipeline and was a member of several internal commercial and research and development operating boards. Dr. Wills holds a B.S. in Biochemistry and 

a M.S. in Pharmaceutics from the University of Wisconsin and a Ph.D. in Pharmaceutics from the University of Texas. 

&#160; Henry P. Doggrell currently serves as our Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary, after joining GTx in October 2001 as General Counsel and Secretary. From April 1998 to August 2001, Mr. Doggrell was Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs at Buckeye Technologies, Inc., a specialty cellulose company, where he was responsible for matters including corporate finance, investor relations, mergers and acquisitions, intellectual property and licensing and strategic development. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Doggrell served as General Counsel and Secretary of Buckeye Technologies. Prior to joining Buckeye Technologies, Mr. Doggrell was a partner of the Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell and Berkowitz law firm from 1988 to 1996, where he served as a member of the law firm management committee and Chair of the firm's Corporate Securities department. Mr. Doggrell holds a B.S. in Commerce from the University of Virginia and a JD from Vanderbilt University. 

&#160; Diane C. Young, M.D. was appointed Vice President and Chief Medical Officer at GTx in July 2015. Dr. Young is a board-certified medical oncologist with 25 years of industry experience in clinical development and medical affairs, most recently with Novartis where she spent 12 years in global and regional leadership roles in oncology drug development. Prior to Novartis, Dr. Young spent 10 years with Johnson &#38; Johnson, where she served as Vice President, Global Development at R. W. Johnson Pharmaceutical Research Institute (now Johnson &#38; Johnson Research and Development). At Novartis, Dr. Young held senior leadership positions involved in the development, regulatory approval and medical affairs activities for several products, including Glivec&#174;, Zometa&#174;, Femara&#174;, Sandostatin&#174;, Tasigna&#174;, Jakavi&#174; and Afinitor&#174;, all of which are treatments or supportive therapies for cancer patients. 

&#160; Jason T. Shackelford currently serves as our Senior Director, Accounting and Corporate Controller, after joining GTx in July 2007 as Director, Accounting and Corporate Controller, and has served as our principal accounting officer since December 31, 2013 and as our principal financial and accounting officer since April 3, 2014. Prior to joining GTx, Mr. Shackelford was a Senior Audit Manager at KPMG LLP. Mr. Shackelford is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor of Business Administration and Master of Accountancy from the University of Mississippi. 

Other Key Clinical and Regulatory Officers of the Registrant 

&#160; Jeffrey G. Hesselberg has served as the Vice President, Regulatory Affairs since May 2007. He joined GTx from ICOS Corporation, where from 1996 to May 2007 he served as Manager, Associate Director, and then Director of Regulatory Affairs. Most recently, Mr. Hesselberg worked on the successful development, launch and commercialization of Cialis&#174; (tadalafil) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. From 1984 to 1996, Mr. Hesselberg worked for Immunex Corporation and the Puget Sound Blood Center. Mr. Hesselberg holds a B.S. in Molecular Biology from the University of Wisconsin &#151; Madison and a MBA from the University of Washington. 

&#160; Mary Ann Johnston, PharmD, was appointed Vice President, Medical Affairs in November 2012 and currently serves as Vice President, Clinical Development. Before that, she served as Director, Medical Affairs and Team Leader, Medical Science Liaisons, heading up the field-based medical organization since 2009. Prior to joining GTx, Dr. Johnston was Director, Medical Science Liaisons and Managed Markets at Actelion Pharmaceuticals specializing in pulmonary arterial hypertension. Before joining the pharmaceutical industry, Dr. Johnston practiced as a clinical specialist at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston where she served as an adjunct professor for the University of Houston and University of Texas schools of pharmacy with a clinical practice focused in cardiology and critical care. Dr. Johnston holds a Doctor of Pharmacy degree from Samford University McWhorter School of Pharmacy and completed a postdoctoral residency at the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 

