 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

BioScrip, Inc. (&#8220;BioScrip&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a national provider of infusion solutions. We partner with physicians, hospital systems, skilled nursing facilities, healthcare payors and pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide patients access to post-acute care services. We operate with a commitment to bring customer-focused pharmacy and related healthcare infusion therapy services into the home or alternate-site setting. By collaborating with the full spectrum of healthcare professionals and the patient, we aim to provide cost-effective care that is driven by clinical excellence, customer service and values that promote positive outcomes and an enhanced quality of life for those whom we serve. 

Our platform provides nationwide service capabilities and the ability to deliver clinical management services that offer patients a high-touch, community-based and home-based care environment. Our core services are provided in coordination with, and under the direction of, the patient&#8217;s physician. Our multidisciplinary team of clinicians, including pharmacists, nurses, dietitians and respiratory therapists, work with the physician to develop a plan of care suited to our patient&#8217;s specific needs. Whether in the home, physician office, ambulatory infusion center, skilled nursing facility or other alternate sites of care, we provide products, services and condition-specific clinical management programs tailored to improve the care of individuals with complex health conditions such as gastrointestinal abnormalities, infectious diseases, cancer, multiple sclerosis, organ and blood cell transplants, bleeding disorders, immune deficiencies and heart failure. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1996 as MIM Corporation, with our primary business and operations consisting of pharmacy benefit management services at the time. 

Strategic Assessment and Transactions 

In 2010, we commenced a strategic assessment of our business and operations. The assessment examined our market strengths and opportunities and compared our position to that of our competitors. As a result of this assessment and subsequent assessments, we have focused our growth on investments in the Infusion Services business, which remains the primary driver of our growth strategy. Subsequent transactions which executed the strategic plans were: 

&#8226; 

On February 1, 2012, we entered into a Community Pharmacy and Mail Business Purchase Agreement by and among Walgreen Co. and certain subsidiaries with respect to the sale of certain assets, rights and properties relating to our traditional and specialty pharmacy mail operations and community retail pharmacy stores (the &#8220;Pharmacy Services Asset Sale&#8221;). 

&#8226; 

On July 31, 2012, we acquired 100% of the ownership interest in InfuScience, Inc. (&#8220;InfuScience&#8221;). InfuScience historically acquired, developed and operated businesses providing alternate site infusion pharmacy services through five infusion centers located in Eagan, Minnesota; Omaha, Nebraska; Chantilly, Virginia; Charleston, South Carolina; and Savannah, Georgia. 

&#8226; 

On February 1, 2013, we acquired 100% of the ownership interest in HomeChoice Partners, Inc. (&#8220;HomeChoice&#8221;). Prior to our acquisition, HomeChoice serviced approximately 15,000 patients annually and had 14 infusion pharmacy locations in Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Missouri, and Alabama. 

&#8226; 

On August 23, 2013, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities that constituted the home infusion business of CarePoint Partners Holdings LLC (the &#8220;CarePoint Business&#8221;). CarePoint serviced approximately 20,500 patients annually and had 28 sites of service in nine states in the East Coast and Gulf Coast regions prior to our acquisition. 

&#8226; 

On March 31, 2014, we completed the sale of substantially all of our Home Health Services segment (the &#8220;Home Health Business&#8221;) to LHC Group, Inc. 

&#32;4 

&#8226; 

On August 27, 2015, we completed the sale of substantially all of our pharmacy benefit management services segment (the &#8220;PBM Business&#8221;) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of August 9, 2015 (the &#8220;PBM Asset Purchase Agreement&#8221;), by and among the Company, BioScrip PBM Services, LLC and ProCare Pharmacy Benefit Manager Inc. (the &#8220;PBM Buyer&#8221;). 

Financial Improvement Plan 

On August 10, 2015, we announced a plan to implement a new operations financial improvement plan (the &#8220;Financial Improvement Plan&#8221;) as part of an initiative to accelerate long-term growth, reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. In connection with the Financial Improvement Plan, we consolidated most corporate functions from our Eden Prairie, Minnesota corporate office and our Elmsford, New York executive office into our new executive and corporate office located in Denver, Colorado. The Financial Improvement Plan was substantially completed by the end of 2015. Since inception, we have incurred approximately $14.3 million &#32;in total expenses for the Financial Improvement Plan, consisting of $7.8 million &#32;of employee severance and other benefit-related costs related to workforce reductions and $6.5 million &#32;of other consulting and professional fees in the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Business Outlook 

As a result of the strategic reassessment and subsequent realignment discussed above, we have focused on expanding revenue opportunities and reducing corporate overhead as well as redeploying our resources strategically. These actions have resulted in employee severance, retention bonus payments, write-downs of certain long-lived assets and accelerated recognition of expense associated with certain of our contractual obligations. The impact of these efforts included a reduction in salaries, benefits, rent and other facility costs. The redeployment of resources following the strategic transactions has better positioned us for growth in our strategic areas of operation; however, the impact of these actions on our future consolidated financial statements cannot be estimated. 

Our Strengths 

&#160; 

Our company has a number of competitive strengths, including: 

We Have a Local Competitive Market Position within Our National Platform and Infrastructure 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a total of 70 &#32;service locations in 28 states. Our model combines local presence with comprehensive clinical programs for multiple therapies and specific delivery technologies (infusible and injectable). We also have the capabilities and payor relationships to dispense prescriptions to all 50 states. We have relationships with approximately 1,000 payors, including Managed Care Organizations (&#8220;MCOs&#8221;), government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and other commercial insurers (&#8220;Third Party Payors&#8221;). We believe payors generally favor fully integrated vendors that can provide high-touch pharmacy solutions to their patients. We believe we are one of a limited number of pharmacy providers that can offer a truly national, integrated and comprehensive approach to managing a patient&#8217;s chronic or acute conditions. 

&#160; 

Diversified and Favorable Payor Base 

We provide prescription drugs, infusion and clinical management services for a broad range of commercial and governmental payors. Approximately 77% &#32;of our payor base is comprised of commercial payors that operate at a national, regional or local level. One national commercial payor, UnitedHealthcare, accounted for 24% &#32;of consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015 . No other commercial payor accounted for more than 5% &#32;of consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015 . Government payors, including Medicare, state Medicaid and other government payors, accounted for 23% &#32;of consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015 . For the year ended December 31, 2015 , Medicare accounted for 10% &#32;of our consolidated revenue, and we have one state Medicaid program accounting for more than 5% &#32;of consolidated revenue. 

The costs savings realized by administering infusion therapies in the home versus hospitals, skilled nursing facilities or other post-acute care facilities positions our business to benefit from healthcare reform. Under the current plan, Medicare offers limited reimbursement for home infusion therapy products and services. As healthcare reform continues to focus on cost-reduction initiatives, home infusion and other low-cost in-home therapeutic alternatives are expected to be impacted favorably by revised coverage. Significant health plan cost savings per infusion can be achieved when therapy is provided at an alternative treatment site compared to other patient settings. 

&#32;5 

Effective Care Management Clinical Programs that are Designed to Produce Positive Clinical Outcomes and Reduce Readmissions 

&#160; 

Our diversified and comprehensive clinical programs, which span numerous therapeutic areas, are designed to improve patient outcomes. &#32; Our home infusion business provides traditional infusion therapies for acute conditions with accompanying clinical management and home care. Our infusion product offerings and services are also designed to treat patients with chronic infusion needs. Chronic conditions require the long-term treatment, ongoing caregiver and patient counseling and education regarding patient treatment, and ongoing monitoring and communication with physicians to encourage patients to follow therapies prescribed by their physicians. 

Our Centers of Excellence focus on interdisciplinary teams to provide clinical excellence with outstanding personal service. Externally qualified by a panel of leading industry experts, the Centers employ evidence-based standards of care, policies and procedures built on industry-recognized best practices. They are led by specialists with advanced certifications and training who are dedicated to developing, improving and sustaining clinical services to achieve optimal patient outcomes and exceed the expectations of patients and referral sources. 

Our clinical management programs in multiple disease-state therapy provide us opportunities to cross-sell services and technologies. We believe we have earned a positive reputation among patients, physicians, payors and pharmaceutical manufacturers by providing quality service and favorable clinical outcomes. We believe our platform provides the necessary programs and services for better and more efficient clinical outcomes for our patients. 

Financial Information about Operating and Reporting Segments 

Following the sale of the Home Health Business on March 31, 2014 and the sale of the PBM Business on August 27, 2015, Infusion Services is the only remaining operating segment. On an ongoing basis we will no longer report operating segments unless a change in the business creates the need to do so. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

&#160; 

Products and Services 

We are one of the largest providers of home infusion services in the United States. Home infusion involves the preparation, delivery, administration and clinical monitoring of pharmaceutical treatments that are administered to a patient via intravenous (into the vein), subcutaneous (into the fatty layer under the skin), intramuscular (into the muscle), intra-spinal (into the membranes around the spinal cord) and enteral (into the gastrointestinal tract) methods. These methods are employed when a physician determines that the best outcome can be achieved through utilization of one or more of the therapies provided through the routes of administration described above. 

Our home infusion services primarily involve the intravenous administration of medications treating a wide range of acute and chronic conditions, such as infections, nutritional deficiencies, various immunologic and neurologic disorders, cancer, pain and palliative care. Our services are usually provided in the patient&#8217;s home but may also be provided at outpatient clinics, skilled nursing facilities, the physician&#8217;s office or at one of our ambulatory infusion centers. We receive payment for our home health services and medications, pursuant to provider agreements with government sources, such as Medicare and Medicaid programs, MCOs and Third Party Payers. 

We provide a wide array of home infusion products and services to meet the diverse needs of physicians, patients and payors. Diseases commonly requiring infusion therapy include infections that are unresponsive to oral antibiotics, cancer and cancer-related pain, dehydration and gastrointestinal diseases or disorders that prevent normal functioning of the gastrointestinal tract, which require IV fluids, parenteral or enteral nutrition. Other conditions treated with infusion therapies may include chronic diseases such as heart failure, Crohn&#8217;s disease, hemophilia, immune deficiencies, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, growth disorders and genetic enzyme deficiencies, such as Gaucher&#8217;s or Pompe&#8217;s disease. The therapies and products most commonly provided are listed below: 

&#32;6 

Therapy Type 

Description 

Parenteral Nutrition (PN) 

Provide intravenous nutrition customized to the nutritional needs of the patient. PN is used in patients that cannot meet their nutritional needs via other means due to disease process or as a complication of a disease process, surgical procedure or congenital anomaly. PN may be used short term or chronically. 

Enteral Nutrition (EN) 

Provide nutrition directly to the stomach or intestine in patients who cannot chew or swallow nutrients in the usual manner. EN may be delivered via a naso-gastric tube or a tube placed directly into the stomach or intestine. EN may be used short term or chronically. 

Antimicrobial Therapy (AT) 

Provide intravenous antimicrobial medications used in the treatment of patients with various infectious processes such as: HIV/AIDS, wound infections, pneumonia, osteomyelitis, cystic fibrosis, Lyme disease and cellulitis. AT may also be used in patients with disease processes or therapies that may lead to infections when oral antimicrobials are not effective. 

Chemotherapy 

Provide injectable and/or infused medications in the home or the prescriber&#8217;s office for the treatment of cancer. Adjuvant medications may also be provided to minimize the side effects associated with chemotherapy. 

Immune Globulin (IG) Therapy 

Provide immune globulins intravenously or subcutaneously on an as-needed basis in patients with immune deficiencies or auto-immune diseases. This therapy may be chronic based on the etiology of the immune deficiency. 

Pain Management 

Provide analgesic medications intravenously, subcutaneously or epidurally. This therapy is generally administered as a continuous infusion via an internal or external infusion pump to treat severe pain associated with diseases such as COPD, cancer and severe injury. 

Blood Factor Therapies 

Provide medications to patients with one of several inherited bleeding disorders in which a patient does not manufacture the clotting factors necessary or use the clotting factors their liver makes appropriately in order to halt an external or internal bleed in response to a physical injury or trauma. 

Inotropes Therapy 

Provide intravenous inotropes in the home for the treatment of heart failure, either in anticipation of cardiac transplant or to provide palliation of heart failure symptoms. Inotropes increase the strength of weak heart muscles to pump blood. The therapy is only started in late phase heart failure when alternative therapies proved inadequate. 

Respiratory Therapy/Home Medical Equipment 

Provide oxygen systems, continuous or bi-level positive airway pressure devices, nebulizers, home ventilators, respiratory devices, respiratory medications and other medical equipment. 

Patients generally are referred to us by physicians, hospital discharge planners, MCOs and other referral sources. Our medications are compounded and dispensed under the supervision of a registered pharmacist in a state licensed pharmacy that is accredited by an independent accrediting organization. We only compound pursuant to a patient specific prescription and do so in compliance with USP 797 standards. A national accrediting organization surveys our pharmacies for compliance with the USP 797 standards for sterile drug compounding pharmacies and has confirmed that we are in compliance with those standards. Therapies are typically administered in the patient&#8217;s home by a registered nurse or trained caregiver. Depending on the preferences of the patient or the payor, these services may also be provided at one of our ambulatory infusion centers, a physician's office or another alternate site of administration. 

We currently have relationships with a large number of MCOs and other Third Party Payors to provide home infusion services. These relationships are at a national, regional or local level. A key element of our business strategy is to leverage our relationships, geographic coverage, clinical expertise and reputation in order to gain contracts with payors. Our infusion service contracts typically provide for us to receive a fee for preparing and delivering medications and related equipment to patients in their homes. Pricing for pharmaceutical products is typically negotiated in advance on the basis of Average Wholesale Price (&#8220;AWP&#8221;) minus some percentage of contractual discount, or Average Sales Price (&#8220;ASP&#8221;) plus some percentage. In addition, we typically receive a per diem payment for the service and supplies component of care provided to patients in connection with infusion services and a visit rate for the associated skilled nursing provided. 

&#32;7 

Sales and Marketing 

We have over 237 sales and marketing representatives and approximately 1,000 payor relationships including MCOs, Medicare Part D pharmacy networks, other government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and other Third Party Payors. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on payors, healthcare systems and physician prescribers and are driven by dedicated managed care and physician sales teams as well as home health care consultants. Our sales and marketing strategies include the development of strong relationships with key referral sources, such as physicians, hospital discharge planners, case managers, long-term care facilities and other healthcare professionals, primarily through regular contact with the referral sources and by fulfilling the care and service expectations of our many customers. Contracts with Third Party Payors, including MCOs, are an integral component for sales success. 

Intellectual Property 

We own and use a variety of trademarks, trade names and service marks, including without limitation &#8220;BioScrip&#8221;, &#8220;BioScrip Infusion Services&#8221;, &#8220;BioScrip Medical Supply Services&#8221;, &#8220;BioScrip Nursing Services&#8221;, &#8220;BioScrip Pharmacy Services&#8221;, &#8220;Applied Health Care&#8221;, &#8220;CarePoint Partners&#8221;, &#8220;Critical Homecare Solutions&#8221;, &#8220;HomeChoice Partners&#8221;, &#8220;InfuScience&#8221;, &#8220;InfusionCare&#8221;, &#8220;Infusion Partners&#8221;, &#8220;Infusion Solutions&#8221;, &#8220;New England Home Therapies&#8221;, &#8220;Option Health&#8221;, &#8220;Professional Home Care Services&#8221;, &#8220;Wilcox Home Infusion&#8221; and &#8220;Wilcox Medical&#8221;, each of which has either been registered at the state or federal level or is being used pursuant to common law rights. We are recognized in local markets by several of these trade names, but we do not consider the marks material to our business. 

Competition 

The home infusion services market is highly competitive and includes a limited number of national providers and numerous local and regional companies. Providers strive to differentiate their services based on their responsiveness to patient needs, quality of care, reputation with referral sources and cost of service. Our Centers of Excellence offer a high touch, high service approach to care on a local basis, which we believe differentiates our service. 

Our competitors within the home infusion market include Option Care, Coram CVS/specialty infusion services (a division of CVS Health), Accredo Health Group, Inc. (a subsidiary of Express Scripts Holding Company), AxelaCare (a subsidiary of OptumRx, which is a unit of the UnitedHealthcare Group) and various regional and local providers of alternate site healthcare services such as hospitals and physician practices. 

Government Regulation 

The healthcare industry is subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental entities at the federal, state and local level. The healthcare regulatory landscape is also subject to frequent change. Laws and regulations in the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation. Our business is impacted not only by those laws and regulations that are directly applicable to us but also by certain laws and regulations that are applicable to our payors, vendors and referral sources. While our management believes we are in substantial compliance with all of the existing laws and regulations applicable to us, such laws and regulations are subject to rapid change and often are uncertain in their application. Further, to the extent we engage in new business initiatives, we must continue to evaluate whether new laws and regulations are applicable to us. As controversies continue to arise in the healthcare industry, federal and state regulation and enforcement priorities in this area may increase, the impact of which cannot be predicted. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to scrutiny or challenge under one or more of these laws or that any such challenge would not be successful. Any such challenge, whether or not successful, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amended PPACA (collectively, the &#8220;Health Reform Law&#8221;), may have a considerable impact on the financing and delivery of health care and conceivably could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Among the various federal and state laws and regulations which may govern or impact our current and planned operations are the following: 

&#160; 

Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement 

Many of the products and services that we provide are reimbursed by Medicare and state Medicaid programs and are therefore subject to extensive government regulation. Medicare is a federally funded program that provides health insurance coverage for 

&#32;8 

qualified persons age 65 or older and for some disabled persons with certain specific conditions. The Medicare Program currently consists of four parts: Medicare Part A, which covers, among other things, inpatient hospital, skilled nursing facility, home nursing and certain other types of healthcare services; Medicare Part B, which covers physicians' services, outpatient services, items and services provided by medical suppliers and a limited number of prescription drugs; Medicare Part C, which generally allows beneficiaries to enroll in private healthcare plans (known as Medicare Advantage plans); and Medicare Part D, established by the Medicare Prescription, Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (&#8220;Medicare Modernization Act&#8221;), which provides for a voluntary prescription drug benefit. 

The Medicaid Program provides medical benefits to groups of low-income and disabled individuals, some of whom may have inadequate or no medical insurance. Although the federal government establishes general guidelines for the program, Medicaid is a state administered program and each state sets its own guidelines regarding eligibility and covered services, subject to certain minimum federal requirements. 

Congress often enacts legislation that affects, positively or negatively, the reimbursement rates of Medicare providers and also may impact Medicaid providers. Generally, Medicare provider payment modifications occur in the context of budget reconciliation; however, Medicare changes also may occur in the context of broader healthcare policy legislation, including the Health Reform Law. In the last several years, Congress has reduced Medicare reimbursement for various providers, including Medicare Part B suppliers. 

Approximately 23% &#32;of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;was derived directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. Also, we indirectly provide services to beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs through managed care entities. Should there be material changes to federal or state reimbursement methodologies, regulations or policies, our direct reimbursements from government-sponsored healthcare programs, as well as service fees that relate indirectly to such reimbursements, could be adversely affected. In addition, certain state Medicaid programs only allow for reimbursement to pharmacies residing in the state or in a border state. While we believe we can service our current Medicaid patients through our existing infusion pharmacies, there can be no assurance that additional states will not enact in-state dispensing requirements for their Medicaid programs. To the extent such requirements are enacted, certain therapeutic pharmaceutical reimbursements could be adversely affected. 

Medicare Parts B and D 

We receive reimbursement for infusion therapy under both Medicare Part B and Medicare Part D. In connection with the enactment of the Medicare Modernization Act, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;) promulgated a substantial volume of new regulations implementing the federal government&#8217;s Voluntary Prescription Drug Benefit Program, known as Medicare Part D. CMS has attempted to clarify issues regarding coverage of infused drugs under Medicare Part D and the relationship with existing coverage under Medicare Part B. In certain cases, both Medicare Parts B and D will cover identical infused drugs. CMS has stated that coverage is generally determined by the diagnosis and the method of drug delivery. 

Under Medicare Part D, the ingredient costs and dispensing fees associated with the administration of home infusion therapies are covered. Under Medicare Part B, no separate dispensing reimbursement is available. For eligible Medicare beneficiaries, the cost of equipment and supplies associated with infused drugs covered under Medicare Part D will continue to be reimbursed on a limited basis under Medicare Part A or Part B, as applicable, and the cost of professional services associated with infused covered Medicare Part D drugs will continue to be reimbursed on a limited basis under Medicare Part A. For beneficiaries who are dually eligible for benefits under Medicare and a state Medicaid program, Medicaid covered infused drugs will be reimbursed under individual state coverage guidelines if coverage is denied by Medicare. 

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (&#8220;HHS&#8221;), Office of the Inspector General (&#8220;OIG&#8221;) and CMS continue to issue guidance with regard to the Medicare Part D program and compliance with related federal laws and regulations by Medicare Part D sponsors and their subcontractors. For example, on February 12, 2015, CMS finalized regulations that made a number of changes to Medicare Part D. The receipt of funds made available through this program may be subject to compliance with these new regulations, the established laws and regulations governing the federal government&#8217;s payment for healthcare goods and services, and provisions in contracts with the prescription drug plans. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare Part D program, and these risks could negatively impact our business in future periods. 

&#160; 

&#32;9 

Medicare Part C - Medicare Advantage 

Under Medicare Part C, beneficiaries can choose to enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan sponsored by an MCO. Providers who serve these beneficiaries must contract with the applicable MCO plan. Reimbursement and other requirements imposed on the provider are governed by the agreement with the MCO plan rather than by statute or regulation and as such vary from plan to plan. Medicare advantage plans are permitted to cover certain services that fee-for-service Medicare does not cover. We currently have contracts with a number of Medicare advantage plans. 

Legislative Changes to Medicare Reimbursement 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 established requirements for a competitive bidding program for determining Medicare reimbursement rates for certain items of durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies (&#8220;DMEPOS&#8221;), including enteral nutrients, supplies and equipment, certain respiratory therapy and home medical equipment products and external infusion pumps and supplies. CMS has the discretion to determine which products will be subject to competitive bidding. 

The first round of competitive bidding occurred in nine metropolitan areas around the country, called Competitive Bidding Areas (&#8220;CBAs&#8221;) and was effective from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013. Round 1 did not have a material impact on our business. A Round 1 Recompete was also conducted in the same nine CBAs and included six product categories, including external infusion pumps. The prices for the Round 1 Recompete went into effect January 1, 2014 and will expire December 31, 2016. Bids were due on a Round 1 2017 in the fourth quarter of 2015. The Round 1 2017 is for the same geographic areas that were included in the first round of competitive bidding, although due to defining CBAs so that no CBA is included in more than one state, the number of CBAs expanded from nine to thirteen. The Round 1 2017 included seven product categories. All of the categories from the Round 1 Recompete were included except for external infusion pumps and supplies. Bids for the Round 1 2017 were due in the fourth quarter of 2015. CMS is expected to announce winners of the Round 1 2017 in the fall of 2016. Prices for the Round 1 2017 will go into effect January 1, 2017. 

The second round of competitive bidding was conducted in 100 additional CBAs for eight product categories. New prices for the Round 2 CBAs went into effect July 1, 2013 and will expire June 30, 2016. CMS is expected to announce winners of the Round 2 Recompete in the first quarter of 2016. The Round 2 Recompete is for the same geographic areas that were included in the second round of competitive bidding, although due to the Office of Management and Budget&#8217;s updates there are 117 CBAs in the Round 2 Recompete. The Round 2 Recompete includes seven product categories. The prices for the Round 2 Recompete will go into effect July 1, 2016. 

The Health Reform Law required that CMS institute competitive bidding or use competitive bidding prices in all areas of the country by January 1, 2016. Final regulations were published November 6, 2014, which defined the methodologies used to implement the use of information from the competitive bidding program to adjust the fee schedule amounts for DME in areas where competitive bidding programs are not implemented. The Medicare fee schedule reimbursement amounts for DMEPOS published November 23, 2015, for the first time, take into account competitive bidding information. Such adjusted fee schedule will be phased in over the first six months of 2016. 

Medicare currently covers home infusion therapy for selected therapies primarily through the durable medical equipment benefit. Congressional legislation was introduced in January 2015 that would establish Medicare coverage of home infusion therapy services. The bill would provide for reimbursement for the professional services, supplies and equipment associated with infusion therapy in the home under Medicare Part B and would provide for coordination between drug coverage under Part D and coverage for home infusion therapy services under Part B. We cannot predict whether this bill will be passed and if it is, what impact it will have on our business. The Health Reform Law did not change Medicare coverage for home infusion therapy or home infusion drugs. 

State Legislation and Other Matters Affecting Drug Prices 

Many states have adopted legislation that limits the amount a pharmacy participating in the state Medicaid program is paid based on the pharmacy&#8217;s prices applicable to third party plans, or in some instances, self-pay patients (&#8220;most favored nation&#8221; legislation). Because of these limitations, we may not receive the full Medicaid fee schedule amounts in some instances. There is wide variation in drafting, interpretation and enforcement of states&#8217; &#8220;most favored nation&#8221; legislation. Our management carefully considers these laws and believes that each of our respective companies is in material compliance with them, however, we cannot predict whether the regulators will disagree with our interpretation or change their interpretation of the laws or their enforcement priorities. 

&#32;10 

Effective September 26, 2009, First DataBank and Medi-Span agreed to reduce the mark-up factor applied to Wholesale Acquisition Cost (&#8220;WAC&#8221;), on which AWP is based, from 1.25 to 1.20 for the approximately 1,400 drug codes that were the subject of the lawsuits. These AWP publishers also similarly reduced the mark-up factor on all other national drug codes on which they had marked up AWP. This voluntary reduction affected approximately 18,000 national drug codes. First DataBank ceased publication of the AWP pricing benchmarks on September 28, 2011. As of the date of this report, a viable generally accepted alternative to the AWP benchmark has not been developed by the industry, and Medi-Span has announced they will continue to publish AWP until a new benchmark is widely accepted. See &#8220;Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business - Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance .&#8221; 

Medicaid 

We are also sensitive to possible changes in state Medicaid programs as we do business with several state Medicaid programs. Budgetary concerns in many states have resulted in, and may continue to result in, reductions to Medicaid reimbursement and Medicaid eligibility as well as delays in payment of outstanding claims. Any reductions to or delays in collecting amounts reimbursable by state Medicaid programs for our products or services, or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements, could cause our revenue and profitability to decline and increase our working capital requirements. For further discussion on state Medicaid reductions, refer to &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; &#32;in Part II, Item 7. 

Healthcare Reform Legislation - The Health Reform Law 

In March 2010, the President signed into law the Health Reform Law. The Health Reform Law has resulted in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of health care. In general, among other things, the reforms increase the number of persons covered under government program and private insurance; furnish economic incentives for measurable improvements in health care quality outcomes; promote a more integrated health care delivery system and the creation of new health care delivery models; revise payment for health care services under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and increase government enforcement tools and sanctions for combating fraud and abuse by health care providers. In addition, the Health Reform Law reduces cost sharing for Medicare beneficiaries under the Part D prescription drug benefit program and provides funding for medication management services by licensed pharmacists to individuals with chronic conditions. 

While many regulations for many requirements have been promulgated, further implementation of certain of the requirements under the Health Reform Law will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies, including the HHS. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these changes and the net effect of those requirements on us. 

Regulation of the Pharmacy Industry 

&#160; 

Every state's laws require each of our pharmacy locations to be licensed as an in-state pharmacy to dispense pharmaceuticals. Pharmacy and controlled substances laws often address the qualifications of an applicant's personnel, the adequacy of its prescription fulfillment and inventory control practices and the adequacy of its facilities. In general, pharmacy licenses are renewed annually. We believe our pharmacy locations materially comply with all state licensing laws applicable to their practice. If our pharmacy locations become subject to additional licensure requirements, are unable to maintain their required licenses or if states place overly burdensome restrictions or limitations on pharmacies, our ability to operate in some states would be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We believe the impact of any such requirements would be mitigated by our ability to shift business among our numerous locations. 

Many states, as well as the federal government, are considering imposing, or have already begun to impose, more stringent requirements on compounding pharmacies including the Drug Quality and Security Act (&#8220;DQSA&#8221;) (see Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act below). We believe that our compounding is done in safe environments with clinically appropriate policies and procedures in place. Those compounding pharmacies adhere to rigorous safety and quality standards for compounded sterile preparations and only fill prescriptions for individually identified patients pursuant to a valid prescription from a prescriber. All compounding is done in compliance with USP 797 standards. 

Many of the states into which we deliver pharmaceuticals have laws and regulations that require out-of-state pharmacies to register with, or be licensed by, the boards of pharmacy or similar regulatory bodies in those states. These states generally permit the dispensing pharmacy to follow the laws of the state within which the dispensing pharmacy is located. However, various state pharmacy boards have enacted laws and/or adopted rules or regulations directed at restricting or prohibiting the operation of out-of-state pharmacies by, among other things, requiring compliance with all laws of the states into which the out-of-state pharmacy dispenses medications, whether or not those laws conflict with the laws of the state in which the pharmacy is located, or requiring the pharmacist-in-charge to be licensed in that state. To the extent that such laws or regulations are applicable to our operations, 

&#32;11 

we believe we comply with them. To the extent that the foregoing laws or regulations prohibit or restrict the operation of out-of-state pharmacies and are found to be applicable to us, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. 

Laws enforced by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) require each of our pharmacy locations to register with the DEA in order to handle and dispense controlled substances. A separate registration is required at each principal place of business where we dispense controlled substances. Federal and state laws also require us to follow specific labeling, reporting and record-keeping requirements for controlled substances. We maintain federal and state controlled substance registrations for each of our facilities that require such registration and follow procedures intended to comply with all applicable federal and state requirements regarding controlled substances. These laws can change from time to time. We continuously review these changes to laws and believe we are in material compliance with the applicable federal and state controlled substances laws. If any of our pharmacy locations is deemed to be out of compliance, it could have an adverse impact on our business. 

Many states in which we operate also require home infusion companies to be licensed as home health agencies. We believe we materially comply with these laws. If our infusion locations become subject to new licensure requirements, are unable to maintain required licenses or if states place burdensome restrictions or limitations on home health agencies or home nursing agencies, our infusion locations&#8217; ability to provide nursing services in some states would be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our business. 

Professional Licensure 

Nurses, pharmacists and certain other professionals employed by us are required to be individually licensed and/or certified under applicable state law. We perform criminal and other background checks on employees to the extent allowed by state law and confirm that our employees possess all licenses and certifications required in order to provide healthcare-related services. We believe our employees comply with applicable licensure laws. 

Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act 

Pharmacy operations 

Certain provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (&#8220;FDCA&#8221;) govern the preparation, handling, storage, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. This law exempts many pharmaceuticals and medical devices we dispense from certain federal requirements as long as they are not adulterated or misbranded and are dispensed in accordance with, and pursuant to, a valid prescription. 

Since the passage of DQSA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) directly regulates outsourcing facilities, but does not directly regulate non-outsourcing facilities or pharmacies. Outsourcing facilities are pharmacies that are engaged in sterile compounding of drugs that are not for an individually identifiable patient. As such, these outsourcing facilities are subject to a standard relating to sterilization and the physical facility that are the same as pharmaceutical manufacturers (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;). Because we only fill prescriptions pursuant to valid prescriptions for individually identifiable patients, we do not qualify as an outsourcing facility, and therefore, should not be required to comply with the cGMP standards. The FDA has been conducting inspections of pharmacies that engage in compounding, including ours, and has been attempting to apply the cGMP standards even though those pharmacies are not outsourcing facilities. While the FDA has issued reports following their surveys, to date, no enforcement action has been taken against us. We cannot predict what further actions the FDA may take. We believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and that the requirements for outsourcing facilities are not applicable to our operations. We cannot predict the impact of increased scrutiny on or new regulation of compounding pharmacies. 

In addition, the FDCA governs pharmaceutical products&#8217; movement in interstate commerce. The FDA has begun scrutinizing more closely compounding pharmacies&#8217; operations and compounded pharmaceuticals&#8217; movement in interstate commerce. Specifically, the FDA has proposed regulations that could have the effect of limiting our ability to ship prescriptions out of state by pharmacies that hold valid licenses but do not comply with cGMP standards. We do not know if these regulations, as proposed, will be adopted, but if they are, we will likely need to modify our operations to comply. While we cannot predict the new regulatory environment under the DQSA, we believe we comply in all material respects with all applicable requirements of a non-outsourcing-facility pharmacy. 

Infusion services 

Certain medical devices (e.g., infusion pumps) essential to the company&#8217;s infusion services are governed by the FDCA and regulated by FDA. An infusion pump, like any medical device, is subject to failure. Since 2010, due to the relatively large number of adverse events associated with the use of infusion pumps, FDA has begun to change its approach to overseeing infusion pumps. 

&#32;12 

Changes have included introducing higher levels of scrutiny, intensifying manufacturer engagement and bolstering user education and adverse event reporting. The shifting regulatory climate around infusion pumps; the requirement to maintain high levels of proficiency in using and training patients in the safe use of infusion pumps; cybersecurity issues, including modification and misuse of infusion pumps, and unauthorized use of information that is stored on or accessed from infusion pumps; and, finally, the need to stay current in infusion pump design and &#8220;best practices,&#8221; present elements of risk. Nevertheless, we believe we comply in all material respects with all applicable requirements and that our employees are adequately trained and equipped to use these devices. 

Fraud and Abuse Laws 

Anti-Kickback Laws 

Subject to certain statutory and regulatory exceptions (including exceptions relating to certain managed care, discount, bona fide employment arrangements, group purchasing and personal services arrangements), the federal &#8220;anti-kickback&#8221; law prohibits the knowing and willful offer or payment of any remuneration to induce the referral of an individual or the purchase, lease or order (or the arranging for or recommending of the purchase, lease or order) of healthcare items or services paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-funded healthcare programs. Violation of the federal anti-kickback statute could subject us to criminal and/or civil penalties including suspension or exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and other government-funded healthcare programs. A number of states also have enacted anti-kickback laws that sometimes apply not only to state-sponsored healthcare programs but also to items or services that are paid for by private insurance and self-pay patients. State anti-kickback laws can vary considerably in their applicability and scope and sometimes have fewer statutory and regulatory exceptions than does the federal law. Our management carefully considers the importance of such anti-kickback laws when structuring each company&#8217;s operations and believes that each of our respective companies is in compliance therewith. 

The federal anti-kickback law has been interpreted broadly by courts, the OIG and other administrative bodies. Because of the broad scope of those statutes, federal regulations establish certain safe harbors from liability. Safe harbors exist for certain properly reported discounts received from vendors, certain investment interests held by a person or entity, certain properly disclosed payments made by vendors to group purchasing organizations, payments made for leases of space and equipment and payments for personal services as well as for other transactions or relationships. Nonetheless, a practice that does not fall within a safe harbor is not necessarily unlawful, but may be subject to scrutiny and challenge. In the absence of an applicable exception or safe harbor, a violation of the statute may occur even if only one purpose of a payment arrangement is to induce patient referrals or purchases. 

Governmental entities have investigated pharmacies and their dealings with pharmaceutical manufacturers concerning, among other things, retail distribution, sales and marketing practices and product conversion or product switching programs. Governmental entities have also investigated pharmacies with respect to their relationships with physicians and other referral sources. There can be no assurance that we will not receive subpoenas or be requested to produce documents in pending investigations or litigation from time to time. In addition, we may be the target or subject of one or more such investigations or named parties in corresponding actions. 

On April 18, 2003, the OIG released Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the &#8220;Guidance&#8221;), which is designed to provide voluntary, nonbinding guidance in devising effective compliance programs to assist companies that develop, manufacture, market and sell pharmaceutical products or biological products. The Guidance provides the OIG's view of the fundamental elements of a pharmaceutical manufacturer&#8217;s compliance program and principles that should be considered when creating and implementing an effective compliance program, or as a benchmark for companies with existing compliance programs. While we are not a manufacturer, we believe that many aspects of it are useful to our business and therefore we currently maintain a compliance program that includes the key compliance program elements described in the Guidance. We believe the fundamental elements of our compliance programs are consistent with the principles, policies and intent of the Guidance. 

The Stark Laws 

The federal self-referral law, commonly known as the &#8220;Stark Law,&#8221; prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients for &#8220;designated health services&#8221; (which include, among other things, outpatient prescription drugs, durable medical equipment and supplies and home health services) to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member of the physician, has a direct or indirect financial relationship, unless the financial relationship is structured to meet an applicable exception. Possible penalties for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment, refund of amounts collected in violation of the statute, civil monetary penalties and program exclusion. Our management carefully considers the Stark Law and its accompanying regulations in structuring our financial relationships with physicians and believes we are in compliance therewith. 

&#32;13 

State Self-Referral Laws 

We are subject to state statutes and regulations that prohibit payments for the referral of patients and referrals by physicians to healthcare providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship. Some state statutes and regulations apply to services reimbursed by governmental as well as private payors. Violation of these laws may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of pharmacy or health provider licenses, fines and criminal penalties. The laws and exceptions or safe harbors may vary from the federal Stark Law and vary significantly from state to state. Certain of these state statutes mirror the federal Stark Law while others may be more restrictive. The laws are often vague, and in many cases, have not been widely interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies; however, we believe we are in compliance with such laws. 

Statutes Prohibiting False Claims and Fraudulent Billing Activities 

A range of federal civil and criminal laws target false claims and fraudulent billing activities. One of the most significant is the federal False Claims Act, which we refer to as the False Claims Act, which imposes civil penalties for knowingly making or causing to be made false claims in order to secure a reimbursement from government-sponsored programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Investigations or actions commenced under the False Claims Act may be brought either by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government, through a &#8220;whistleblower&#8221; or &#8220;qui tam&#8221; action. The False Claims Act authorizes the payment of a portion of any recovery to the individual bringing suit. Such actions are initially required to be filed under seal pending their review by the Department of Justice. If the government intervenes in the lawsuit and prevails, the whistleblower (or plaintiff filing the initial complaint) may share with the federal government in any settlement or judgment. If the government does not intervene in the lawsuit, the whistleblower plaintiff may pursue the action independently. The False Claims Act generally provides for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, resulting in the possibility of substantial financial penalties for small billing errors that are replicated in a large number of claims, as each individual claim could be deemed to be a separate violation of the False Claims Act. Significantly, the Health Reform Law amended the False Claims Act to require that an overpayment must be reported and returned to the government within 60 days after an overpayment is identified. The failure to comply with this requirement now constitutes a violation of the federal False Claims Act. 

Some states also have enacted statutes similar to the False Claims Act which may include criminal penalties, substantial fines, and treble damages. In recent years, federal and state governments have launched several initiatives aimed at uncovering practices that violate false claims or fraudulent billing laws. Under Section 1909 of the Social Security Act, which became effective January 1, 2007, if a state false claim act meets certain requirements as determined by the OIG in consultation with the U.S. Attorney General, the state is entitled to an increase of ten percentage points in the state medical assistance percentage with respect to any amounts recovered under a state action brought under such a law. Some of the larger states in terms of population that have had the OIG review such laws include: California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. We operate in all of these states and we submit claims for Medicaid reimbursement to the respective state Medicaid agencies. We expect the list of states that enact qualifying false claims acts to continue to grow. This legislation has led to increased auditing activities by state healthcare regulators. As a result, we have been the subject of an increased number of audits. Further, a number of states, including states in which we operate, have adopted their own false claims statutes as well as statutes that allow individuals to bring qui tam actions. We believe we have procedures in place to ensure the accuracy of our claims. While we believe we are in compliance with Medicaid and Medicare billing rules and requirements, there can be no assurance that regulators would agree with the methodology employed by us in billing for our products and services, and a material disagreement between us, on the one hand, and these governmental agencies, on the other hand, on the manner in which we provide products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The False Claims Act also has been used by the federal government and private whistleblowers to bring enforcement actions under so-called &#8220;fraud and abuse&#8221; laws like the federal anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law. Such actions are not based on a contention that an entity has submitted claims that are factually invalid. Instead, such actions are based on the theory that when an entity submits a claim, it either expressly or impliedly certifies that it has provided the underlying services in compliance with applicable laws, and therefore that services provided and billed for during an anti-kickback statute or Stark Law violation result in false claims, even if such claims are billed accurately for appropriate and medically necessary services. The existence of the False Claims Act, which enforces alleged fraud and abuse violations, has increased the potential for such actions to be brought and has increased the potential financial exposure for such actions. These actions are costly and time-consuming to defend. 

Civil Monetary Penalties Act 

The Civil Monetary Penalties Act authorizes the U.S. Secretary of HHS to impose civil money penalties, assessments and program supervision or exclusion for various forms of fraud and abuse involving the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties range from $2,000 to $100,000 for each violation, depending on the specific misconduct involved. The Inspector General must only prove liability by a &#8220;preponderance of the evidence&#8221; rather than the more demanding &#8220;beyond a reasonable doubt&#8221; standard 

&#32;14 

required in criminal actions. A health care provider may be held liable based on its own negligence and the negligence of its employees. There is no requirement that intent to defraud must be proved. The availability of the Civil Money Penalties Act to enforce alleged fraud and abuse violations has increased the potential for such actions and has increased the potential financial exposure for such actions. These actions are costly and time-consuming to defend. 

Confidentiality, Privacy and HIPAA 

Many of our activities involve the receipt, use and/or disclosure of confidential medical, pharmacy or other health-related information concerning individual patients, including the disclosure of such confidential information to an individual's health plan. 

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (collectively, &#8220;HIPAA&#8221;), as amended by the Health Information for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (&#8220;HITECH&#8221;), give people greater control over the privacy of their medical information. The federal privacy regulations (the &#8220;Privacy Regulations&#8221;) are designed to protect the medical information of a healthcare patient or health plan enrollee that could be used to identify the individual. We refer to this information as protected health information (&#8220;PHI&#8221;). Among numerous other requirements, the Privacy Regulations, as amended by HITECH: (i) limit permissible uses and disclosures of PHI; (ii) limit most disclosures of PHI to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose; (iii) require patient authorization for uses and disclosures of PHI unless an exception applies; and (iv) guarantee patients the right to access their medical records and to receive an accounting of disclosures. The federal security regulations (the &#8220;Security Regulations&#8221;) set certain standards regarding the storage, utilization of, access to and transmission of electronic PHI. The federal breach notification regulations (the &#8220;Breach Notification Regulations&#8221;) require notification to individuals, the federal government and, in some cases, the media in the event of a breach of unsecured PHI. 

These regulations apply to &#8220;covered entities,&#8221; which include most healthcare providers and health plans, and some of these regulations apply to &#8220;business associates,&#8221; which are persons or entities that perform or assist in performing services or activities for or on behalf of a covered entity, if the performance of those services or activities involves the creation, receipt, maintenance or transmission of PHI. HIPAA also requires that a covered entity and its business associates enter into written contracts whereby the business associate agrees to restrict its use and disclosure of PHI. We provide a varied line of services to patients and other entities. When we are acting as a pharmacy or health care provider, we function as a covered entity. There may also be situations when we act on behalf of another covered entity as a business associate. 

The requirements imposed by HIPAA are extensive, and it has required substantial cost and effort to assess and implement measures to comply with those requirements. We have taken and intend to continue to take steps that we believe are reasonably necessary to ensure our policies and procedures are in compliance with the Privacy Regulations, the Security Regulations and the Breach Notification Regulations. The requirements imposed by HIPAA have increased our burden and costs of regulatory compliance (including our health improvement programs and other information-based products), altered our reporting and reduced the amount of information we can use or disclose if patients do not authorize such uses or disclosures. 

In addition, most states have enacted privacy and security laws, including laws that protect particularly sensitive medical information (such as HIV status or mental health records) and breach notification laws that may impose an obligation to notify persons if their personal information has or may have been accessed by an unauthorized person. Some of these laws apply to our business and have increased and will continue to increase our burden and costs of privacy and security-related regulatory compliance. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,844 &#32;full-time, 54 &#32;part-time and 388 &#32;per diem employees. Per diem employees are defined as those available on an as-needed basis. None of our employees are represented by any union and, in our opinion, relations with our employees are satisfactory. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.bioscrip.com . The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this report. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. We make available, free of charge through our website, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy for our Company, including our directors, officers and employees. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy and the charters of the Audit Committee, Management Development 

&#32;15 

and Compensation Committee, and Governance, Compliance and Nominating Committee of our board of directors are available on our website at www.bioscrip.com. 

