 Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Old Point Financial Corporation (the Company) was incorporated under the laws of Virginia on February 16, 1984, for the purpose of acquiring all the outstanding common stock of The Old Point National Bank of Phoebus (the Bank), in connection with the reorganization of the Bank into a one-bank holding company structure. At the annual meeting of the stockholders on March 27, 1984, the proposed reorganization was approved by the requisite stockholder vote. At the effective date of the reorganization on October 1, 1984, the Bank merged into a newly formed national bank as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, with each outstanding share of common stock of the Bank being converted into five shares of common stock of the Company.

The Company completed a spin-off of its trust department as of April 1, 1999. The organization is chartered as Old Point Trust &#38; Financial Services, N.A. (Trust). Trust is a nationally chartered trust company. The purpose of the spin-off was to have a corporate structure more ready to compete in the field of wealth management. Trust is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

The Bank is a national banking association that was founded in 1922. As of the end of 2015, the Bank had 18 branch offices serving the Hampton Roads localities of Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Virginia Beach, Chesapeake, Williamsburg/James City County, York County and Isle of Wight County. The Bank offers a complete line of consumer, mortgage and business banking services, including loan, deposit, and cash management services to individual and commercial customers.

The Company's primary activity is as a holding company for the common stock of the Bank and Trust. The principal business of the Company is conducted through its subsidiaries, which continue to conduct business in substantially the same manner as before the reorganization and spin-off.

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had assets of $896.8 million, loans of $568.5 million, deposits of $746.5 million, and stockholders' equity of $93.2 million. At year-end, the Company and its subsidiaries had a total of 296 employees, 21 of whom were part-time.

MARKET AREA AND COMPETITION

The Company's market area is located in Hampton Roads, situated in the southeastern corner of Virginia and boasting the world's largest natural deep-water harbor. The Hampton Roads Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) is the 37th most populous MSA in the United States according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2010 census and the third largest deposit market in Virginia, after Richmond and the Washington Metropolitan area, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Hampton Roads includes the cities of Chesapeake, Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Poquoson, Portsmouth, Suffolk, Virginia Beach and Williamsburg, and the counties of Isle of Wight, Gloucester, James City, Mathews, York and Surry. The market area is serviced by 67 banks, savings institutions and credit unions and, in addition, branches of virtually every major brokerage house serve the Company's market area.

The banking business in Virginia, and in the Company's primary service areas in the Hampton Roads MSA, is highly competitive and dominated by a relatively small number of large banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area. Among the advantages such large banks have over the Company is their ability to finance wide-ranging advertising campaigns, and by virtue of their greater total capitalization, to have substantially higher lending limits than the Company. Factors such as interest rates offered, the number and location of branches and the types of products offered, as well as the reputation of the institution affect competition for deposits and loans. The Company competes by emphasizing customer service and technology, establishing long-term customer relationships and building customer loyalty, and providing products and services to address the specific needs of the Company's customers. The Company targets individual and small-to-medium size business customers.

Concurrently, the Company continues to build a stronger presence in the business banking market, where greater opportunities for fee-based revenues and cross-selling exist. In 2009, the Company expanded its treasury services offerings by adding a Corporate Banking group and expanding its product offerings to match those offered by larger institutions. This expansion has continued throughout 2015 with an aim towards growth and relationship development. Through these business banking capabilities, the Company is able to service a highly lucrative market that offers the opportunities to identify new revenue streams and cross-sell additional products.

- 1 -

Personal assets held by non-banks are difficult to track at a local level, so research relies on deposits reported by governmental agencies to measure market share. In 2015, the Company held tenth place with 2.49% market share of all Hampton Roads deposits, as compared to 2.60% market share in 2014. On the Peninsula, the Company retains first place in Hampton with 31.69% market share and deposit growth from 2014 of over $17.0 million. While deposits dropped in James City County from 2014 by $732 thousand, deposits grew from 2014 in Newport News by over $2.0 million and in York County by $736 thousand.

In Southside Hampton Roads, the Company increased deposit share in Virginia Beach by $249 thousand over 2014 and moved up in rank from thirteenth to eleventh. However, in the Chesapeake, Isle of Wight County and Norfolk markets deposits decreased from 2014 by $435 thousand, $247 thousand and $4 million, respectively. Combined with heightened marketing efforts, the staff in the Company's newer locations continues to work diligently to increase the Company's name recognition in their respective regions of the Hampton Roads MSA.

The Company also faces competitive pressure from credit unions. The three largest credit unions headquartered in the Hampton Roads MSA are Chartway Federal Credit Union, Langley Federal Credit Union, and Newport News Shipbuilding Employees' Credit Union with deposits totaling approximately $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Both Chartway Federal Credit Union and Langley Federal Credit Union posted a positive growth rate for 2015.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company maintains a website on the Internet at www.oldpoint.com . The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This reference to the Company's Internet address shall not, under any circumstances, be deemed to incorporate the information available at such Internet address into this Form 10-K or other SEC filings. The information available at the Company's Internet address is not part of this Form 10-K or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC. The public may read and copy any documents the Company files at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company's SEC filings can also be obtained on the SEC's website on the Internet at www.sec.gov . 

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

Set forth below is a brief description of some of the material laws and regulations that affect the Company. The description of these statutes and regulations is only a summary and is not a complete discussion or analysis. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations summarized below. No assurance can be given that these statutes or regulations will not change in the future.

General. The Company continues to experience a period of rapidly changing regulations and an environment of constant regulatory reform. These regulatory changes have had and will continue to have a significant impact on how the Company conducts its business. The most significant of these laws is the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), adopted on July 21, 2010, to implement significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. The full extent of the Dodd-Frank Act and other potential regulatory reforms cannot yet be fully determined and will depend to a large extent on regulations that will be adopted in the future.

As a public company, the Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which include, but are not limited to, the filing of annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC. The Company is also required to comply with other laws and regulations of the SEC applicable to public companies.

The Company is also a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the BHCA) and is registered as such with, and subject to the supervision of, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB). Generally, a bank holding company is required to obtain the approval of the FRB before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares of a bank or engaging in an activity considered to be a non-banking activity, either directly or through a subsidiary. Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are also subject to restrictions on transactions with insiders and affiliates.

- 2 -

As a national bank, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the Comptroller). The prior approval of the Comptroller or other appropriate bank regulatory authority is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the constituent organizations and the combined organization, the risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, the applicant's performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act (the CRA) and fair housing initiatives, the data security and cybersecurity infrastructure of the constituent organizations and the combined organization, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. Each depositor's account with the Bank is insured by the FDIC to the maximum amount permitted by law. The Bank is also subject to certain regulations promulgated by the FRB and applicable provisions of Virginia law, insofar as they do not conflict with or are not preempted by federal banking law.

As a non-depository national banking association, Trust is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the Comptroller. Trust's exercise of fiduciary powers must comply with Regulation 9 promulgated by the Comptroller and with Virginia law.

The regulations of the FRB, the Comptroller and the FDIC govern most aspects of the Company's business, including deposit reserve requirements, investments, loans, certain check clearing activities, issuance of securities, payment of dividends, branching, and numerous other matters. Further, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines and released interpretive materials that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safe and sound operation of banks and bank holding companies. These standards relate to the institution's key operating functions, including but not limited to internal controls, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, compensation of management, information systems, data security and cybersecurity, and risk management. As a consequence of the extensive regulation of commercial banking activities in the United States, the Company's business is particularly susceptible to changes in state and federal legislation and regulations, which may have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting permissible activities or increasing competition.

The Bank Holding Company Act. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to the BHCA and regulation and supervision by the FRB. A bank holding company is required to obtain the approval of the FRB before making certain acquisitions or engaging in certain activities. Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are also subject to restrictions on transactions with insiders and affiliates.

A bank holding company is required to obtain the approval of the FRB before it may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, and before it may acquire ownership or control of the voting shares of any bank if, after giving effect to the acquisition, the bank holding company would own or control more than 5 percent of the voting shares of such bank. The approval of the FRB is also required for the merger or consolidation of bank holding companies.

Pursuant to the BHCA, the FRB has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the FRB has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or ownership constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.

The Company is required to file periodic reports with the FRB and provide any additional information the FRB may require. The FRB also has the authority to examine the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as any arrangements between the Company and its subsidiaries, with the cost of any such examinations to be borne by the Company. Banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies are also subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law in dealings with their holding companies and other affiliates.

The Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act implements far-reaching changes across the financial regulatory landscape, including changes that will affect all bank holding companies and banks, including the Company and the Bank. Among other provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act:

&#183;

changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also made permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance and increased the cash limit of Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection from $100,000 to $250,000;

&#183;

repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts;

- 3 -

&#183;

created and centralized significant aspects of consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which is discussed in more detail below;

&#183;

imposed limits for debit card interchange fees for issuers that have assets greater than $10 billion, which also could affect the amount of interchange fees collected by financial institutions with less than $10 billion in assets;

&#183;

restricted the preemption of state law by federal law and disallowed subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks from availing themselves of such preemption;

&#183;

imposed comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market subject to significant rulemaking processes, to include certain provisions that would effectively prohibit insured depository institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in the institution itself;

&#183;

required loan originators to retain 5 percent of any loan sold or securitized, unless it is a "qualified residential mortgage", subject to certain restrictions;

&#183;

prohibited banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (the Volcker Rule); and

&#183;

implemented corporate governance revisions that apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions.

Dodd-Frank Act provisions that require revisions to the capital requirements of the Company, the Bank and Trust could impact their ability to raise capital in the future. Although the Company has not issued trust preferred securities, Dodd-Frank Act provisions that revoke the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities could cause the Company, the Bank and Trust to seek other sources of capital in the future. Some of the rules that have been adopted or proposed to comply with Dodd-Frank Act mandates are discussed in more detail below.

Capital Requirements and Prompt Corrective Action. The FRB, the Comptroller and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies and banks pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) and the Basel III Capital Accords. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K.

The federal banking agencies have broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. Under the FDICIA, there are five capital categories applicable to bank holding companies and insured institutions, each with specific regulatory consequences. The extent of the agencies' powers depends on whether the institution in question is "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically undercapitalized." These terms are defined under uniform regulations issued by each of the federal banking agencies. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an insured institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition, it may reclassify the institution to a lower capital category (other than critically undercapitalized) and require the submission of a plan to correct the unsafe or unsound condition.

Failure to meet statutorily mandated capital guidelines or more restrictive ratios separately established for a financial institution could subject the Company and its subsidiaries to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting or renewing brokered deposits, limitations on the rates of interest that the institution may pay on its deposits, and other restrictions on its business. In addition, an institution may not make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. Thus, if the making of such dividend would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized, it could not pay a dividend to the Company.

Basel III Capital Framework. The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted rules to implement the Basel III capital framework as outlined by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and standards for calculating risk-weighted assets and risk-based capital measurements (collectively, the Basel III Final Rules). For purposes of these capital rules, (i) common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) consists principally of common stock (including surplus) and retained earnings; (ii) Tier 1 capital consists principally of CET1 plus non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, and certain grandfathered cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities; and (iii) Tier 2 capital consists principally of Tier 1 capital plus qualifying subordinated debt and preferred stock, and limited amounts of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Each regulatory capital classification is subject to certain adjustments and limitations, as implemented by the Basel III Final Rules. The Basel III Final Rules also establish risk weightings that are applied to many classes of assets held by community banks, including, importantly, applying higher risk weightings to certain commercial real estate loans.

- 4 -

The Basel III Final Rules were effective on January 1, 2015, and the Basel III Final Rules' capital conservation buffer (as described below) will be phased in through 2019. When fully phased in, the Basel III Final Rules require banks to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% "capital conservation buffer" (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (computed as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter).

The Basel III Final Rules provide deductions from and adjustments to regulatory capital measures, and primarily to CET1, including deductions and adjustments that were not applied to reduce CET1 under historical regulatory capital rules. For example, mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities must be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. These deductions from and adjustments to regulatory capital are generally subject to a phase in period, which began in 2015 and will continue through 2018.

The Basel III Final Rules also implement a "countercyclical capital buffer," generally designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress and to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk. This buffer is a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).

Insurance of Accounts, Assessments and Regulation by the FDIC. The Bank's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC. The basic limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage is $250,000 per depositor.

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations as an insured institution, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC, subject to administrative and potential judicial hearing and review processes.

The DIF is funded by assessments on banks and other depository institutions calculated based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity (defined as Tier 1 capital). As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted a large-bank pricing assessment scheme, set a target "designated reserve ratio" (described in more detail below) of 2 percent for the DIF, and established a lower assessment rate schedule when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15 percent and, in lieu of dividends, provides for a lower assessment rate schedule, when the reserve ratio reaches 2 percent and 2.5 percent.

An institution's assessment rate depends upon the institution's assigned risk category, which is based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors. Initial base assessment rates range from 2.5 to 45 basis points. The FDIC may make the following further adjustments to an institution's initial base assessment rates: decreases for long-term unsecured debt including most senior unsecured debt and subordinated debt; increases for holding long-term unsecured debt or subordinated debt issued by other insured depository institutions; and increases for brokered deposits in excess of 10 percent of domestic deposits for institutions not well rated and well capitalized.

The Dodd-Frank Act transferred to the FDIC increased discretion with regard to managing the required amount of reserves for the DIF, or the "designated reserve ratio." Among other changes, the Dodd-Frank Act (i) raised the minimum designated reserve ratio to 1.35 percent and removed the upper limit on the designated reserve ratio, (ii) requires that the designated reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 2020, and (iii) requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion of raising the designated reserve ratio from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent &#8211; which requirement will be met through rules proposed by the FDIC during 2015. The FDIA requires that the FDIC consider the appropriate level for the designated reserve ratio on at least an annual basis. The FDIC has adopted a DIF restoration plan to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

- 5 -

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) enacted major reforms of the federal securities laws intended to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures. It impacts all companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act, including the Company. SOX creates increased responsibility for chief executive officers and chief financial officers with respect to the content of filings with the SEC. Section 404 of SOX and related SEC rules focused increased scrutiny by internal and external auditors on the Company's systems of internal controls over financial reporting, to insure that those internal controls are effective in both design and operation. SOX sets out enhanced requirements for audit committees, including independence and expertise, and it includes stronger requirements for auditor independence and limits the types of non-audit services that auditors can provide. Finally, SOX contains additional and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of securities laws.

Incentive Compensation Guidance. The FRB, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issued regulatory guidance (the Incentive Compensation Guidance) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The FRB will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Company, that are not "large, complex banking organizations." The findings will be included in reports of examination, and deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization's supervisory ratings. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization's safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, in March 2011 the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies proposed regulations that would require financial institutions with assets of at least $1 billion to disclose the structure of their incentive compensation practices and prohibit such institutions from maintaining executive compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which a company whose total consolidated assets reach or exceed $1 billion may structure compensation for its executives and will require such company to submit annual reports to the Federal Reserve regarding the company's incentive compensation. These proposed regulations incorporate the principles discussed in the Incentive Compensation Guidance. A final rule has not yet been published. Although the final rule is not expected to apply to institutions with less than $1 billion in total consolidated assets, the federal banking agencies, including the Comptroller, emphasize that all banking organizations, regardless of size, must carefully design and oversee incentive compensation policies to ensure such policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations.

Community Reinvestment Act. The Company is subject to the requirements of the CRA, which imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of their local communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of those institutions. A financial institution's efforts in meeting community credit needs are currently assessed based on specified factors. These factors also are considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility.

Confidentiality and Required Disclosures of Consumer Information. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations that address the privacy of nonpublic personal financial information of consumers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain regulations issued thereunder protect against the transfer and use by financial institutions of consumer nonpublic personal information. A financial institution must provide to its customers, at the beginning of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution's policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers' nonpublic personal financial information. These privacy provisions generally prohibit a financial institution from providing a customer's personal financial information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that the information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure.

- 6 -

The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that attempt to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank Secrecy Act requires all financial institutions to, among other things, create a system of controls designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and imposes recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The USA Patriot Act facilitates information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering, and requires financial institutions to establish anti-money laundering programs. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) sends banking regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities, and requests banks to search their records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists. If the Bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must file a suspicious activity report with the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the Treasury) and contact the FBI. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), which is a division of the Treasury, is responsible for helping to ensure that United States entities do not engage in transactions with "enemies" of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. If the Bank finds a name of an "enemy" of the United States on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze such account or place transferred funds into a blocked account, file a suspicious activity report with the Treasury and notify the FBI.

Consumer Laws and Regulations. The Company is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair Housing Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions transact business with customers. The Company must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations.

The CFPB is the federal regulatory agency responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws for institutions with more than $10 billion of assets and, to a lesser extent, smaller institutions. The CFPB supervises and regulates providers of consumer financial products and services and has rulemaking authority in connection with numerous federal consumer financial protection laws (for example, but not limited to, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act). As a smaller institution (i.e., with assets of $10 billion or less), most consumer protection aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to be applied to the Company by the FRB and to the Bank by the Comptroller. However, the CFPB may include its own examiners in regulatory examinations by a smaller institution's prudential regulators and may require smaller institutions to comply with certain CFPB reporting requirements. In addition, regulatory positions taken by the CFPB and administrative and legal precedents established by CFPB enforcement activities, including in connection with supervision of larger bank holding companies and banks, could influence how the FRB and Comptroller apply consumer protection laws and regulations to financial institutions that are not directly supervised by the CFPB. The precise effect of the CFPB's consumer protection activities on the Company cannot be forecast.

Mortgage Banking Regulation . In connection with making mortgage loans, the Bank is subject to rules and regulations that, among other things, establish standards for loan origination, prohibit discrimination, provide for inspections and appraisals of property, require credit reports on prospective borrowers, in some cases, restrict certain loan features and fix maximum interest rates and fees, require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit and settlement costs, limit payment for settlement services to the reasonable value of the services rendered and require the maintenance and disclosure of information regarding the disposition of mortgage applications based on race, gender, geographical distribution and income level. The Bank's mortgage origination activities are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and Home Ownership Equity Protection Act, and the regulations promulgated under these acts, among other additional state and federal laws, regulations and rules.

The Bank's mortgage origination activities are also subject to Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act. Certain provisions of Regulation Z require mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination, based on verified and documented information, that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Alternatively, a mortgage lender can originate "qualified mortgages", which are generally defined as mortgage loans without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, terms exceeding 30 years, and points and fees paid by a consumer equal to or less than 3% of the total loan amount. Higher-priced qualified mortgages (e.g., subprime loans) receive a rebuttable presumption of compliance with ability-to-repay rules, and other qualified mortgages (e.g., prime loans) are deemed to comply with the ability-to-repay rules. The Bank does not originate first mortgage lo ans at this time, and the first mortgages it purchases comply with Regulation Z's "qualified mortgage" rules. The Bank does originate second mortgages, or equity loans, and these loans do not conform to the qualified mortgage criteria but comply with applicable ability-to-repay rules. 

- 7 -

Volcker Rule . The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and places limits on ownership of equity investments in private equity and hedge funds (the Volcker Rule). On December 10, 2013, the U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the FRB, the FDIC, the Comptroller and the SEC) adopted final rules to implement the Volcker Rule. In relevant part, these final rules would have prohibited banking entities from owning collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by trust preferred securities (TruPS), effective July 21, 2015. However, subsequent to these final rules the U.S. financial regulatory agencies issued an interim rule effective April 1, 2014 to exempt CDOs backed by TruPS from the final rule implementing the Volcker Rule, provided that (a) the CDO was established prior to May 19, 2010, (b) the banking entity reasonably believes that the CDO's offering proceeds were used to invest primarily in TruPS issued by banks with less than $15 billion in assets, and (c) the banking entity acquired the CDO investment on or before December 10, 2013. The Company currently does not have any CDO investments, and the Company believes that its financial condition will not be significantly impacted by the Volcker Rule, the final rules or the interim rule. Smaller banks, with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less, engaged in modest proprietary trading activities for their own accounts are subject to a simplified compliance program under the final rules. Several portions of the Volcker Rule remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and legislative activity, including to further delay effectiveness of some provisions of the Volcker Rule. The Company does not expect that any delays in the effectiveness of a portion of the Volcker Rule will significantly impact its financial condition.

