 Item 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., through its Operating Subsidiaries, is a leading middle-market investment bank and full service broker-dealer. With roots tracing back to 1881, the Company is engaged in a broad range of activities in the securities industry, including retail securities brokerage, institutional sales and trading, investment banking (both corporate and public finance), research, market-making, trust services and investment advisory and asset management services. The Company owns, directly or through subsidiaries, Oppenheimer &#38; Co. Inc. ("Oppenheimer"), a New York-based securities broker-dealer, Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc. ("OAM"), a New York-based investment adviser, Freedom Investments, Inc. ("Freedom"), a discount securities broker-dealer based in New Jersey, Oppenheimer Trust Company ("Oppenheimer Trust"), a Delaware limited purpose bank, OPY Credit Corp., a New York corporation organized to trade and clear syndicated corporate loans, and Oppenheimer Multifamily Housing &#38; Healthcare Finance, Inc. ("OMHHF"), a Federal Housing Administration ("FHA")-approved mortgage company based in Pennsylvania. The Company's international businesses are carried on through Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. (United Kingdom), Oppenheimer Investments Asia Limited (Hong Kong), and Oppenheimer Israel (OPCO) Ltd. (Israel). 

Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. was originally incorporated under the laws of British Columbia. Pursuant to its Certificate and Articles of Incorporation, effective on May 11, 2005, the Company's legal existence was continued under the Canada Business Corporations Act. Effective May 11, 2009, the Company changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from the federal jurisdiction of Canada to the State of Delaware in the United States with the approval of its shareholders. 

PRIVATE CLIENT 

Through its Private Client Division, Oppenheimer provides a comprehensive array of financial services through a network of approximately 1,233 &#32;financial advisers in 85 &#32;offices located throughout the United States. Clients include high-net-worth individuals and families, corporate executives, and small and mid-sized businesses. Clients may choose a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and/or investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company held client assets under administration of approximately $78.7 billion . Oppenheimer provides the following private client services: 

Full-Service Brokerage &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer offers full-service brokerage covering a broad array of investment alternatives including exchange-traded and over-the-counter corporate equity and debt securities, money market instruments, exchange-traded options and futures contracts, municipal bonds, mutual funds, and unit investment trusts. A substantial portion of Oppenheimer's revenue is derived from commissions from private clients through accounts with transaction-based pricing. Brokerage commissions are charged on investment products in accordance with a schedule which Oppenheimer has formulated. Discounts are available to and can be negotiated with customers based on transaction size and volume as well as a number of other factors. 

Wealth Planning &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer also offers financial and wealth planning services which include asset management, individual and corporate retirement solutions, including insurance and annuity products, IRAs and 401(k) plans, U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses, education savings programs, and trust and fiduciary services to individual and corporate clients. 

Margin Lending &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer extends credit to its customers, collateralized by securities and cash in the customer's account, for a portion of the purchase price, and receives income from interest charged on such extensions of credit. The customer is charged for such margin financing at interest rates derived from Oppenheimer's rate. 

ASSET MANAGEMENT 

The Company offers a wide range of investment advisory, portfolio management and financial planning services to its retail and institutional clients through proprietary and third party distribution channels. Clients include high-net-worth individuals and families, foundations and endowments, insurance companies, and trust and pension funds. Investment management capabilities include equity, fixed income, balanced and alternative investments, which are offered through vehicles such as privately managed accounts, and retail and institutional separate accounts. At December 31, 2015 , the Company had $24.1 billion &#32;of client assets under management ("AUM") in fee-based programs. The Company's asset management services include: 

Separately Managed Accounts &#8211; &#32;The Company provides clients with three fee-based programs: (i) Investment Advisory Services through which clients may select among those managers reviewed and recommended by the Company; (ii) Strategic Asset Review dual contract program through which clients may select among those managers available; and (iii) Unified Managed Account which allows multiple investment managers, mutual funds and ETFs to be combined in a single custodial account. 

Portfolio Advisory Services &#32;&#8211; The Company offers a fee-based mutual fund program, Portfolio Advisory Services, where clients may choose long-term strategic asset allocation programs among mutual funds approved by the Company. 

Oppenheimer Investment Advisory Services &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer Investment Advisers offers internal portfolio managers servicing high-net-worth individuals, retirement plans, endowments, foundations and trusts using both taxable and non-taxable fixed income strategies. 

Discretionary Portfolio Management &#8211; &#32;Through its Omega and Fahnestock Asset Management programs, Oppenheimer offers discretionary fee-based investment programs managed by Oppenheimer advisers with a client-focused approach to money management, servicing high-net-worth individuals, families, endowments and foundations, and institutions. In addition, the Alpha programs offer similar services as a commission-based program. 

Fee-Based Non-Discretionary Accounts &#32;&#8211; Under Oppenheimer's Preference Program, Oppenheimer provides non-discretionary investment advisory services to high-net-worth individuals and families who pay an advisory fee on a quarterly basis. The program includes features such as initial portfolio consultation, quarterly performance reporting and periodic consultation. 

Institutional Investment Management &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer Investment Management, LLC ("OIM") provides fixed income management and solutions to institutional investors including Taft-Hartley funds, public pension funds, corporate pension funds, insurance companies, and foundations and endowments. 

Alternative Investments &#8211; &#32;The Company offers high-net-worth and institutional investors the opportunity to participate in a wide range of non-traditional investment strategies. Strategies include single manager hedge funds, fund of funds and private equity vehicles. For proprietary funds, the Company, through its subsidiaries, acts as general partner in these investments and typically earns 1% to 2% per year in management fees and 20% performance (or incentive) fees. The fees which the Company receives are shared in a pre-determined manner with the portfolio manager. 

CAPITAL MARKETS 

Investment Banking 

Oppenheimer employs approximately 100 investment banking professionals throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, Israel and Asia. Oppenheimer's investment banking division provides strategic advisory services and capital markets products to emerging growth and middle market businesses. The investment banking industry coverage groups focus on certain sectors including consumer and business services, energy, financial institutions and real estate, healthcare, industrial growth and services, and technology, media and communications. Oppenheimer's industry coverage teams partner with Oppenheimer's Mergers and Acquisitions practice as well as Equities, Leveraged Finance and Fixed Income platforms to provide its clients with tailored advice and recommendations. In addition, Oppenheimer has extensive experience working with financial sponsors and maintains a dedicated Financial Sponsor group. 

Mergers and Acquisitions &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer advises buyers and sellers on sales, divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, tender offers, privatizations, restructurings, spin-offs and joint ventures. Oppenheimer provides dedicated senior banker focus to clients throughout the financial advisory process, which combines our structuring and negotiating expertise with our industry knowledge, extensive relationships, and capital markets capabilities. 

Equities &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer provides capital raising solutions for corporate clients through initial public offerings, follow-on offerings, equity-linked offerings, private investments in public entities, and private placements. Oppenheimer focuses on emerging companies in growth industries, including consumer and business services, energy, financial institutions and real estate, healthcare, industrial growth and services, and technology, media and communications. 

Leverage Finance and Fixed Income &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer offers a full range of debt financing for emerging growth and middle market companies and financial sponsors. Oppenheimer focuses on structuring and distributing public and private debt in leveraged finance transactions, including leveraged buyouts, acquisitions, growth capital financings, recapitalizations and Chapter 11 exit financings. Oppenheimer also participates in high yield debt and fixed and floating-rate senior and subordinated debt offerings. In addition, Oppenheimer advises on bond financing alternatives for both sovereign and corporate emerging market issuers. 

Equities Capital Markets 

Institutional Equity Sales and Trading &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer provides execution services and access to all major U.S. equity exchanges and alternative execution venues, in addition to capital markets/origination, various arbitrage strategies, portfolio and electronic trading. Oppenheimer offers a suite of quantitative and algorithmic trading solutions to access liquidity in global markets. Oppenheimer's clients include domestic and international investors such as investment advisers, banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, and pension and profit sharing plans, attracted by the insights and market intelligence provided by sales and trading staff as well as by the quality of execution (measured by volume, timing and price), and competitive negotiated commission rates. 

Equity Research &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer employs 40 senior analysts covering over 600 equity securities worldwide, and over 100 dedicated equity research sales professionals. Oppenheimer provides regular research reports, notes and earnings updates and also sponsors numerous research conferences where the management of covered companies can meet with investors in a group format as well as in one-on-one meetings. Oppenheimer also arranges for company managements to meet with interested investors through arranged meetings wherein management representatives travel to various sites to meet with Oppenheimer representatives and with investors. Oppenheimer's analysts use a variety of quantitative and qualitative tools, integrating field analysis, proprietary channel checks and ongoing dialogue with the managements of the companies they cover in order to produce reports and studies on individual companies and industry developments. 

Equity, Debt and Index Options &#8211; &#32; O ppenheimer offers extensive equity and index options strategies for investors seeking to manage risk and optimize returns within the equities market. Oppenheimer's experienced professionals have expertise in many listed derivative products designed to serve the diverse needs of its institutional, corporate and private client base. 

Convertible Bonds &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer commits dedicated personnel to serve the convertible markets, offering expertise in the sales, trading and analysis of U.S. domestic convertible bonds, convertible preferred shares and warrants, with a focus on minimizing transaction costs and maximizing liquidity. In addition Oppenheimer offers hedged (typically long convertible bonds and short equities) positions to its clients on an integrated trade basis. 

Event Driven Sales and Trading &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer has a dedicated team focused on providing specialized advice and trade execution expertise to institutional clients with an interest in investment strategies such as: merger arbitrage; Dutch tender offers; splits and spin-offs; and recapitalizations, corporate reorganizations, and other event-driven trading strategies. 

Debt Capital Markets 

Fixed Income &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer offers trading and a high degree of sales support in highly rated ("high grade") corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, government and agency bonds and the sovereign and corporate debt of industrialized and emerging market countries, which may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Since June 2009, Oppenheimer has participated in auctions for U.S. government securities conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on behalf of the U.S. Treasury. Oppenheimer trades non-investment grade public and private debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, sovereign and corporate debt of industrialized and emerging market countries and distressed securities both for its own account as well as for institutional clients qualified to sustain the risks associated with such securities. Oppenheimer also publishes research with respect to a number of such securities. Risk of loss upon default by the borrower is significantly greater with respect to unrated or less than investment grade corporate debt securities than with other corporate debt securities. These securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. These issuers usually have high levels of indebtedness and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. There is a limited market for some of these securities and market quotes are available only from a small number of dealers. 

Fixed Income Research &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer has a total of seven fixed income research professionals. There are three dedicated research analysts covering companies that have issued high yield bonds in the United States. Oppenheimer's high yield corporate bond research effort is designed to identify debt issues that provide a combination of high yield plus capital appreciation over the short to medium term. There is one mortgage backed securities analyst focused on the detailed analysis of individual agency and non-agency mortgage backed securities. There are two professionals covering emerging market fixed income issuers, including a publishing research analyst focused exclusively on sovereign bonds and a strategist providing commentary on emerging market corporate bond issuers. The Firm also has a municipal bond research analyst publishing reports on the tax-exempt municipal bond market. 

Public Finance &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer's public finance department advises and raises capital for state and local governments, public agencies, private developers and other borrowers. The group assists its clients by developing and executing capital financing plans that meet our clients' objectives and by maintaining strong national institutional and retail securities distribution capabilities. Public finance bankers have expertise in specific areas, including local governments and municipalities, primary and secondary schools, post-secondary and private schools, state and local transportation entities, health care institutions, senior-living facilities, public utility providers and project financing. In addition to underwriting longer-term municipal securities, Oppenheimer also provides advice to municipal issuers with respect to the timing and issuance of short-term municipal notes, which Oppenheimer then underwrites and distributes as well as short-term notes for bridge financing of real estate projects. 

Municipal Trading &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer has regionally based municipal bond trading desks serving retail financial advisers within their regions. These desks serve Oppenheimer's financial advisers in supporting their high-net-worth clients' needs for taxable and non-taxable municipal securities. The Firm also maintains a dedicated institutional municipal bond sales and trading effort focused on serving mid-tier and national institutional accounts. The Institutional desks assist in underwriting municipal securities originated by its Public Finance Department. These desks serve Oppenheimer's financial advisers in supporting their high-net-worth clients' needs for taxable and non-taxable municipal securities. 

Proprietary Trading 

In the regular course of its business, Oppenheimer takes securities positions as a market maker and/or principal to facilitate customer transactions and for investment purposes. In making markets and when trading for its own account, Oppenheimer exposes its own capital to the risk of fluctuations in market value. In 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") that proposes to prohibit proprietary trading by certain financial institutions (the "Volcker Rule") except where facilitating customer trades. The Volcker Rule went into effect in July 2015 and does not impact the Company's business or operations as it applies to banks and other subsidiaries of bank holding companies only. 

Equities &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer acts as both principal and agent in the execution of its customers' orders. Oppenheimer buys, sells and maintains an inventory of a security in order to "make a market" in that security. In executing customer orders for securities in which it does not make a market, Oppenheimer generally charges a commission and acts as agent, or will act as principal by marking the security up or down in a riskless transaction. However, when an order is in a security in which Oppenheimer makes a market, Oppenheimer normally acts as principal and purchases from or sells to its brokerage customers at a price which is approximately equal to the current inter-dealer market price plus or minus a mark-up or mark-down. The stocks in which Oppenheimer makes a market may also include those of issuers which are followed by Oppenheimer's research department. 

Fixed Income &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer trades and holds positions in public and private debt securities, including non-investment grade and distressed corporate securities as well as municipal securities. There may be a limited market for some of these securities and market quotes may be available from only a small number of dealers or inter-dealer brokers. While Oppenheimer normally holds such securities for a short period of time in order to facilitate client transactions, there is a risk of loss upon default by the borrower or from a change in interest rates affecting the value of the security. These issuers may have high levels of indebtedness and be sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates. 

Through the use of securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("repurchase agreements") and securities purchased under agreements to resell ("reverse repurchase agreements"), the Company acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. 

Proprietary Trading and Investment Activities &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer holds positions in its trading accounts in securities in which it does not make a market and may engage from time to time in other types of principal transactions in securities. Oppenheimer has several trading departments including a convertible bond department, a risk arbitrage department, a corporate bond department, a municipal bond department, a government/mortgage backed securities department, and a department that underwrites and trades U.S. government agency issues, taxable corporate bonds, preferred shares, unit investment trusts and short term debt instruments. These departments continually purchase and sell securities and make markets in order to make a profit on the inter-dealer spread or to profit from investment. Although Oppenheimer from time to time holds an inventory of securities, more typically, it seeks to match customer buy and sell orders. In addition, Oppenheimer and OAM hold proprietary positions in equity or fixed income securities in which it may not act as a dealer. 

The size of its securities positions vary substantially based upon economic and market conditions, allocations of capital, underwriting commitments and trading volume. Also, the aggregate value of inventories of securities which Oppenheimer may carry is limited by the Net Capital Rule. See "Regulatory Capital Requirements," below and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." 

The Company, through its subsidiaries, holds investments as general partner in a range of investment partnerships (hedge funds, fund of funds, private equity partnerships and real estate partnerships) which are offered to Oppenheimer hedge fund-qualified clients and on a limited basis to qualified clients of other broker-dealers. 

Securities Lending 

In connection with both its trading and brokerage activities, Oppenheimer borrows securities to cover short sales and to complete transactions in which customers have failed to deliver securities by the required settlement date and lends securities to other brokers and dealers for similar purposes. Oppenheimer earns interest on its cash collateral provided and pays interest on the cash collateral received less a rebate earned for lending securities. 

CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES 

Oppenheimer &#38; Co. Inc. 

Oppenheimer is a registered broker-dealer in securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and transacts business on various exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Oppenheimer engages in a broad range of activities in the securities industry, including retail securities brokerage, institutional sales and trading, investment banking (both corporate and public finance), underwritings, research, market-making, and investment advisory and asset management services. Oppenheimer provides its services from offices located throughout the United States. 

Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc. 

OAM is registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Advisers Act"). OAM's investment advisory business provides investment advice to clients through separate accounts and wrap fee programs. 

OPY Credit Corp. 

The Company reached an agreement with RBS Citizens, NA, now Citizens Bank, NA, including its broker-dealer affiliates ("Citizens"), that was announced in July 2012, whereby the Company, through OPY Credit Corp., will introduce lending opportunities to Citizens, which Citizens can elect to accept and in which the Company will participate in the fees earned from any related commitment by Citizens. The Company can also, in certain circumstances, assume a portion of Citizen's syndication and lending risk under such loans, and if it does so it shall be obligated to secure such obligations via a cash deposit determined through risk based formulas. Neither the Company nor Citizens is obligated to make any specific loan or to commit any minimum amount of lending capacity to the relationship. The agreement also calls for Citizens and the Company at their option to jointly participate in the arrangement of various loan syndications. At December 31, 2015 , there were no outstanding loans in place. 

Oppenheimer Trust Company of Delaware Inc. 

Oppenheimer Trust offers a wide variety of trust services to clients of Oppenheimer. This includes custody services, advisory services and specialized servicing options for clients. At December 31, 2015 , Oppenheimer Trust held custodial assets of approximately $457.4 million. See "Other Requirements," below. 

Oppenheimer Multifamily Housing &#38; Healthcare Finance, Inc. 

OMHHF is engaged in the business of originating and servicing Federal Housing Administration ("FHA")-insured multifamily and healthcare facility loans and securitizing these loans into Ginnie Mae ("GNMA") mortgage backed securities. OMHHF also offers mortgage services to developers of commercial properties including apartments, elderly housing and nursing homes that satisfy FHA criteria. OMHHF maintains a mortgage servicing portfolio for which it provides a full array of services, including the collection of mortgage payments from mortgagors which are passed on to the mortgage holders and construction loan management. 

ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATIONS 

Administration and operations personnel are responsible for the processing of securities transactions; the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities; the maintenance of internal financial controls; accounting functions; custody of customers' securities; the handling of margin accounts for Oppenheimer and its correspondents; and general office services. 

Oppenheimer executes its own and certain of its correspondents' securities transactions on all United States exchanges as well as many non-U.S. exchanges and in the over-the-counter market. Oppenheimer clears all of its securities transactions (i.e., it delivers securities that it has sold, receives securities that it has purchased and transfers related funds) through its own facilities and through memberships in various clearing corporations and custodian banks in the United States. The Company began clearing its non-U.S. international equities business carried on by Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. through BNP Paribas Securities Services and Oppenheimer through BNP Securities Corp. Oppenheimer has a multi-currency platform which enables it to facilitate client trades in securities denominated in foreign currencies. Oppenheimer operates as an Introducing Broker and introduces its client commodities transactions through a correspondent firm on a fully disclosed basis. Through this arrangement, Oppenheimer offers full commodity services on all exchanges. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015 , the Company employed 3,290 &#32;employees ( 3,230 &#32;full-time and 60 &#32;part-time), of whom approximately 1,233 &#32;were financial advisers. 

COMPETITION 

Oppenheimer encounters intense competition in all aspects of the securities business and competes directly with other securities firms, a significant number of which have substantially greater resources and offer a wider range of financial services. In addition, there has been increasing competition from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, private equity and financial sponsors and certain major corporations that have entered the securities industry through acquisition, and from other entities. Additionally, foreign-based securities firms and commercial banks regularly offer their services in performing a variety of investment banking functions including mergers and acquisitions advice, leveraged buy-out financing, merchant banking, and bridge financing, all in direct competition with U.S. broker-dealers. 

In recent years, several key market events drastically altered the landscape for financial institutions. Voluntary and involuntary consolidations as well as government assistance provided to U.S. financial institutions has led to a greater concentration of capital and market share among large financial institutions. This, coupled with the ability of these financial institutions to finance their securities businesses with capital from other businesses, such as commercial banking deposits, as well as such institutions deriving an aura of stability in the mind of the public ("too big to fail"), may put the Company at a significant competitive disadvantage. 

The Company believes that the principal factors affecting competition in the securities and investment banking industries are the quality and ability of professional personnel and relative prices of services and products offered. In some instances, competition within the industry can be impacted by the credit ratings assigned to the firm offering services when potential clients are making a determination of acceptable counterparties. The ability of securities industry participants to offer credit facilities to potential investment banking clients may affect the assignment of individual transactions. The Company's ability to compete depends substantially on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Oppenheimer and its competitors employ advertising and direct solicitation of potential customers in order to increase business and furnish investment research publications in an effort to retain existing and attract potential clients. Many of Oppenheimer's competitors engage in these programs more extensively than Oppenheimer. Increasingly, securities firms are providing automated investment advisory services that employ algorithms to determine recommended portfolio allocations at a much lower price point. It is early and not yet clear whether this type of investment advisory service will provide meaningful competition to the full service investment model. 

BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLAN 

The Company has a business continuity plan in place which is designed to enable it to continue to operate and provide services to its clients under a variety of circumstances in which one or more events may make one or more firm operating locations unavailable due to a local, regional or national emergency, or due to the failure of one or more systems that the Company relies upon to provide the services that it routinely provides to its clients, employees and various business partners and counterparties. The plan covers all business areas of the Company and provides contingency plans for technology, staffing, equipment, and communication to employees, clients and counterparties. While the plan is intended to address many types of business continuity issues, there could be certain occurrences which, by their very nature are unpredictable, and can occur in a manner that is outside of our planning guidelines and could render the Company's estimates of timing for recovery inaccurate. Under all circumstances, it is the Company's intention to remain in business and to provide ongoing investment services as if no disruption had occurred. 

Oppenheimer maintains its headquarters and principal operating locations in New York City. In order to provide continuity for these services, the Company operates a primary data center as well as maintains back-up facilities (information technology, operations and data processing) in sites with requisite communications back-up systems. These facilities are maintained in multiple locations and, in addition, the Company occupies significant office facilities in locations around the United States which could, in an emergency, house dislocated staff members for a short or intermediate time frame. Oppenheimer relies on public utilities for power and phone services, industry specific entities for ultimate custody of client securities and market operations, and various industry vendors for services that are significant and important to its business for the execution, clearance and custody of client holdings, for the pricing and valuing of client holdings, and for permitting our Company's employees to communicate on an efficient basis. The Company's headquarters and the primary location for its technology infrastructure are both supported by emergency electric generator back-up. All of these service providers have assured the Company that they have made plans for providing continued service in the case of an unexpected event that might disrupt their services. 

The fourth quarter of 2012 was impacted by Superstorm Sandy which occurred on October 29 th &#32;causing the Company to vacate its two principal offices in downtown Manhattan and displaced 800 of the Company's employees including substantially all of its capital markets, operations and headquarters staff for in excess of 30 days. During the displacement period, the Company successfully implemented its business continuity plan by relocating personnel from both of its downtown Manhattan locations into other branch offices and back-up facilities in the region. Other than the closure of the financial markets for two business days, the Company was able to successfully clear and settle open trades that took place prior to the storm and to get its trading, operations, technology, and other support functions mobilized to process business once the financial markets reopened. The Company was able to return to its headquarters facilities beginning in December 2012 and the locations returned to full utility power in March 2013. 

CYBERSECURITY 

Cybersecurity presents significant challenges to the business community in general, as well as to the financial services industry. Increasingly, actors, both domestically and internationally, attempt to steal personal data and/or interrupt the normal functioning of businesses through accessing individuals&#8217; and company files and equipment connected to the internet. Recent incidents have reflected the increasing sophistication of intruders and their intent to steal information as well as funds and securities through instructions seemingly from authorized parties but in fact from parties intent on attempting to steal. Regulators are increasingly requiring companies to provide increased levels of sophisticated defenses. The Company maintains vigilance and ongoing planning and systems to prevent any such attack from disrupting its services to clients as well as to prevent any loss of data concerning our clients, their financial affairs, as well as Company privileged information. The Company has implemented new systems to detect and defend from such attacks and has appointed a Corporate Information Security Officer and put in place a department of dedicated staff to provide ongoing development and oversight of the Company's systems and defenses. See Item 1A under the caption "Risk Factors - The Company may be exposed to damage to its business or its reputation by Cybersecurity incidents." 

REGULATION 

Self-Regulatory Organization Membership &#32;- Oppenheimer is a member firm of the following self-regulatory organizations ("SROs"): the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), the Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., known as ICE Futures U.S., the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") and the National Futures Association ("NFA"). In addition, Oppenheimer has satisfied the requirements of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB") for effecting customer transactions in municipal securities. Freedom is also a member of FINRA. Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") in the United Kingdom and the Jersey Financial Services Commission ("JFSC") in the Isle of Jersey. Oppenheimer Investments Asia Limited is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission ("SFC") in Hong Kong. Oppenheimer is also a member of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ("SIFMA"), a non-profit organization that represents the shared interests of participants in the global financial markets. The Company has access to a number of regional and national markets and is required to adhere to their applicable rules and regulations. 

Securities Regulation &#32;- The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. The SEC is the Federal agency charged with administration of the Federal securities laws. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs such as FINRA and the NFA. FINRA has been designated as the primary regulator of Oppenheimer and Freedom with respect to securities and option trading activities and the NFA has been designated as Oppenheimer's primary regulator with respect to commodities activities. SROs adopt rules (subject to approval by the SEC or the CFTC, as the case may be) governing the industry and conduct periodic examinations of Oppenheimer's and Freedom's operations. In recent years, the SEC has increased its programs for examinations of registrants, even where such examinations overlap with examinations conducted by other entities. Securities firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in the states in which they do business. Oppenheimer and Freedom are each registered as a broker-dealer in the 50 states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. 

Broker-dealer Regulation &#32;- The regulations to which broker-dealers are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, the use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC has adopted rules requiring underwriters to ensure that municipal securities issuers provide current financial information and imposing limitations on political contributions to municipal issuers by brokers, dealers and other municipal finance professionals. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC and by SROs, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers. The SEC, SROs (including FINRA) and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censure, fine, issuance of cease and desist orders or suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers, or employees. These administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures of time and money and can have an adverse impact on the reputation of a broker-dealer. The principal purpose of regulating and disciplining broker-dealers is to protect customers and the securities markets rather than to protect creditors and shareholders. 

Regulation NMS and Regulation SHO have substantially affected the trading of equity securities. These regulations were intended to increase transparency in the markets and have acted to further reduce spreads and, with competition from electronic marketplaces, to reduce commission rates paid by institutional investors. These rules have also reduced liquidity in some markets under some circumstances. 

Oppenheimer and certain of its affiliates are also subject to regulation by the SEC and under certain state laws in connection with its business as an investment adviser. The SEC has announced its intention to place additional oversight and scrutiny over dual registrants such as the Company, where the registrant conducts business as a broker-dealer and investment adviser. 

The SEC has passed a requirement for custodians of securities on behalf of investment advisers, such as the Company, to be subject to an annual "surprise" examination of custodian assets and to deliver a control report to its clients, issued by a qualified accounting firm, describing its processes and controls affecting custody operations, which report was issued by the Company for the first time on September 12, 2010. The Company's most recent report was timely filed on November 25, 2015. 

Margin lending by Oppenheimer is subject to the margin rules of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and FINRA. Under such rules, Oppenheimer is limited in the amount it may lend in connection with certain purchases of securities and is also required to impose certain maintenance requirements on the amount of securities and cash held in margin accounts. In addition, Oppenheimer may (and currently does) impose more restrictive margin requirements than required by such rules. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 effected significant changes to corporate governance, auditing requirements and corporate reporting. This law generally applies to all companies, including the Company, with equity or debt securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The Company has taken numerous actions, and incurred substantial expenses, since the passage of the legislation to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations promulgated by the SEC and other corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. On May 14, 2013, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) released an updated version of its Internal Control - Integrated Framework (the "2013 Framework"), which supersedes the original framework that was developed in 1992. The Company adopted the 2013 Framework on December 15, 2014 as a basis for their compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 &#32;was effective. See Item 8 under the caption "Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting." 

In July 2010, Congress enacted extensive legislation entitled the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in which it mandated that the SEC and other regulators conduct comprehensive studies and issue new regulations based on their findings to control and monitor the activities of financial institutions in order to protect the financial system, the investing public and consumers from issues and failures that occurred in the 2008-9 financial crisis. All the relevant studies have been completed and they are widely expected to extensively impact the regulation and practices of financial institutions including the Company. The changes are likely to significantly reduce leverage available to financial institutions and to increase transparency to regulators and investors of risks taken by such institutions. It is impossible to presently predict the effect of such rulemaking, although proposals that have been implemented or are being considered in the U.S. and Europe include creating a new regulator for certain activities, regulating and/or prohibiting proprietary trading for certain deposit taking institutions, controlling the amount and timing of compensation to "highly paid" employees, creating new regulations around financial transactions with consumers requiring the adoption of a uniform fiduciary standard of care of broker-dealers and investment advisers providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers, increasing the disclosures provided to clients, and creating a tax on securities transactions. The Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2015. In December 2012, France began applying a .2% transaction tax on financial transactions in American Depository Receipts of French companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Italy implemented its own transaction tax on financial transactions in early 2013. The European Markets are attempting to enact a transaction tax on financial transactions that would be imposed on all financial transactions originating in the Euro zone. If and when enacted, such regulations will likely increase compliance costs and reduce returns earned by financial service providers and intensify compliance overall. 

The Department of Labor of the United States has proposed rules that would create fiduciary liability to providers of services to retirement plans including pension plans, 401(k) plans, IRAs and other plans regulated by the Department of Labor. The SEC is also considering rules to cover relationships between retirement plans and service providers. The SEC is also considering rules that would make broker-dealers fiduciaries in virtually all of their relationships with clients. The Department of Labor has received extensive adverse comments on its proposed rules including from committees of Congress. It appears, however, that new rules will be enacted in 2016. These rules will modify the current interaction between service providers and retirement plans. The impact of such rules is impossible to predict but it is likely to affect the pricing of services and produce increased liabilities to service providers. 

In July 2014, the SEC adopted amendments to the rules that govern money market mutual funds. The amendments make structural and operational reforms to address risks of excessive withdrawals over relatively short time frames by investors from money market funds, while preserving the benefits of the funds. Oppenheimer does not sponsor any money market funds. Oppenheimer utilizes such funds to a small extent for its own investment purposes, and as a result of the new rules, has extensively limited the availability of money market funds to its clients. Instead the Company now recommends FDIC short-term bank deposits alternatives as a cash sweep investments. 

Effective July 1, 2014, certain final rules issued by the SEC regarding the mandatory registration of municipal advisers became effective. These rules specify which activities will be covered by the fiduciary duty of a municipal adviser to its government client imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, may result in the need for new written representations by issuers, and may limit the manner in which we, in our capacity as an underwriter or in our other professional roles, interact with municipal issuers. Oppenheimer registered as a municipal adviser and by virtue of such registration is now subject to additional regulation and oversight in respect of its municipal finance business. The SEC recently announced that it will undertake a two-year review of municipal advisers. Additionally, forthcoming rulemaking by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board may cause further changes to the manner in which a state or local government is able to interact with outside finance professionals. These new rules impact the nature of Oppenheimer's interactions with public finance clients, and may have a negative short-term impact on the volume of public finance transactions, while the industry adapts to the new rules. 

It is difficult to predict the nature of the final regulations and their impact on the business of the Company. The impact of any of, or more than one of, the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of the rule-making described above remains under consideration and has been subject to numerous changes and postponements in both the requirements of such rules and the implementation date(s). 

Trust Company Regulation &#8211; &#32;Oppenheimer Trust is a limited purpose trust company organized under the laws of Delaware and is regulated by the Office of the State Banking Commissioner. 

REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

As registered broker-dealers and member firms regulated by FINRA, Oppenheimer and Freedom are subject to certain net capital requirements pursuant to Rule 15c3-1 (the "Net Capital Rule") promulgated under the Exchange Act. The Net Capital Rule, which specifies minimum net capital requirements for registered brokers and dealers, is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer and requires that at least a minimum part of its assets be kept in liquid form. 

Oppenheimer elects to compute net capital under the alternative method of calculation permitted by the Net Capital Rule. (Freedom computes net capital under the basic formula as provided by the Net Capital Rule.) Under the alternative method, Oppenheimer is required to maintain a minimum "net capital", as defined in the Net Capital Rule, at least equal to 2% of the amount of its "aggregate debit items" computed in accordance with the Formula for Determination of Reserve Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3 under the Exchange Act) or $1.5 million, whichever is greater. "Aggregate debit items" are assets that have as their source transactions with customers, primarily margin loans. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or expulsion by FINRA, the SEC and other regulatory bodies and ultimately may require its liquidation. The Net Capital Rule also prohibits payments of dividends, redemption of stock and the prepayment of subordinated indebtedness if net capital thereafter would be less than 5% of aggregate debit items (or 7% of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder, if greater) and payments in respect of principal of subordinated indebtedness if net capital thereafter would be less than 5% of aggregate debit items (or 6% of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations thereunder, if greater). The Net Capital Rule also provides that the total outstanding principal amounts of a broker-dealer's indebtedness under certain subordination agreements (the proceeds of which are included in its net capital) may not exceed 70% of the sum of the outstanding principal amounts of all subordinated indebtedness included in net capital, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings and other capital accounts for a period in excess of 90 days. 

Net capital is essentially defined in the Net Capital Rule as net worth (assets minus liabilities), plus qualifying subordinated borrowings minus certain mandatory deductions that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and deductions for certain operating charges. The Net Capital Rule values certain other assets, such as a firm's positions in securities, conservatively. Among these deductions are adjustments (referred to as "haircuts") in the market value of securities to reflect the possibility of a market decline prior to disposition. 

Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit those operations of the brokerage subsidiaries of the Company that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities and the financing of customer account balances, and also could restrict the Company's ability to withdraw capital from its brokerage subsidiaries, which in turn could limit the Company's ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of its outstanding capital stock. Under the Net Capital Rule, broker-dealers are required to maintain certain records and provide the SEC with quarterly reports with respect to, among other things, significant movements of capital, including transfers to a holding company parent or other affiliate. The SEC and/or SROs may in certain circumstances restrict the Company's brokerage subsidiaries' ability to withdraw excess net capital and transfer it to the Company or to other Operating Subsidiaries or to expand the Company's business. 

Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. is authorized by the FCA of the United Kingdom to provide investment services under the Markets of Financial Instruments Directive ("MiFID"). New Basel III requirements being implemented in the European Union have changed how capital adequacy is reported under the Capital Requirements Directive ("CRD IV"), effective January 1, 2014, for Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. There are three capital ratios Oppenheimer Europe Ltd. must meet: 1) Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5%; 2) Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6.0%; and 3) Total Capital ratio of 8.0%. 

Oppenheimer Investments Asia Limited was approved by the SFC to place securities of U.S. listed companies with institutional clients and to provide corporate finance advisory services to Hong Kong institutional clients. Oppenheimer Investments Asia Limited is required to maintain Required Liquid Capital of the greater of HKD 3.0 million or 5% of Adjusted Liabilities as defined by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Financial Resources Rules. 

OMHHF was approved to be a non-supervised HUD mortgagee under Title II of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"). To maintain its status as an approved lender for HUD, OMHHF is required to meet and maintain various eligibility criteria established by HUD, such as minimum net worth, operational liquidity and collateral requirements. At December 31, 2015 , OMHHF was required to maintain a minimum net worth of $2.5 million. 

See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;appearing in Item 8 for further information on the Company's regulatory capital requirements. 

OTHER REQUIREMENTS 

Senior Secured Notes 

On April 12, 2011, the Company completed the private placement of $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Senior Secured Notes due April 15, 2018 (the "Notes") at par. The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on April 15 th &#32;and October 15 th . On April 15, 2014, the Company partially retired and redeemed the Notes and $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes remains outstanding. 

The indenture for the Notes contains covenants which place restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of dividends, sale of assets, mergers and acquisitions and the granting of liens. The Notes provide for events of default including nonpayment, misrepresentation, breach of covenants and bankruptcy. The Company's obligations under the Notes are guaranteed, subject to certain limitations. These guarantees may be shared, on a senior basis, under certain circumstances, with newly incurred debt outstanding in the future. At December 31, 2015 , the Company was in compliance with all of its covenants. On June 17, 2015, S&#38;P affirmed the Company's and its Notes' "B" rating and affirmed its stable outlook on the Notes. On December 28, 2015, Moody's Corporation affirmed the Company's 'B2' Corporate Family rating and 'B2' rating on the Notes and revised its outlook from stable to positive. 

Other debt 

Through OMHHF, which is engaged in commercial mortgage origination and servicing, the Company utilizes an uncommitted warehouse facility line through PNC Bank ("PNC") under which OMHHF pledges FHA-guaranteed mortgages for a period averaging 15 business days and PNC table funds the principal payment to the mortgagee. The obligations of OMHHF under this facility are guaranteed by OMHHF&#8217;s parent, E.A. Viner International Co. OMHHF repays PNC upon the securitization of the mortgage by the GNMA and the delivery of the security to the counter-party for payment pursuant to a contemporaneous sale on the date the mortgage is securitized. The Company's ability to originate mortgage loans depends upon our ability to secure and maintain these types of short-term financings on acceptable terms. 

Oppenheimer and Freedom are each members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), which provides, in the event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer, protection for customers' accounts (including the customer accounts of other securities firms when it acts on their behalf as a clearing broker) held by the firm of up to $500,000 for each customer, subject to a limitation of $250,000 for claims for cash balances. SIPC is funded through assessments on registered broker-dealers. In addition, Oppenheimer has purchased additional "excess of SIPC" policy protection from certain underwriters at Lloyd's of London of an additional $99.5 million (and $900,000 for claims for cash balances) per customer. The "excess of SIPC" policy has an overall aggregate limit of liability of $400.0 million. The Company has entered into an indemnity agreement with Lloyd's of London pursuant to which the Company has agreed to indemnify Lloyd's of London for losses incurred by Lloyd's under the policy. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company's principal place of business is at 85 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004 and its telephone number is (212) 668-8000. The Company's internet address is http://www.opco.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and other SEC filings and all amendments to those reports within 24 hours of such material being electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

You may read and copy this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain copies by mail from the Public Reference Room of the SEC at prescribed rates. To obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC's internet website is http://www.sec.gov . 

