 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

OSI Systems, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is a vertically integrated designer and manufacturer of specialized electronic systems and components for critical applications. We sell our products and provide related services in diversified markets, including homeland security, healthcare, defense and aerospace. Our company was originally incorporated in 1987 in California. In March 2010, we reincorporated our company in the State of Delaware. Our principal office is located at 12525 Chadron Avenue, Hawthorne, California 90250. 

We have three operating divisions: (a) Security, providing security and inspection systems, turnkey security screening solutions and related services; (b) Healthcare, providing patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia delivery and ventilation systems and defibrillators; and (c) Optoelectronics and Manufacturing, providing specialized electronic components and electronic manufacturing services for the Security and Healthcare divisions, as well as to external original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") customers and end users for applications in the defense, aerospace, medical and industrial markets, among others. 

Through our Security division, we provide security screening products, and services worldwide under the "Rapiscan Systems" trade name. Rapiscan Systems products fall into the following categories: baggage and parcel inspection; cargo and vehicle inspection; hold (checked) baggage screening; people screening; radiation detection; and explosive and narcotics trace detection. In addition to these products, we provide site design, installation, training and technical support services to our customers. We also provide turnkey security screening solutions under the "S2" trade name, which can include the construction, staffing and long-term operation of security screening checkpoints, including ports and borders, for our customers. 

Through our Healthcare division, we design, manufacture, market and service patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia delivery and ventilation systems and defibrillators globally to end users under the "Spacelabs" and "Primedic" trade names, and related supplies and accessories under the names "Spacelabs" and "Statcorp Medical." These products are used by care providers in critical care, emergency and perioperative areas within hospitals as well as physicians' offices, medical clinics and ambulatory surgery centers; our defibrillators are also used in public facilities. 

Through our Optoelectronics and Manufacturing division, we design, manufacture and market optoelectronic devices and provide electronics manufacturing services globally for use in a broad range of applications, including aerospace and defense electronics, security and inspection systems, medical imaging and diagnostics, telecommunications, office automation, computer peripherals, industrial automation systems, automotive diagnostic systems, gaming systems and consumer products. We sell our optoelectronic devices primarily under the "OSI Optoelectronics" trade name and perform our electronics manufacturing services primarily under the "OSI Electronics," "APlus Products," "Altaflex," "Briton EMS" and "Union Four" trade names. We provide our optoelectronic devices and electronics manufacturing services to OEM customers and end users, as well as to our own Security and Healthcare divisions. 

In fiscal 2016, revenues from the Security division were $411.2 million, or approximately 50% of our revenues; revenues from the Healthcare division amounted to $211.5 million, or approximately 25% of our revenues; and third-party revenues from the Optoelectronics and Manufacturing division were $207.0 million, or approximately 25% of our revenues. See note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information concerning reporting segments and geographic areas. 

Recent Developments 

Pending Acquisition of AS&#38;E. On June 20, 2016, we and AS&#38;E signed a definitive agreement pursuant to which we will acquire AS&#38;E for $37.00 in cash per share of common stock of AS&#38;E. The total purchase price is approximately $269 million, and we intend to fund the transaction with a combination of AS&#38;E's cash on hand and money borrowed under our revolving credit facility. As of June 30, 2016, AS&#38;E reported cash and cash equivalents of $74 million. We believe this is a good strategic fit for the Company consistent with our expansion strategy. The completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including, among others: (i) the requisite approval of AS&#38;E's shareholders, (ii) the expiration or termination of the required waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 ("HSR Act") and (iii) the absence of any order or injunction issued by any court or governmental authority in the United States preventing the consummation of the transaction. We expect the transaction to close by December 31, 2016. 

For more information regarding the pending acquisition of AS&#38;E and the risks and uncertainties associated therewith, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Industry Overview 

We sell our security and inspection systems and patient monitoring, cardiology and anesthesia systems primarily to end-users, while we design and manufacture our optoelectronic devices and value-added subsystems, and provide electronics manufacturing services primarily for OEM customers. 

Security. A variety of technologies are currently used globally in security and inspection applications, including transmission and backscatter X-ray, 3-D and computed tomography, nuclear radiation detection, magnetometry, radar and trace detection. We believe that the market for security and inspection products will continue to be affected by the threat of terrorist incidents and by new government mandates and appropriations for security and inspection products in the United States and internationally. 

As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and subsequent attacks in other locations worldwide, security and inspection products have increasingly been used at a wide range of facilities other than airports, such as border crossings, railways, seaports, cruise line terminals, freight forwarding operations, sporting venues, government and military installations and nuclear facilities. Congress passed the Aviation and Transportation Security Act and integrated many U.S. security-related agencies, including the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, into the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Under its directive from Congress, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has since undertaken numerous initiatives to prevent terrorists from entering the country, hijacking airliners, and obtaining and trafficking in weapons of mass destruction and their components, to secure sensitive U.S. technologies and to identify and screen high-risk cargo before it is loaded onto airlines and ships, among others. These initiatives, known, for example, as the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration's Air Cargo Screening Mandate and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Container Security Initiative, have resulted in an increased demand for security and inspection products. 

Certain of the government sponsored initiatives in the United States, such as the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and the U.S. Transportation Security Administration's Air Cargo Screening Mandate have also stimulated security programs in other areas of the world because the U.S. initiatives call on other nations to bolster their port security strategies, including acquiring or improving their security and inspection equipment and screening operations. The international market for non-intrusive inspection equipment and related services, therefore, continues to expand as countries that ship goods directly to the United States participate in such programs and as they choose to procure and operate equipment in order to secure their own borders, transportation networks, facilities and other venues. 

Congress also passed legislation that calls for the inspection of international maritime cargo destined for the United States, domestic civil aviation cargo, and radiological and nuclear threats in cargo entering the United States. Certain of our cargo and vehicle inspection systems are already being used internationally and by the U.S. Government to comply with these standards. 

Following recommendations outlined in "The 9/11 Commission Report," issued by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security now requires the screening of all cargo carried on passenger airlines in the United States. Several of our hold (checked) baggage and cargo screening systems have been approved by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for this purpose and are being procured and used by freight forwarders, airlines, transportation companies and other businesses to fulfill their compliance requirements. 

Furthermore, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate and Domestic Nuclear Detection Office have supported the development of new security inspection technologies and products. Our Security division participates in a number of such research and development efforts, including projects to develop new technologies for radiation and nuclear materials detection and aviation screening. The Science and Technology Directorate has also initiated programs for the development of technologies capable of protecting highways, railways and waterways from terrorist attack. 

In addition, the U.S. Department of Defense has invested heavily in technologies and services that screen would-be attackers before they are able to harm U.S. and allied forces. These technologies include products that can screen personnel, vehicles and other containers for the presence of explosives, improvised explosive devices (IEDs), weapons and other contraband. 

The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and other U.S. federal agencies implemented the Second Line of Defense Program and Megaports programs to help prevent the proliferation and trafficking of radioactive and nuclear materials. The DOE has procured, and we continue to supply and maintain, multiple Rapiscan radiation detection sensors, monitors and communications systems. Our Security division also directly supplies many countries, nuclear power facilities and industries handling radioactive materials with radiation detection technology. 

Similar initiatives and new regulations promulgated by international organizations have resulted in a growing global demand for airline, cargo, port and border inspection technologies. For example, the European Commission has issued uniform performance standards for systems that screen baggage and people at aviation checkpoints and air cargo, as well as new directives related specifically to maritime security, among other security directives. 

Major projects recently installed or currently underway include installations at airports, ports and border crossings, government and military facilities and other locations in the United States and throughout the world. These projects contain various inspection product offerings. We anticipate that there may be growing demand from governments and commercial enterprises for increasingly sophisticated, turnkey and other security screening solutions. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are generally subject to renegotiation of profits and termination for convenience at the election of the Government. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, our direct sales to the U.S. Government were approximately $57 million. Additionally, certain of our contracts with foreign governments contain provisions allowing the government to terminate a contract for convenience. For further discussion, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

Healthcare. Healthcare has been, and we believe will continue to be, a growing sector throughout much of the world. Developing countries in Asia and Latin America are expected to continue to build healthcare infrastructure to serve expanding middle class populations. In developed countries, including the United States and Europe, an aging population and extended life expectancy is projected to fuel growth in healthcare for the foreseeable future. 

Notwithstanding this growth, many factors including stricter government requirements affecting staffing and accountability and shrinking reimbursements from health insurance organizations are forcing healthcare providers to do more with less. At the same time, recent advances enabling big data management and analysis as well as the widespread introduction of mobile devices into the healthcare environment, are creating an emerging demand for patient data acquisition and distribution. Our Healthcare division designs, manufactures and markets devices and software that respond to these demands, helping hospitals reduce costs and more fully utilize resources while maintaining or improving the quality of care their physicians and nurses are able to deliver. 

We are a global manufacturer and distributor of patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and clinical networking solutions for use in hospitals, medical clinics and physician offices. We design, manufacture and 

market patient monitoring solutions for critical, perinatal, sub-acute and perioperative care areas of the hospital, wired and wireless networks and ambulatory blood pressure monitors, all aimed at providing caregivers with timely patient information. Our diagnostic cardiology systems include Holter recorders and analyzers, ambulatory blood pressure monitors, electrocardiography (ECG) devices, stress event data management systems and related software and services. 

We are also a global manufacturer and distributor of anesthesia delivery systems, ventilators and vaporizers. We sell these products primarily to hospitals for use in operating rooms and anesthesia induction areas. We also sell subsystems and components, such as anesthesia vaporizers and ventilators, to pharmaceutical companies and other manufacturers of anesthesia delivery systems. 

Under the Primedic name, we are a global manufacturer and distributor of defibrillators outside the U.S. and Canada. We sell these products to emergency first responders and building managers for general use in hospitals and other facilities, and emergency vehicles. 

Optoelectronics and Manufacturing. Our optoelectronic devices are used in a wide variety of applications for diversified markets including the aerospace and defense, avionics, medical imaging and diagnostics, biochemistry analysis, pharmaceutical, nanotechnology, telecommunications, construction and homeland security markets. Medical applications for our devices include diagnostic and imaging products, patient monitoring equipment, and glucose monitors. Aerospace and defense applications for our devices include satellite navigation sensors, laser guided munitions systems, range finders, weapons simulation systems, computer peripherals and other applications that require the conversion of optical signals into electronic signals. Homeland security applications for our devices include X-ray based and other detection systems. Our optoelectronic devices and value-added subsystems are also used in a wide variety of measurement control, monitoring and industrial applications and are key components in telecommunications technologies. We also offer electronics manufacturing services to our optoelectronics customers, as well as to our Security and Healthcare divisions. We offer full turnkey and printed circuit board assembly, cable and harness assembly, liquid crystal displays and box-build manufacturing services, in which we provide product design and development, supply chain management, and production manufacturing services. 

We believe that continued advances in technology and reductions in the cost of key components of optoelectronic systems, including computer processing power and memory, have broadened the market by enabling the use of optoelectronic devices in a greater number of applications. In addition, we see a trend among OEMs to increasingly outsource the design and manufacture of optoelectronic devices as well as value-added subsystems to fully-integrated, independent manufacturers, like us, that may have greater specialization, broader expertise and more flexibility to respond to short cycle times and quicker market expectations. We believe that our level of vertical integration, substantial engineering resources, expertise in the use and application of optoelectronic technology and low-cost international manufacturing operations enable us to compete effectively in the market for optoelectronic products and for electronics manufacturing services. 

We have also penetrated several related markets that depend on our optoelectronic technologies and electronics manufacturing capabilities. Through system engineering and product development, we also develop, manufacture and sell laser-based products, as well as sensors for vehicle classification in toll and traffic management systems. 

Growth Strategy 

We believe that one of our primary competitive strengths is our expertise in the cost-effective design and manufacture of specialized electronic systems and components for critical applications. As a result, we have leveraged, and intend to continue to leverage, such expertise and capacity to gain price, performance and agility advantages over our competitors in the security, healthcare and optoelectronics fields, and to translate such advantages into profitable growth in those fields. At the same time, we continually seek to identify new markets in 

which our core expertise and capacity will provide us with competitive advantages. Key elements of this strategy include: 

Capitalizing on Global Reach. We operate from locations throughout the world. We view our international operations as providing an important strategic advantage over competitors. First, our international manufacturing facilities allow us to take advantage of competitive labor rates and favorable tax regulations in order to be a low cost producer. Second, our international offices strengthen our sales and marketing efforts and our ability to service and repair our systems by providing direct access to growing markets and to our existing international customer base. Third, our international manufacturing locations allow us to reduce delivery times to our global customer base. In the future, we intend to continue to enhance our international manufacturing and sales capabilities. 

Capitalizing on Vertical Integration. Our vertical integration provides several advantages in each of our divisions. These advantages include reduced manufacturing and delivery times, lower costs due to our access to competitive international labor markets and direct sourcing of raw materials. We also believe that we offer significant added value to our customers by providing a full range of vertically-integrated services, including component design and customization, subsystem concept design and application engineering, product prototyping and development, efficient pre-production and short-run and high volume manufacturing. We believe that our vertical integration differentiates us from many of our competitors and provides value to our customers who can rely on us to be an integrated supplier. We intend to continue to leverage our vertical integration to create greater value for our customers in the design and manufacture of our products. 

Capitalizing on the Market for Security and Inspection Systems. Attentiveness to terrorist and other security threats may continue to drive the market for security and inspection systems in transportation security and also at ports and border crossings, government installations, military facilities and public event venues. The trend toward increased screening of goods entering and departing from ports and borders has resulted, and may continue to result in, the growth in the market for cargo inspection systems and turnkey security screening services that are capable of screening shipping containers for contraband and assisting customs officials in the verification of shipping manifests. Package and cargo screening by freight forwarders, airlines and air cargo companies represents a growing sector, as regulations in the United States and Europe require such screening in certain circumstances. We intend to capitalize on opportunities to replace, service and upgrade existing security installations, and to offer turnkey security screening solutions in which we may construct, staff and/or operate on a long-term basis security screening checkpoints for our customers. Finally, we also intend to continue to develop new security and inspection technologies, such as our proprietary real time tomography products, and to enhance our current product and service offerings through internal research and development and selective acquisitions. 

Improving and Complementing Existing Medical Technologies. We develop and market patient monitoring systems, diagnostic cardiology products, anesthesia delivery systems, ventilators and vaporizers, defibrillators, and associated supplies and accessories. We are able to market and sell many of our product offerings through shared sales channels and distribution networks. Our efforts to develop new products and improve our existing medical technologies are focused on the needs of care providers and their patients. Our efforts to improve existing diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia delivery technologies will also continue to concentrate on providing products that are flexible and intuitive to use so that clinicians can deliver accurate, precise, reliable and cost-effective care. We focus on enabling hospitals to leverage their IT infrastructure at a significant financial savings, providing actionable alarms at the bedside monitor and the central station. 

Selectively Entering New Markets. We intend to continue to selectively enter new markets that complement our existing capabilities in the design, development and manufacture of specialized electronic systems and components for critical applications such as security inspection and patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems. We believe that by manufacturing products that rely on our existing technological capabilities, we will leverage our integrated design and manufacturing infrastructure to build a larger presence in new markets 

that present attractive competitive dynamics. We intend to achieve this strategy through internal growth and through selective acquisitions. 

Acquiring New Technologies and Companies. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We have developed expertise in our various lines of business and other areas through internal research and development efforts, as well as through selective acquisitions. In addition to our pending acquisition of AS&#38;E, we expect to continue to seek acquisition opportunities to broaden our technological expertise and capabilities, lower our manufacturing costs and facilitate our entry into new markets. 

Products and Technology 

We design, develop, manufacture and sell products ranging from security and inspection systems to patient monitoring, cardiology and anesthesia systems to discrete optoelectronic devices and value-added subsystems. 

Security and Inspection Systems. We design, manufacture and market security and inspection systems globally to end users under the "Rapiscan Systems" trade name. Rapiscan Systems products are used to inspect baggage, parcels, cargo, people, vehicles and other objects for weapons, explosives, drugs, radioactive and nuclear materials and other contraband. These systems are also used for the safe, accurate and efficient verification of cargo manifests for the purpose of assessing duties and monitoring the export and import of controlled materials. Rapiscan Systems products fall into the following categories: baggage and parcel inspection; cargo and vehicle inspection; hold (checked) baggage screening; people screening; radiation detection; and explosive and narcotics trace detection. We also offer turnkey security screening services under the "S2" trade name, including the staffing and operation of security screening checkpoints. 

As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and subsequent attacks in other locations worldwide, security and inspection products have increasingly been used at a wide range of facilities other than airports, such as border crossings, railways, seaports, cruise line terminals, freight forwarding operations, government and military installations and nuclear facilities. As a result of the use of security and inspection products at additional facilities, we have diversified our sales channels for security and inspection products. 

Many of our security and inspection systems include dual-energy X-ray technology with computer software enhanced imaging technology to facilitate the detection of materials such as explosives, weapons, narcotics, bulk currency or other contraband. While all X-ray systems produce a two-dimensional image of the contents of the inspected object, the dual-energy X-ray systems also measure the X-ray absorption of the inspected object's contents at two different X-ray energies to determine the atomic number, mass and other characteristics of the object's contents. The various organic and inorganic substances in the inspected object appear to operators of the inspection systems in various colors, and this visual information can be used to identify and differentiate the inspected materials. In addition, we offer dual-view X-ray screening systems, now available on many of our systems that allow operators to examine objects from two orthogonal positions simultaneously, thereby reducing the need for re-scanning of objects and improving the operator's ability to detect threats quickly and effectively. Our baggage and parcel inspection, cargo and vehicle inspection and hold (checked) baggage screening inspection systems range in size from compact mobile systems to large systems comprising entire buildings in which trucks, shipping containers or pallets are inspected. Many of our inspection systems are also designed to be upgradeable to respond to new customer requirements as they emerge or change. 

Our cargo and vehicle inspection applications, in which occupied vehicles, cars, trucks, shipping containers, pallets and other large objects can be inspected, are designed in various configurations, including fixed-site, gantry, relocatable, portal and mobile systems. These products are primarily used to verify the contents of cars, trucks or cargo containers and to detect the presence of contraband, including narcotics, weapons, explosives, radioactive and nuclear materials and other smuggled items. They offer significant improvements over past methods of cargo 

screening, such as manual searches, as our cargo systems are faster, more thorough and do not subject the cargo to pilferage. Entire shipping containers or trucks containing densely packed goods can be screened rapidly. 

Most of our cargo and vehicle inspection systems are based on high energy X-ray technology, in conjunction with digital imaging equipment, to non-intrusively inspect objects and present images to an inspector, showing shapes, sizes, locations and relative densities of the contents. We also manufacture passive radiation detection devices for detecting nuclear threat material utilizing their gamma and neutron signatures. Additionally, we have developed isotope specific identification algorithms. Many of these systems have been built to meet specific customer inspection requirements. 

Our Security division is among the only companies in the market offering inspection systems at energy levels ranging from 140 Kilo electron Volts (KeV) to 160 KeV, 180 KeV, 200 KeV, 320 KeV, 1 Mega electron Volt (MeV), 4.5 MeV, 6 MeV, and 9MeV. We believe that we offer one of the broadest technology platforms in the baggage and parcel and cargo and vehicle inspection systems industry. Our broad platform permits us to offer customers solutions, which optimize flexibility, performance and cost to meet the customer's unique application requirements. 

Our Security division also offers hold (checked) baggage screening systems that are utilized by airports, freight forwarders and other parties responsible for screening baggage and cargo before it is placed in the cargo hold of airplanes. Certain of our currently available systems utilize multiple, dual-energy X-ray beams to provide high-quality images and to enable algorithms that assist operators in the detection of explosives. Other systems utilize a very large number of distributed X-ray emitters that rapidly capture approximately 1,000 views of a bag and then utilize sophisticated software to reconstruct high resolution images. These systems are designed to meet the high-speed screening and analysis demands of regulators in the United States and European Union. They can be operated in stand-alone mode, where a single operator views the images produced by a single system, or can be networked, allowing operators stationed at a remote computer terminal to monitor multiple systems. 

Our Security division also offers people screening products, such as a line of "Metor" brand walk-through metal detector (WTMD) products for use at security checkpoints at airports, amusement parks, banks, courthouses, government buildings, sports arenas and other venues, and the Counterbomber line of suicide bomber detection products. We have also developed a high performance hand-held trace detection system providing portable light-weight detection of trace amounts of explosives as well as narcotics. This system is designed to be used in screening people, cargo, baggage and other items for illicit materials and weapons. 

The following table sets forth certain information related to the standard security and inspection products that we currently offer. We do, however, also customize our standard products to suit specific applications and customer requirements. 

PRODUCT LINE 

&#160; PRODUCT NAME / PRODUCT FAMILY 

&#160; TECHNOLOGY 

&#160; MARKET SEGMENT 

Baggage and Parcel Inspection &#160; Rapiscan 600 series X-ray systems &#160; Dual-energy X-ray Single and multi-view configuration &#160; Checkpoint inspection at airports, prisons, border crossings, government buildings, and postal facilities, critical infrastructure protection at power and chemical plants, water resource sites as well as air cargo screening &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Cargo and Vehicle Inspection &#160; Rapiscan Eagle &#160; High energy X-ray &#160; Occupied vehicle, cars, cargo, vehicle and rail car inspection at airports, border crossings and sea ports &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Hold (Checked) Baggage Screening &#160; Rapiscan MVXR 5000 Rapiscan RTT &#160; Multi-view, dual energy X-ray explosive detection system (EDS) High-speed, stationary gantry computed tomography explosive detection system (EDS) &#160; Baggage inspection with automatic explosive detection at airports and freight forwarding facilities &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; People Screening &#160; Metor series metal detectors Rapiscan Secure 1000 Counterbomber &#160; Electromagnetic induction Backscatter X-ray Radar and video tracking &#160; Checkpoint inspection at airports, border crossings, military checkpoints, stadiums, prisons and government facilities &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Radiation Detection &#160; Rapiscan Radiation Monitors &#160; Gamma and neutron detection of radioactive and nuclear material &#160; Cargo, vehicle, rail car and people screening at airports, border crossings, military checkpoints, stadiums, prisons and government facilities &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Trace Detection &#160; Detectra &#160; IMS based technology hand-held explosives and narcotics detection &#160; Checkpoint inspection at airports, border crossings, military checkpoints, stadiums, prisons and government facilities 

Patient Monitoring, Diagnostic Cardiology, Anesthesia Systems and Defibrillators. Our Healthcare division designs, manufactures and markets products globally to end users primarily under the "Spacelabs", "Primedic" and "Statcorp" trade names. 

Spacelabs products include patient monitors for use in perioperative, critical care and emergency care environments with neonatal, pediatric and adult patients. Our patient monitoring systems comprise monitors and central nursing stations connected by hardwired or wireless networks, as well as stand-alone monitors where the patient data can be transported physically from one monitor to another as the patient is moved. These systems enable hospital staff to access patient data where and when it is required. In addition, these products are designed 

with an "open architecture" to interact with hospital information systems. Many of these products allow clinicians to view and control various software applications on the patient monitor's display, eliminating the need for separate computer terminals in the patient's room. Attending nurses can check laboratory results and other reports, enter orders, review protocols and complete medical charting at the patient's bedside. 

For electrocardiograph monitoring or multiparameter monitoring of ambulatory patients, we offer a digital telemetry system. The system operates in government-protected bands, which are not used for private land mobile radio, business radio services or broadcast analog or digital television. Spacelabs Intesys&#174; Clinical Suite (ICS) provides a software suite allowing hospitals to leverage their infrastructure to capture all data from the bedside, compact and telemetry monitors. Retrospective data formerly only found at a central station monitor is made available at any PC in the hospital. 

In the past few years, Spacelabs has introduced a number of new products, including the XPREZZON&#174; patient monitor, followed shortly by the qube&#174; compact monitor. The qube can be used in both bedside and transport applications. We also introduced a new telemetry transmitter, the AriaTele&#153;, with subsequent product additions to enable the AritaTele TM to broadcast on a number of specialized frequency bands that are prescribed for global healthcare use. Other recent product introduction were the Xhibit&#174; Central Station, a scalable system providing clinicians the ability to remotely monitor up to 48 patients and the XprezzNet TM , a high resolution data integration for electronic medical records vendor Cerner, which provides unique patient to device association (P2DA). In June 2015, we introduced the XTR telemetry system. XTR provides a proprietary arrhythmia detection algorithm, which continuously analyzes and displays seven leads of ECG on Xhibit or in ICS clinical access. 

In 2016, we introduced two new software products designed to drive greater efficiency and accountability in the workflow of hospitals. Spacelabs TeleCom&#153; enables hospitals to connect, track, communicate and report on all patient monitoring. Positive patient-to-device association using a hospital's existing smartphones or roving workstations can help reduce errors related to patient safety and device management. Electronic tracking and recording of communications helps to eliminate the traditional reliance on faxing, scanning, printing and storing of paper records to document caregiver communications. Spacelabs SafeNSound&#153; can help hospitals meet the Joint Commission's National Patient Safety Goals related to alarm reporting and alarm fatigue management. Both Spacelabs TeleCom and Spacelabs SafeNSound feature detailed reports that can assist in compliance and audits. 

Our Healthcare division also develops cardiac diagnostic systems, including Holter analyzers and recorders. Our PathfinderSL analysis tool provides simple, actionable Holter reports to any PC, inside or outside the hospital. Our evo&#174; Holter recorders provide low cost of ownership through, for example, the elimination of disposable batteries, memory cards with no moving parts to maintain and other advances. Our Lifecard CF Holter recorders are worn by patients for up to seven days in order to capture heart arrhythmias that may occur in a patient only a few times per week. This product is especially helpful in identifying the presence of atrial fibrillation. Patients that may be experiencing even less frequent heart arrhythmias wear our CardioCall product, which stays with the patient over several weeks and transmits its findings over the phone to a receiving station in the hospital. Our Cambridge Heart HearTwave II&#174; Stress Testing System product provides vital information during an exercise stress test using the optional Microvolt T-Wave&#153; Alternans test that is designed to help identify patients at risk of sudden cardiac death. 

We are also a supplier of ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) monitors which are routinely used by physicians around the world and by clinical research organizations. Many physicians are using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring to detect "white coat" hypertension, a condition in which people experience elevated blood pressure in the doctor's office but not in their daily lives. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring helps improve diagnostic accuracy and minimize the associated costs of treatment. In 2014, we introduced the OnTrak ambulatory blood pressure system. This system provides the first ambulatory blood pressure monitor to be validated for both pediatric and adult patient types and includes the capability to measure activity correlation with non-invasive blood pressure readings. 

We also provide the Sentinel Cardiology Information Management System, which integrates data from Spacelabs-branded products into a central enterprise-wide database system that can be accessed by care providers and medical facility administrators thereby providing enhanced workflow and efficiencies. In 2015, we introduced a thin client version of Sentinel that enables clinicians to easily interact with remote, centralized databases using their standard browser on PCs, tablets and cell phones. Sentinel 10 supports a zero IT deployment model with smart applets downloaded to user PC devices on demand, simplifying roll-out and maintenance from an IT perspective. 

Our anesthesia delivery and ventilation group designs and manufactures anesthesia delivery systems, vaporizers and ventilators. The ARKON Anesthesia System is a high-performance anesthesia delivery system that offers functionality, comfort and control. This anesthesia delivery system can be expanded to enable a wide-angle view of the clinical setting so the clinician can face the patient, as well as other clinical advancements. The ARKON complements our BleaseSirius, BleaseFocus and BleaseGenius anesthesia delivery systems. With this broad portfolio of anesthesia systems, we can provide flexible anesthesia solutions for operating room environments, anesthesia induction areas, day surgery centers, magnetic resonance imaging facilities and other locations where the administration of anesthesia is required. Our BleaseDatum anesthesia vaporizers and Blease 700/900 anesthesia ventilators are also designed to be compatible with the anesthesia delivery systems of several other manufacturers. 

Our defibrillator products are distributed under the Primedic brand name. The HeartSave One products are for use by public first responders, while the HeartSave 6/6S and DefiMonitor products are for use by medical personnel. 

Many of the capital-intensive products that Spacelabs sells have supplies and accessories associated with them that can represent annuity revenue opportunities. Recognizing this, we integrated Statcorp Medical, which manufactures blood pressure cuffs and rapid infusor bags, into Spacelabs. Statcorp Medical has recently introduced bariatric cuffs providing improved blood pressure measurements from patients with larger arms, as well as patient cables that allow transition between different devices without the need to recable. 

The following table sets forth a description of the more significant healthcare products that we currently offer: 

PRODUCT LINE 

&#160; PRODUCT NAME / PRODUCT FAMILY 

&#160; MARKET SEGMENT 

Patient Monitoring and Connectivity &#160; XPREZZON qube Ultraview DM3 Dual Monitor Intesys Clinical Suite G2 ICS Xprezz XprezzNet Flexports Sonicaid Fetal Monitor Xhibit &#233;lance AriaTele Spacelabs TeleCom Spacelabs SafeNSound &#160; Hospital care areas, outpatient surgery centers and physician offices &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Diagnostic Cardiology &#160; Ambulatory blood pressure monitors (various) OnTrak ABP Pathfinder SL CardioCall Lifecard evo CardioExpress ECG machines CardioDirect Stress Testing Systems Sentinel Cardiology Data Management HearTwave II&#174; Stress Testing System &#160; Hospital cardiology care areas and physician offices &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Anesthesia Delivery and Ventilation &#160; ARKON Blease 700 and 900 series ventilators BleaseSirius BleaseSirius EFM BleaseDatum Vaporizer BleaseFocus BleaseGenius &#160; Ambulatory surgery centers and operating rooms &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Defibrillators &#160; HeartSave One / PAD / AED / AED-M / AS HeartSave 6/6S DefiMonitor XD / EVO &#160; Emergency first responders and building management &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Medical Devices and Accessories &#160; UltraCheck, SoftCheck and Curve Blood Pressure Cuffs Patient Cables and Accessories Fluid Delivery Unifusors &#160; All hospital care areas, outpatient surgery centers and physician offices 

Optoelectronic Devices and Manufacturing Services. Optoelectronic devices generally consist of both active and passive components. Active components sense light of varying wavelengths and convert the light 

detected into electronic signals, whereas passive components amplify, separate or reflect light. The active components we manufacture consist of silicon, gallium arsenide and indium gallium arsenide photodetectors and light sources. Passive components include lenses, prisms, filters, mirrors and other precision optical products that are used by us in the manufacture of our optoelectronic products or are sold to third parties for use in telescopes, laser printers, copiers, microscopes and other detection and vision equipment. The devices we manufacture are both standard products and products customized for specific applications and are offered either as components or as subsystems. Our optoelectronic products and services are provided primarily under the "OSI Optoelectronics" trade name. 

In addition to the manufacture of standard and OEM products, we also specialize in designing and manufacturing customized value-added subsystems for use in a wide range of products and equipment. An optoelectronic subsystem typically consists of one or more optoelectronic devices that are combined with other electronic components and packaging for use in an end product. The composition of a subsystem can range from a simple assembly of various optoelectronic devices that are incorporated into other subsystems (for example, a printed circuit board containing our optoelectronic devices) to complete end-products (for example, pulse oximetry equipment). 

We also provide electronics design and manufacturing services both in North America, the United Kingdom and in the Asia Pacific region with enhanced, RoHS-compliant, printed circuit board and cable and harness assemblies and box-build manufacturing services utilizing state-of-the-art automated surface mount technology lines. We offer electronics manufacturing services to OEM customers and end users for medical, automotive, defense, aerospace, industrial and skin care applications that do not utilize optoelectronic devices. We also manufacture LCD displays for medical, industrial and consumer electronics applications, and flex curcuits and touch panels for OEM customers at the prototype stage. Our electronics manufacturing services are provided primarily under the "OSI Electronics," "APlus Products," "Briton EMS," "Union Four" and "Altaflex" trade names. 

We develop, manufacture and sell laser-based remote sensing devices that are used to detect and classify vehicles in toll and traffic management systems under the "OSI Laserscan" and "Autosense" trade names. We offer solid-state laser products for aerospace, defense, telecommunication and medical applications under the "OSI LaserDiode" trade name. 

The following table sets forth a description of the more significant standard optoelectronics products that we currently offer. We also customize our standard products to suit specific applications and customer requirements. 

PRODUCT LINE 

&#160; PRODUCT NAME / PRODUCT FAMILY 

&#160; MARKET SEGMENT 

Optoelectronic Components &#160; Si and InGaAs Photodiodes and Avalanche Diodes UV and XUV Linear and 2-D Arrays X-Ray Photodetectors Position Sensitive Devices Optical Switches Silicon and InGaAs Telecom Devices Solid State Laser Diodes Laser Scanners (AS600 through AS800 Series) &#160; Medical diagnostics instrumentation and analytical chemistry, oximetry and blood chemistry, barcode readers, security scanners and inspection systems, lidar and laser range finder, OTDR and test and measurement instruments, laser guided munitions, weapon simulation systems, aircraft gyro navigation sensors, satellite sun acquisition sensors, electronic toll collection (ETC) and toll and traffic management systems and laser scanners. &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Medical Devices and Accessories &#160; Oximetry Sensors and Accessories &#160; Medical devices and instrumentation &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Toll and Traffic Management Systems, Laser Scanners &#160; &#160; &#160; Laser based scanners and ETC hardware and software 

Markets, Customers and Applications 

Security and Inspection Products. Many security and inspection products were developed in response to civilian airline hijackings. Consequently, a significant portion of our security and inspection products have been and continue to be sold for use at airports. Our security and inspection products are also used for security purposes at locations in addition to airports, such as border crossings, shipping ports, military and other government installations, freight forwarding facilities, high-profile locations such as U.K. House of Parliament, Buckingham Palace, the Kremlin and the Vatican and for high-profile events such as the Olympic Games. Furthermore, as terrorist attacks continue to occur, overall transportation and travel industry demands have increased, resulting in heightened attention for our security and inspection products. We also provide turnkey security screening solutions, which can include the construction, staffing and long-term operation of security screening locations for our customers. 

Our customers include, among many others, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Transportation Security Administration and Federal Bureau of Prisons in the United States, as well as Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs and Manchester Airport Group in the United Kingdom, Aeroporto Di Paris, Aeroporto De Roma, the Servicio de Administraci&#243;n Tributaria in M&#233;xico, Chek Lap Kok Airport in Hong Kong and Ben Gurion International Airport in Israel, DHL, and United Parcel Service. 

Patient Monitoring, Diagnostic Cardiology, Anesthesia Systems and Defibrillators. Our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems are manufactured and distributed globally for use in critical care, emergency and perioperative areas within hospitals as well as physicians' offices, medical clinics and ambulatory surgery centers. We also provide wired and wireless networks, clinical information access solutions and ambulatory blood pressure monitors. Our defibrillators are manufactured and distributed globally for use in public facilities, medical facilities and ambulances. 

We have sold products to organizations such as Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, California, Spartanburg Regional Medical Center in Spartanburg, South Carolina, LSU Medical Center in Shreveport, Louisiana, the Kingston Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in the United Kingdom, Centre Hospitalier Saint Joseph&#151;Saint Luc and CHU Bordeaux&#151;H&#244;pital Pellegrin in France, among many other organizations. We have also sold the products through various group purchasing organizations, including Vizient, Inc., Healthtrust Purchasing Group, L.P., MedAssets Supply Chain Systems, LLC, and Premier, Inc., among others. 

Optoelectronic Devices and Electronics Manufacturing Services. Our optoelectronic devices and the electronics we manufacture are used in a broad range of products by a variety of customers. For example, they are utilized by customers in the following market segments: defense, aerospace and avionics; analytical and medical imaging; healthcare; telecommunications; homeland security; barcode scanners; toll and traffic management; and automotive diagnostic systems. Major customers in these segments include Apple, Tesla, Google, Raytheon, Honeywell, UTC Aerospace Systems, Northrop Grumman, Medtronic, Smiths Medical, Conmed Corporation, Draeger Medical, Beckman Coulter, FireEye, United Technologies, Draeger Safety, Pacific Bioscience Laboratories, Vislink, Assa Aboy and Trakka, among others. 

Marketing, Sales and Service 

We market and sell our security and inspection products and turnkey security screening solutions globally through a direct sales and marketing staff located North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australia, in addition to an expansive global network of independent distributors. This sales staff is supported by a service organization located in the same regions, as well as a global network of independent distributors. We also support these sales and customer relations efforts by providing operator training, computerized training and testing equipment, in-country service support, software upgrades and service training for customer technicians. 

We market and sell our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia systems and defibrillators globally through a direct sales and marketing staff located in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia, in addition to a global network of independent distributors. We also support these sales and customer service efforts by providing operator in-service training, comprehensive interactive eLearning for all monitoring products, software updates and upgrades and service training for customer biomedical staff and distributors. We also provide IT specialists and clinical specialists to provide support both before and after product sale. 

We market and sell our optoelectronic devices and value-added manufacturing services, through both a direct sales and marketing staff located in North America, Europe and Asia, and indirectly through a global network of independent sales representatives and distributors. Our sales staff is supported by an applications engineering group whose members are available to provide technical support, which includes designing applications, providing custom tooling and process integration and developing products that meet customer defined specifications. 

We consider our maintenance service operations to be an important element of our business. After the expiration of our standard product warranty periods, we are sometimes engaged by our customers to provide maintenance services for our security and inspection products through annual maintenance contracts. In addition, we believe that our expertise in installing, maintaining and operating our security inspection products is an important factor for customers that are considering engaging us to provide turnkey security screening solutions. We provide a variety of service and support options for our healthcare customers, including complete hospital on-site repair and maintenance service and telephone support, parts exchange programs for customers with the internal expertise to perform a portion of their own service needs and a depot repair center at our division headquarters. We believe that our international maintenance service capabilities allow us to be competitive in selling our security and inspection systems as well as our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems. Furthermore, we believe that as the installed base of both our security and inspection systems and patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems increases, revenues generated from such annual maintenance service contracts and from the sale of replacement parts will increase. 

Research and Development 

Our security and inspection systems are primarily designed at our facilities in the United States and internationally in the United Kingdom, Finland and India. These products include mechanical, electrical, analog and digital electronics, software subsystems and algorithms, which are all designed by us. In addition to product design, we provide system integration services to integrate our products into turnkey systems at the customer site. We support cooperative research projects with government agencies and provide contract research for government agencies. 

Our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia delivery and defibrillator products are primarily designed at our facilities in the United States and internationally in China, Germany and the United Kingdom. These products include software, networking, connectivity, mechanical, electrical, digital electronic and software subsystems, most of which are designed by us. We are also currently involved, both in the United States and internationally, in several research projects aimed at improving our medical systems and at expanding our current product lines. 

We design and manufacture optoelectronic devices and we provide electronics manufacturing services primarily in our facilities in the United States and internationally in the United Kingdom, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. We engineer and manufacture subsystems to solve the specific application needs of our OEM customers. In addition, we offer entire subsystem design and manufacturing solutions. We consider our engineering personnel to be an important extension of our core sales and marketing efforts. 

In addition to close collaboration with our customers in the design and development of our current products, we maintain an active program for the development and introduction of new products, enhancements and improvements to our existing products, including the implementation of new applications of our technology. We seek to further enhance our research and development program and consider such program to be an important element of our business and operations. As of June 30, 2016, we engaged approximately 421 full-time engineers, technicians and support staff. Our research and development expenses were $44.8 million in fiscal 2014, $51.6 million in fiscal 2015 and $49.8 million in fiscal 2016. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development efforts in the future. 

Manufacturing and Materials 

We currently manufacture our security and inspection systems domestically in California, Colorado, Virginia and North Carolina, and internationally in Malaysia and the United Kingdom. We currently manufacture our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia systems, defibrillators and related supplies and accessories domestically in Washington and internationally in China and Germany. We outsource manufacturing of certain of our diagnostic cardiology supplies and accessories. We currently manufacture our optoelectronic devices and provide electronics manufacturing services domestically in California and New Jersey, and internationally in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Most of our high volume, labor intensive manufacturing and assembly activities are performed at our facilities in India, Indonesia and Malaysia. Since many of our customers are located in the United States, Europe and Asia, our ability to manufacture products in these markets and provide follow-on service from offices located in these regions is an important component of our global strategy. 

Our global manufacturing organization has expertise in optoelectronic, microelectronic and integrated electronics for industrial and automation, medical, aerospace and defense industry applications. Our manufacturing includes silicon wafer processing and fabrication, optoelectronic device assembly and screening, thin and thick film microelectronic hybrid assemblies, surface mounted and thru-hole printed circuit board electronic assemblies and electronics services, including complete turnkey and box-build manufacturing, and flex circuitry. We outsource certain manufacturing operations, including certain sheet metal fabrication and plastic components. 

The principal raw materials and subcomponents used in producing our security and inspection systems consist of X-ray generators, linear accelerators, radioactive isotopes, detectors, data acquisition and computer systems, conveyance systems and miscellaneous mechanical and electrical components. A large portion of the optoelectronic devices, subsystems and circuit card assemblies used in our inspection and detection systems are manufactured in-house. The majority of our X-ray generators, linear accelerators, radioactive isotopes and conveyance systems used in our cargo and vehicle inspection systems are purchased from unaffiliated third party providers. 

The principal raw materials and subcomponents used in producing our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems and related supplies and accessories consist of printed circuit boards, housings, mechanical assemblies, pneumatic devices, touch screens, medical grade displays, cables, filters, textiles, fabric, gauges, fittings, tubing and packaging materials. We purchase certain devices, including computers, peripheral accessories and remote displays, from unaffiliated third party providers. 

The principal raw materials and subcomponents used in producing our optoelectronic devices and electronic subsystems consist of silicon wafers, electronic components, light emitting diodes, scintillation crystals, passive optical components, printed circuit boards and packaging materials. The silicon- based optoelectronic devices manufactured by us are critical components in most of our products and subsystems. We purchase silicon wafers and other electronic components from unaffiliated third party providers. 

For cost, quality control and efficiency reasons, at times we purchase raw materials and subcomponents only from single vendors with whom we have ongoing relationships. We do, however, qualify second sources for many of our raw materials and critical components. We purchase the materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Although to date none of our divisions has experienced any significant shortages or material delays in obtaining any of its raw materials or subcomponents, it is possible that we may face such shortages or delays in one or more materials in the future. 

Trademarks and Tradenames, Patents, and Licenses 

Trademarks and Tradenames. We have used, registered and applied to register certain trademarks and service marks to distinguish our products, technologies and services from those of our competitors in the United States and in foreign countries. We enforce our trademark, service mark and trade name rights in the United States and abroad. 

Patents. We possess rights to a number of U.S. and foreign patents relating to various aspects of our security and inspection products, healthcare products and optoelectronic devices and subsystems. Our current patents will expire at various times between 2016 and 2035. However, it remains possible that pending patent applications or other applications that may be filed may not result in issued patents. In addition, issued patents may not survive challenges to their validity or enforceability, or may be found to not be infringed by any third parties. Although we believe that our patents have value, our patents, or any additional patents that may be issued in the future, may not be able to provide meaningful protection from competition. 

Licenses. Our Security, Healthcare and Optoelectronics and Manufacturing divisions have each entered into a variety of license arrangements under which certain third parties are permitted to manufacture, market, and/or sell a limited number of the products that we offer and/or to service various types of software, data, equipment, components and enhancements to our own proprietary technology. 

We believe that our trademarks and tradenames, patents and licenses are important to our business. The loss of some of our trademarks, patents or licenses might have a negative impact on our financial results and operations. Nevertheless, with the exception of the loss of either the Spacelabs&#174; or Rapiscan&#174; trademarks, the impact of the loss of any single trademark, patent or license would not likely have a material adverse effect on our business. As of 

June 30, 2016, the Spacelabs brand is protected by both pending and registered trademarks in 29 countries; and the Rapiscan brand is protected by both pending and registered trademarks in 19 countries. 

Regulation of Medical Devices 

The patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, principally the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and by other federal, state, local and foreign authorities. These systems are also subject to various U.S. and foreign electrical safety standards. Our medical device product candidates must undergo an extensive government regulatory clearance or approval process prior to sale in the United States and other countries, and the lengthy process of clinical development and submissions for approvals, as well as the continuing need for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. 

United States. In the United States, the FDA has broad regulatory powers with respect to pre-clinical and clinical testing of new medical devices and the designing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, advertising, promotion, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting and import and export of medical devices. Unless an exemption applies, federal law and FDA regulations require that all new or significantly modified medical devices introduced into the market be preceded either by a pre-market notification clearance order under section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), or an approved pre-market approval (PMA) application. Under the FDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes&#151;Class I, Class II or Class III&#151;depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to provide reasonable assurances with respect to safety and effectiveness. Class I devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be reasonably assured by adherence to a set of regulations, referred to as General Controls, which require compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR) facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse events and malfunctions, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling and promotional materials. Some Class I devices, also called Class I reserved devices, also require premarket clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process described below. Most Class I products are exempt from the premarket notification requirements. 

Class II devices are those that are subject to the General Controls, as well as Special Controls, which can include performance standards, guidelines and post-market surveillance. Most Class II devices are subject to premarket review and clearance by the FDA. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process. Under the 510(k) process, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a premarket notification, demonstrating that the product for which clearance has been sought is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA had not yet called for the submission of pre-market approval applications. To be substantially equivalent, the proposed device must have the same intended use as the predicate device, and either have the same technological characteristics as the predicate device or have different technological characteristics and not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness than the predicate device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. 

After a 510(k) notice is submitted, the FDA determines whether to accept it for substantive review. If it lacks necessary information for substantive review, the FDA will refuse to accept the 510(k) notification. If it is accepted for filing, the FDA begins a substantive review. By statute, the FDA is required to complete its review of a 510(k) notification within 90 days of receiving the 510(k) notification. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer, and clearance is never assured. Although many 510(k) premarket notifications are cleared without clinical data, the FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence, which may significantly prolong the review process. If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device. 

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a new or major change in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or, depending on the modification, could require a PMA application. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer's determination regarding whether a new premarket submission is required for the modification of an existing device, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval of a PMA application is obtained. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or approval of a PMA application for any modifications to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain this clearance or approval. In addition, in these circumstances, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties for failure to submit the requisite PMA application(s). In addition, the FDA is currently evaluating the 510(k) process and may make substantial changes to industry requirements. 

Class III devices include devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk such as life-supporting or life-sustaining devices, or implantable devices, in addition to those deemed not substantially equivalent following the 510(k) process. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be reasonably assured solely by the General Controls and Special Controls described above. Therefore, these devices are subject to the PMA application process, which is generally more costly and time consuming than the 510(k) process. To date, all of the patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems we manufacture and sell in the United States have required only 510(k) pre-market notification clearance. 

FDA clearance or approval, when granted, may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed, and such product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Manufacturers of FDA-regulated products are subject to pervasive and continuing governmental regulation, including, but not limited to, the registration and listing regulation, which requires manufacturers to register all manufacturing facilities and list all medical devices placed into commercial distribution; the QSR, which requires manufacturers, including third party manufacturers, to follow elaborate design, testing, production, control, supplier/contractor selection, complaint handling, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations and unique device identification requirements; advertising and promotion requirements; restrictions on sale, distribution or use of a device; PMA annual reporting requirements; the FDA's general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or "off-label" uses; the Medical Device Reporting (MDR) regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to reoccur; medical device correction and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health; recall requirements, including a mandatory recall if there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death; an order of repair, replacement or refund; device tracking requirements; and post-approval study and post-market surveillance requirements. The FDA has also established a Unique Device Identification ("UDI") system that will be phased in over several years. The UDI system requires manufacturers to mark certain medical devices distributed in the United States with unique device identifiers. 

Our facilities, records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA. Failure to comply with the applicable United States medical device regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, civil penalties, unanticipated expenditures, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, operating restrictions, total or partial suspension of production, the FDA's refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries, the FDA's refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current product clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution. 

In August 2014, the FDA issued a warning letter to our Healthcare division relating primarily to the maintenance of certain procedures and internal processes at our facility in Snoqualmie, Washington. We have implemented corrective actions as a result of the warning letter and provided the FDA with a detailed response regarding our completed and in process activities. However, there can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with our response to the warning letter or our proposed resolution of the outstanding issues. Until the items raised in the warning letter are fully corrected, we may be subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA, including the issuance of additional warning letters, injunction, seizure or recall of products, imposition of fines or penalties or operating restrictions on our facilities. Such actions could significantly disrupt our ongoing business and operations and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. 

Foreign Regulation. We are also subject to regulation in the foreign countries in which we manufacture and market our patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems. For example, the commercialization of medical devices in the European Union is regulated under a system that presently requires all medical devices sold in the European Union to bear the CE mark&#151;an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards. Our manufacturing facilities in Hawthorne, California; Snoqualmie, Washington; Rottweil, Germany, Johor Bahru, Malaysia; Batam, Indonesia; Hyderabad, India; and Suzhou, China are all certified to the International Organization for Standardization's ISO 13485 standard for medical device quality management systems. Our Hawthorne, California, Snoqualmie, Washington and Rottweil, Germany facilities are also certified to the requirements of Annex II, section 3 of the Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices, which allows them to self-certify that manufactured products can bear the CE mark. Further, the implementation of the Restriction of Hazardous Substance Directive ("ROHS") requires that medical devices shipped into the European Union eliminate targeted ROHS substances effective July 23, 2014. 

Coverage and Reimbursement. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness therapies, technology assessments and managed care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the United States, Europe and Asia. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. In addition, because there is generally no separate reimbursement from third-party payers to our customers for many of our products, the additional costs associated with the use of our products can impact the profit margin of our customers. Accordingly, these various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over healthcare products generally and may impact demand for our products and technologies. 

Healthcare cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical devices to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power, and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing power, may attempt to increase the pressure on product pricing. 

In 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. Among other things, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which we refer to collectively as the Affordable Care Act, requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices, which went into effect in 2013. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, signed into law in December 2015, includes a two-year moratorium (January 1, 2016 - December 31, 2017) on the excise tax. It is not clear at this time whether the moratorium will be extended, or what the full impact of the Affordable Care Act will be. 

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was signed into law, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending 

reductions. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will stay in effect through 2024, unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (ATRA) was signed into law which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals and imaging centers. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure. 

Other Healthcare Laws. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing and promotion of drugs and devices, other federal and state laws restrict our business practices. These laws include, without limitation, data privacy and security laws, anti-kickback and false claims laws, and transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. 

As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are subject to extensive regulations protecting the privacy and security of patient health information that we receive, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH), which was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Among other things, these regulations impose extensive requirements for maintaining the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, known as "protected health information." The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt state laws and regulations relating to personal information that may also apply to us. Our failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, to induce or in return for the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of items or services for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term "remuneration" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Further, a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval to the federal government, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes "any request or demand" for money or property presented to the U.S. Government. Medical device manufacturers have been held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing customers with inaccurate billing or coding information. 

The HIPAA provisions also created federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Like the Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statutes or specific intent to violate them in order to have committed a violation. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that may be broader in scope and 

may apply regardless of payer, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. 

These laws impact the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals or other potential purchasers of our products. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the health regulatory laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant criminal and civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. 

Additionally, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments and other transfers of value provided to healthcare professionals or entities. The federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act requires that certain device manufacturers track and report to the government information regarding payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their family members. A manufacturer's failure to submit timely, accurately and completely the required information for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year, and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for "knowing failures." Certain states also mandate implementation of compliance programs, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to healthcare professionals and entities. 

We are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, within the European Union, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. The member states of the European Union closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. We could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. Industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. If these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 

Environmental Regulations 

We are subject to various environmental laws, directives, and regulations pertaining to the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances used, and hazardous wastes generated, in the manufacture of our products. Such laws mandate the use of controls and practices designed to mitigate the impact of our operations on the environment, and under such laws we may be held liable for the costs associated with the remediation and removal of any unintended or previously unknown releases of hazardous substances on, beneath or from our property and associated operations, including the remediation of hazardous waste disposed off-site. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes or cessation of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We believe that, except to an extent that would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we are currently in compliance with all environmental regulations in connection with our manufacturing operations, and that we have obtained all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. The amount of hazardous substances used, and hazardous wastes generated, by us may increase in the future depending on changes in our operations. To ensure compliance and practice proper due diligence, we conduct appropriate environmental audits and investigations at our manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia Pacific, and Europe, and, to the extent practicable, on all new properties. Our manufacturing facilities conduct 

regular internal audits to ensure proper environmental permits and controls are in place to meet changes in operations. Third-party investigations address matters related to current and former occupants and operations, historical land use, and regulatory oversight and status of associated properties and/or operations (including surrounding properties). The purpose of these studies is to identify, as of the date of such report, potential areas of environmental concern related to past and present activities or from nearby operations. The scope and extent of each investigation is dependent upon the size and complexity of the property and/or operation and on recommendations by independent environmental consultants. 

During one such investigation at our Hawthorne, California facility, we discovered soil and groundwater contamination that we believe was the result of unspecified on- and off-site releases occurring prior to our occupancy. Historical usage of this site includes semiconductor and electronics manufacturing, dating back to the mid-1960s, as well as possible aircraft and related manufacturing dating back to the early 1940s. Similar operations, including chemical manufacturing and storage, were conducted at neighboring sites throughout that period and into the 1990s. It is not presently known when the releases occurred or by whom they were caused, though our records, in conjunction with data obtained from soil and groundwater surveys, support our assertion that these releases are historical in nature. The groundwater contamination is a known regional issue, not limited to our premises or our immediate surroundings. We filed the requisite reports concerning this site with the appropriate environmental authorities upon discovery, and in cooperation with the local governing agency, have provided additional historical information and conducted further site characterization studies. Recent activities include the installation of groundwater monitoring wells, indoor air quality monitoring and additional soil and soil vapor studies. Results from these studies are being evaluated to determine the extent of the on-site releases as well as appropriate and cost-effective remedial action measures. Periodic groundwater monitoring is expected to continue until such time as the governing authority requests further action. 

Competition 

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by evolving customer needs and rapid technological change. We compete with a number of other manufacturers, some of which have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, have stronger customer relationships, have greater name recognition and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully against designers and manufacturers of specialized electronic systems and components or within the markets for security and inspection systems, patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia systems and defibrillator products or optoelectronic devices. Future competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

In the security and inspection market, competition is based primarily on factors such as product performance, functionality and quality, government regulatory approvals and qualifications, the overall cost effectiveness of the system, prior customer relationships, technological capabilities of the products, price, local market presence and breadth of sales and service organization. We believe that our principal competitors in the market for security and inspection products are Smiths Detection; L-3 Communications&#151;Security and Detection Systems division; American Science and Engineering; Morpho Detection; Leidos; CEIA; Gilardoni, Nuctech and Astrophysics. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. Although our competitors offer products in competition with one or more of our products, we can supply a variety of system types and offer among the widest array of solutions available from a single supplier. This variety of technologies also permits us to offer unique hybrid systems to our customers that utilize two or more of these technologies, thereby optimizing flexibility, performance and cost to meet the customer's unique application requirements. 

In the patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia systems delivery and defibrillator market, competition is also based on a variety of factors including product performance, functionality, value and breadth of 

sales and service organization. We believe that our principal competitors in the market for patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, anesthesia systems and related supplies are Philips Healthcare; GE Healthcare; Mindray Medical; Mortara Instrument; Dr&#228;ger Medical; Nihon Kohden; Penlon, Maquet and Welch Allyn. We believe that our principal competitors in the market for our defibrillator products are Koninklijke Philips N.V., Zoll Medical Corporation, Physio-Control, Inc. and Cardiac Science. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of our market share. We believe that our patient monitoring products are easier to use than the products of many of our competitors because we offer a consistent user interface throughout many of our product lines. We also believe that the capability of our monitoring systems to connect together, and to the hospital IT infrastructure, is a key competitive advantage. Further, while some of our competitors are also beginning to introduce portal technology, which allows remote access to data from the bedside monitor, central station or other point of care, we believe that our competing technologies bring valuable, instant access to labs, radiology and charting at the point of care. Additionally, our defibrillator products have the ability to control the amount of current administered to a patient, which sets our products apart from a number of competitive products. 

In the markets in which we compete to provide optoelectronic devices and electronics manufacturing services, competition is based primarily on such factors as expertise in the design and development of optoelectronic devices, product quality, timeliness of delivery, price, customer technical support and the ability to provide fully integrated services from application development and design through production. We believe that our major competitors in the optoelectronic device markets where we provide products and services are Hamamatsu Photonics, First Sensor and Excelitas Technologies. Because we specialize in custom subsystems requiring a high degree of engineering expertise, we believe that we generally do not compete to any significant degree with any other large United States, European or Asian manufacturers of standard optoelectronic components. Competition in the extensive electronic manufacturing services market ranges from multinational corporations with sales in excess of several billions of dollars, to large regional competitors and to small local assembly companies. In our experience, the OEM customers to whom we provide such services prefer to engage companies that offer both local and lower-cost off-shore facilities. We believe that our primary domestic competitors for these services are Flextronics, Benchmark Electronics, Plexus, Qual Pro, ESC and Express Manufacturing Inc. In the United Kingdom, our primary competitors are STI Limited, AsteelFlash and other regional companies. In addition, our high-volume, low-cost contract manufacturing locations in Southeast Asia compete with other manufacturers in the same region. 

Backlog 

We currently measure our backlog as quantifiable purchase orders or contracts that have been signed, for which revenues are expected to be recognized within the next five years. In instances where we are not able to estimate the value of a purchase order or contract they are not included in backlog. 

We ship most of our baggage and parcel inspection, people screening, patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology and anesthesia systems and optoelectronic devices and value-added subsystems within one to several months after receiving an order. However, such shipments may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including any special design or requirements of the customer. In addition, large orders of security and inspection products typically require greater lead-times. Fulfillment of orders of our Rapiscan RTT hold (checked) baggage screening equipment generally requires longer lead times. Further, we provide turnkey screening services to certain customers for which we may recognize revenue over multi-year periods. 

Certain of our cargo and vehicle inspection systems may require up to a year of lead-time. We have experienced some significant shipping delays associated with our cargo and vehicle inspection systems. Such delays can occur for many reasons, including: (i) additional time necessary to coordinate and conduct factory inspections with the customer before shipment; (ii) a customer's need to engage in time-consuming special site preparation to accommodate the system, over which we have no control or responsibility; (iii) additional fine tuning of such systems once they are installed; (iv) design or specification changes by the customer; (v) time needed to obtain export licenses and/or letters of credit; and (vi) delays originating from other contractors on the project. 

As of June 30, 2016, our consolidated backlog totaled approximately $623 million, compared to approximately $638 million as of June 30, 2015. Approximately $163 million of our backlog as of June 30, 2016 is not reasonably expected to be fulfilled in fiscal year 2017. This backlog includes the large turnkey security screening program in Mexico that we were awarded in fiscal 2012. As the revenue generated from this program is recognized, the corresponding backlog decreases. Sales orders underlying our backlog are firm orders; although, from time to time we may agree to permit a customer to cancel an order or an order may be cancelled for other reasons. Variations in the size of orders, product mix, or delivery requirements, among other factors, may result in substantial fluctuations in backlog from period to period. Backlog as of any particular date should not be relied upon as indicative of our revenues for any future period and cannot be considered a meaningful indicator of our performance on an annual or quarterly basis. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we employed approximately 5,847 people, of whom 3,287 were employed in manufacturing, 421 were employed in engineering or research and development, 543 were employed in administration, 376 were employed in sales and marketing and 1,220 were employed in service capacities. Of the total employees, 2,064 were employed in the Americas, 2,964 were employed in Asia and 819 were employed in Europe. Many of our employees in Europe have statutory collective bargaining rights. We have never experienced a work stoppage or strike, and management believes that our relations with our employees are good. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the Securities and Exchange Commission at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers are required to file electronically. 

Our internet address is: http://www.osi-systems.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We make available, free of charge through our internet website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and reports filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our website free of charge are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Charters of our Nominating and Governance, Audit, Compensation and Executive Committees of our Board of Directors and our Code of Ethics and Conduct (which applies to all Directors and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer). A copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon written request addressed to: c/o Secretary, OSI Systems, Inc., 12525 Chadron Avenue, Hawthorne, CA 90250 or by calling telephone number (310) 978-0516. 

