 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Oshkosh Corporation is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range of specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies. The Company partners with customers to deliver superior solutions that safely and efficiently move people and materials at work, around the globe, and around the clock. The Company began business in 1917 as an early pioneer of four-wheel drive technology, and off road mobility technology remains one of its core competencies. The Company maintains four reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: access equipment, defense, fire &#38; emergency and commercial, which comprised 48.0%, 21.5%, 15.0% and 15.5%, respectively, of the Company&#8217;s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016 . These segments, in some way, all share common customers and distribution channels, leverage common components and suppliers, utilize common technologies and manufacturing processes and share employees and manufacturing and distribution facilities, which results in the Company being an integrated specialty vehicle manufacturer. The Company made approximately 19% , 15% &#32;and 24% &#32;of its net sales for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information related to the Company&#8217;s business segments. 

JLG, a global manufacturer of aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, agricultural, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to position workers and materials at elevated heights, forms the base of the Company&#8217;s access equipment segment. JLG&#8217;s customers include equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. The access equipment segment also includes Jerr-Dan-branded tow trucks (wreckers) and roll-back vehicle carriers (carriers) sold to towing companies in the U.S. and abroad. 

The Company's defense segment has manufactured and sold military tactical wheeled vehicles to the DoD for more than 90 years. In 1981, Oshkosh Defense was awarded the first Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck (HEMTT) contract for the DoD and thereafter developed into the DoD&#8217;s leading supplier of severe-duty, heavy-payload tactical trucks. Since that time, Oshkosh Defense has broadened its product offerings to become the leading manufacturer of severe-duty, heavy- and medium-payload tactical trucks for the DoD, manufacturing vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for combat units and light-payload tactical vehicles, through its Mine Resistant Ambush Protected All Terrain Vehicles (M-ATV). In October 2011, Oshkosh Defense introduced the Light Combat All-Terrain Vehicle (L-ATV) to continue to expand its light protected tactical wheeled vehicle offering. The L-ATV incorporates field-proven technologies, advanced armor solutions and expeditionary levels of off-road mobility to redefine safety and performance standards. The L-ATV also is designed for future growth, with the ability to accept additional armor packages and technology upgrades as the mission requires. The L-ATV was Oshkosh Defense's entrant in the DoD's Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) competition. In August 2015, the DoD awarded the Company an eight-year fixed price contract valued at $6.7 billion for the production and delivery of approximately 17,000 (subsequently increased to over 18,000) vehicles and sustaining services under the U.S. Army and Marine Corps JLTV program. The JLTV program is expected to be a 20-year, $30 billion program for the production of up to 55,000 vehicles as well as support services and engineering. The Company believes that international interest in the JLTV will contribute to strong demand for this revolutionary new defense vehicle. 

The Company&#8217;s fire &#38; emergency segment manufactures custom and commercial firefighting vehicles and equipment, aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) vehicles, snow removal vehicles, simulators and other emergency vehicles primarily sold to fire departments, airports and other governmental units in the Americas and abroad and broadcast vehicles sold to broadcasters and television stations in the Americas and abroad. 

The Company&#8217;s commercial segment manufactures rear- and front-discharge concrete mixers, refuse collection vehicles, portable and stationary concrete batch plants and vehicle components sold to ready-mix companies and commercial and municipal waste haulers in North America and other international markets and field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes sold to mining, construction and other companies in the Americas and abroad. 

Competitive Strengths 

The following competitive strengths support the Company&#8217;s business strategy: 

Strong Market Positions. &#32;The Company has developed strong market positions and brand recognition in its core businesses, which it attributes to its reputation for quality products, advanced engineering, innovation, vehicle performance, reliability, customer service and low total product life cycle costs. The Company maintains leading market shares in all its businesses and is the sole-source supplier of a number of vehicles to the DoD. 

Diversified Product Offering. &#32;The Company believes its broad product offerings and target markets serve to diversify its sources of revenues, mitigate the impact of economic cycles and provide multiple platforms for potential organic growth and acquisitions. The Company&#8217;s product offerings provide extensive opportunities for bundling of products for sale to customers, co-location of manufacturing, leveraging purchasing power and sharing technology within and between segments. For each of its target markets, the Company has developed or acquired a broad product line in an effort to become a single-source provider of specialty vehicles, vehicle bodies, parts and service and related products to its customers. In addition, the Company has established an extensive domestic and international distribution system for specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies tailored to each market. 

Quality Products and Customer Service. &#32;The Company has developed strong brand recognition for its products as a result of its commitment to meet the stringent product quality and reliability requirements of its customers in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets it serves. The Company frequently achieves premium pricing due to the durability and low life cycle costs for its products. The Company also provides high quality customer service through its extensive parts and service support programs, which are generally available to customers 365 days a year in all product lines throughout the Company&#8217;s distribution systems. 

Innovative and Proprietary Components. &#32;The Company&#8217;s advanced design and engineering capabilities have contributed to the development of innovative and/or proprietary, severe-duty components that enhance vehicle performance, reduce manufacturing costs and strengthen customer relationships. The Company&#8217;s advanced design and engineering capabilities have also allowed it to integrate many of these components across various product lines, which enhances its ability to compete for new business and reduces its costs to manufacture its products compared to manufacturers who simply assemble purchased components. 

Flexible and Efficient Manufacturing. &#32;The Company believes it has competitive advantages over larger vehicle manufacturers in its specialty vehicle markets due to its product quality, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution systems. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines and which allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. 

Strong Management Team. &#32;The Company is led by President and Chief Executive Officer Wilson R. Jones who has been employed by the Company since 2005. Mr. Jones succeeds the former Chief Executive Officer, Charles L. Szews, who retired from the Company effective December 31, 2015. Mr. Jones is complemented by an experienced senior management team that has been assembled through internal promotions and new hires. The management team has successfully executed a strategic reshaping and expansion of the Company's business, which has positioned the Company to be a global leader in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets. 

Business Strategy 

The Company is focused on increasing its net sales, profitability and cash flow and maintaining a strong balance sheet by capitalizing on its competitive strengths and pursuing an integrated business strategy. The Company completed a comprehensive strategic planning process in fiscal 2011 with the assistance of a globally-recognized consulting firm that culminated in the creation of the Company&#8217;s roadmap, named MOVE, to deliver outstanding long-term shareholder value. The Company reassessed the MOVE strategy in fiscal 2016 and concluded that opportunities remained for MOVE to continue to guide the Company's path forward. The Company has recommitted itself to a refreshed MOVE strategy and expects to continue to pursue and measure itself against MOVE initiatives in 2017 and beyond. 

The updated MOVE strategy consists of the following four key initiatives: 

M arket Leader Delighting Customers. &#32;This initiative focuses on growing profitability by maintaining intense focus on customer experience. By tapping into the voice of the customer, the Company aims to deliver superior products and services under this initiative. The Company drives consistent customer experience through the use of standard processes and tools throughout the organization. Customers derive value by working with a partner that provides total customer care throughout the product life cycle. The Company's goal is to delight its customers. 

O ptimize Cost and Capital Structure. &#32;This initiative focuses on optimizing the Company's cost and capital structure (&#8220;O&#8221; initiative) to provide value for customers and shareholders by aggressively attacking its product, process and overhead costs and opportunistically using its expected free cash flow to return capital to shareholders or invest in acquisition opportunities. The Company utilizes a comprehensive lean enterprise focus to drive to be a low cost producer in all of its product lines while sustaining premium product features and quality and to deliver low product life cycle costs for its customers. Lean is a methodology to eliminate non-value added work from a process stream. The Company also embraces organizational simplification by focusing on what drives value to customers and objectively allocating time and resources in these areas. As a result of its focus on cost optimization, the Company expects to more efficiently utilize its manufacturing facilities, increase inventory turns, reduce product, process and overhead costs, lower manufacturing lead times and new product development cycle times and increase its operating income margins. The Company is targeting a $55 million year over year cost reduction under the &#8220;O&#8221; initiative in fiscal 2017. 

V alue Innovation. &#32;This initiative focuses on emphasizing the Company's new product development as it seeks to expand sales and margins by leading its core markets in the introduction of new or improved products and technologies. The Company primarily uses internal development but also uses licensing of technology and strategic acquisitions to execute multi-generational product plans in each of the Company&#8217;s businesses. The Company actively seeks to commercialize emerging technologies that are capable of expanding customer uses of its products. The Company is targeting that new product sales will drive 15% - 20% of its fiscal 2017 revenue. 

E merging Market Growth. &#32;This initiative focuses on the Company's continued expansion into those specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets globally where it has acquired or can acquire strong market positions over time and where it believes it can leverage synergies in purchasing, manufacturing, technology and distribution to increase sales and profitability. Business development teams actively pursue new customers in targeted developing countries in Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. In pursuit of this strategy, the Company has sales and service offices in Russia, India, Saudi Arabia, China, South Korea and Japan to pursue various opportunities in each of those countries. In addition, the Company recently expanded its sales and aftermarket personnel in multiple countries in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. The Company would also consider selectively pursuing strategic acquisitions to enhance the Company&#8217;s product offerings and expand its international presence in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets. The Company is targeting a 15% - 20% increase in international sales under this initiative in fiscal 2017. 

Products 

The Company is focused on the following core segments of the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets: 

Access equipment segment. &#32;JLG manufactures aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, agricultural, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to position workers and materials at elevated heights. In addition, through a long-term license with Caterpillar Inc. that extends through 2025, JLG produces Caterpillar-branded telehandlers for distribution through the worldwide Caterpillar Inc. dealer network. JLG also produces a line of telehandlers for the European agricultural market under a license from SAME Deutz-Fahr and sells SAME Deutz-Fahr-branded telehandlers directly to SAME Deutz-Fahr's dealer network. Through its acquisition of Power Towers Ltd. in 2015, the Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of low level access equipment in the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East. Power Towers Ltd. offers a range of award-winning low level lifts, both self-propelled and push around types, to meet the demands of the rapidly expanding low level access market within the access equipment industry. 

Access equipment customers include equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. JLG&#8217;s products are marketed worldwide through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase these products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other sales and service branches or organizations in which the Company holds equity positions. 

JLG also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Financing arrangements that JLG offers or arranges through this segment include various types of rental fleet loans and leases, as well as floor plan and retail financing. Terms of these arrangements vary depending on the type of transaction, but typically range between 36 and 72 months and generally require the customer to be responsible for insurance, taxes and maintenance of the equipment, and to bear the risk of damage to or loss of the equipment. 

The Company, through its Jerr-Dan brand, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of towing and recovery equipment in the U.S. The Company believes Jerr-Dan is recognized as an industry leader in quality and innovation. Jerr-Dan offers a complete line of both carriers and wreckers. In addition to manufacturing equipment, Jerr-Dan provides its customers with one-stop service for carriers and wreckers and generates revenue from the installation of equipment, as well as the sale of chassis and service parts. 

Defense segment. &#32;The Company, through Oshkosh Defense, has sold products to the DoD for over 90 years. Oshkosh Defense also exports tactical wheeled vehicles to approved foreign customers. By successfully responding to the DoD's changing vehicle requirements, Oshkosh Defense has become the leading manufacturer of Heavy, Medium, and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) tactical wheeled vehicles and related service and sustainment for the DoD and has expanded its product offerings to include light tactical wheeled vehicles. Oshkosh Defense manufactures vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for a broad range of missions. Oshkosh Defense's proprietary military product line of heavy-payload tactical wheeled vehicles includes the HEMTT, the Heavy Equipment Transporter (HET), the Palletized Load System (PLS), and the Logistic Vehicle System Replacement (LVSR). Oshkosh Defense's proprietary military medium-payload tactical wheeled vehicles include the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR). Oshkosh Defense's proprietary M-ATV was specifically designed with superior survivability as well as extreme off-road mobility for use in conditions similar to those encountered in the conflict in Afghanistan. 

In June 2009, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a sole source contract for M-ATVs and associated aftermarket parts packages. Since receiving the initial contract award Oshkosh Defense has delivered over 8,700 M-ATVs domestically and over 1,600 M-ATVs internationally. In fiscal 2016 Oshkosh Defense completed contract requirements to deliver 273 M-ATVs to an international customer and began to perform under a separate international contract delivering 325 M-ATVs. The Company expects to deliver approximately 1,000 more M-ATVs under this contract in fiscal 2017. 

In August 2009, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a contract to be the sole producer of FMTVs under the U.S. Army's FMTV Rebuy program. Originally a five-year requirements contract, in fiscal 2015 the DoD extended the FMTV Rebuy program to allow for the delivery of vehicles and trailers through February 2017. In September 2016, the U.S. Army extended the FMTV contract through a contract modification that included orders to Oshkosh Defense to produce FMTV trucks and trailers through July 2018. A competitor filed a protest with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) challenging the contract extension to Oshkosh Defense. This protest was subsequently withdrawn. 

In June 2015, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a new Family of Heavy Tactical Vehicles (FHTV) contract for the recapitalization of HEMTT, HET and PLS vehicles as well as associated logistics and configuration management support. The contract is a five-year requirements contract for the continued remanufacturing of FHTV vehicles through fiscal 2020. The contract is fixed-price incentive firm where the price paid to the Company is subject to adjustment based on actual costs incurred. The impact of pricing adjustments under fixed-price incentive firm contracts are generally shared by the Company and the customer. The Company delivered 1,319 vehicles under this contract in fiscal 2016, with remaining vehicles under contract expected to be delivered through early fiscal 2018. 

In August 2015, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense an eight-year, fixed price JLTV contract valued at $6.7 billion for production and delivery of approximately 17,000 (subsequently increased to over 18,000) vehicles and sustaining services. The JLTV program is expected to be a 20-year, $30 billion program for the production of up to 55,000 vehicles, support services and engineering. The Company began work on the contract in fiscal 2016, delivering its first production JLTV vehicles to the U.S. Army in September 2016. 

In addition to retaining its current defense truck contracts, the Company&#8217;s objective is to continue to diversify into other areas of the U.S. and international defense vehicle markets by expanding applications, uses and vehicle body styles of its current tactical truck lines and growing aftermarket product and service offerings. 

Fire &#32; &#38; emergency segment. &#32;Through Pierce, the Company is the leading domestic manufacturer of fire apparatus assembled on custom chassis, designed and manufactured to meet the special needs of firefighters. Pierce also manufactures fire apparatus assembled on commercially available chassis, which are produced for multiple end-customer applications. Pierce&#8217;s engineering expertise allows it to design its vehicles to meet stringent industry guidelines and government regulations for safety and effectiveness. Pierce primarily serves domestic municipal customers, but also sells fire apparatus to the DoD, airports, universities and large industrial companies, and increasingly in international markets. Pierce&#8217;s history of innovation and research and development in consultation with firefighters has resulted in a broad product line that features a wide range of innovative, high-quality custom and commercial firefighting equipment with advanced fire suppression capabilities. In an effort to be a single-source supplier for its customers, Pierce offers a full line of custom and commercial fire apparatus and emergency vehicles, including pumpers, aerial platform, ladder and tiller trucks, tankers, light-, medium- and heavy-duty rescue vehicles, wildland rough terrain response vehicles, mobile command and control centers, bomb squad vehicles, hazardous materials control vehicles and other emergency response vehicles. 

The Company, through Airport Products, is among the leaders in sales of ARFF vehicles to domestic and international airports. These highly-specialized vehicles are required to be in service at most airports worldwide to support commercial airlines in the event of an emergency. Many of the world&#8217;s largest airports, including LaGuardia International Airport, O&#8217;Hare International Airport, Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, Denver International Airport, Baltimore-Washington International Airport, and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in the U.S., are served by the Company&#8217;s ARFF vehicles. The U.S. Government also maintains a fleet of ARFF vehicles that are used to support military operations throughout the world. Internationally, the Company's vehicles serve, among others, Beijing, China and more than twenty other airports in China; Singapore; Toronto and Quebec, Canada; Abu Dhabi, UAE; Birmingham, Cardiff, Manchester and Liverpool, United Kingdom; and Moscow, Russia. The Company has recently delivered ARFF vehicles to multiple airports throughout Kuwait, Southeast Asia, Papua New Guinea, Mexico, Chile and Argentina. The Company believes that the performance and reliability of its ARFF vehicles contribute to the Company&#8217;s strong position in this market. 

The Company, through Airport Products, is a global leader in airport snow removal vehicles. The Company&#8217;s specially designed airport snow removal vehicles are used by some of the largest airports in the world, including Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport and O&#8217;Hare International Airport in the U.S. and Beijing, China; Incheon, South Korea; and Toronto and Montreal, Canada internationally. The Company believes that the reliability of its high-performance snow removal vehicles and the speed with which they clear airport runways contribute to its strong position in this market. 

The Company, through its Frontline brand, is a leading manufacturer, system designer and integrator of broadcast and communication vehicles, including electronic field production trailers, satellite news gathering and electronic news gathering vehicles for broadcasters and command trucks for local and federal governments along with being a leading supplier of military simulator shelters and trailers. The Company&#8217;s vehicles have been used worldwide to broadcast the NFL Super Bowl, the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics. 

The Company offers three- to fifteen-year municipal lease financing programs to its fire &#38; emergency segment customers in the U.S. through Oshkosh Equipment Finance, LLC, doing business as Oshkosh Capital. Programs include competitive lease financing rates, creative and flexible finance arrangements and the ease of one-stop shopping for customers&#8217; equipment and financing. The Company executes the lease financing transactions through a private label arrangement with an independent third-party finance company. The Company typically provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. 

Commercial segment. &#32;Through Oshkosh Commercial, McNeilus, London and CON-E-CO, the Company is a leading manufacturer of front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers and portable and stationary concrete batch plants for the concrete ready-mix industry throughout the Americas. Through McNeilus, the Company is a leading manufacturer of refuse collection vehicles for the waste services industry throughout the Americas. 

Through IMT, the Company is a leading North American manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. The Company believes its commercial segment vehicles and equipment have a reputation for efficient, cost-effective, dependable and low maintenance operation. 

The Company also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. 

Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Service 

The Company believes it differentiates itself from many of its competitors by tailoring its distribution to the needs of its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets and with its national and global sales and service capabilities. Distribution personnel demonstrate to customers how to use the Company&#8217;s vehicles and vehicle bodies properly. In addition, the Company&#8217;s flexible distribution is focused on meeting customers on their terms, whether on a job site, in an evening public meeting or at a municipality&#8217;s offices, compared to the showroom sales approach of the typical dealers of large vehicle manufacturers. The Company backs all products with same-day parts shipment, and its service technicians are available in person or by telephone to domestic customers 365 days a year. The Company believes its dedication to keeping its products in-service in demanding conditions worldwide has contributed to customer loyalty. 

The Company provides its salespeople, representatives and distributors with product and sales training on the operation and specifications of its products. The Company&#8217;s engineers, along with its product managers, develop operating manuals and provide field support at vehicle delivery. 

U.S. dealers and representatives enter into agreements with the Company that allow for termination by either party generally upon 90 days' notice, subject to applicable laws. Dealers and representatives, except for those utilized by JLG and IMT, are generally not permitted to market and sell competitive products. 

Access equipment segment. &#32;JLG&#8217;s products are marketed across six continents through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase JLG products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other Company owned sales and service branches. JLG maintains a broad internal sales force that is comprised of employees worldwide. Sales employees are dedicated to specific major customers, channels or geographic regions. JLG&#8217;s international sales employees are spread among JLG&#8217;s approximately 20 international sales and service offices. 

JLG produces a variety of its own branded telehandlers and manufactures the Caterpillar-branded telehandlers under a license to Caterpillar Inc. for their worldwide Caterpillar Inc. distribution network. JLG also produces a line of telehandlers for the European agricultural market under a license from SAME Deutz-Fahr and sells SAME Deutz-Fahr-branded telehandlers directly to SAME Deutz-Fahr&#8217;s dealer network. 

The Company markets its Jerr-Dan-branded carriers and wreckers through its network of approximately 60 independent distributors. 

Defense segment. &#32;Oshkosh Defense sells substantially all of its domestic defense products directly to principal branches of the DoD and has sold its defense products to more than 20 international militaries around the globe. Oshkosh Defense maintains a liaison office in Washington, D.C. to represent its interests with the U.S. Congress, the offices of the Executive Branch of the U.S. government, the Pentagon, as well as international embassies and government agencies. Oshkosh Defense locates its business development, consultants and engineering professionals near its customers' principal commands, both domestically and internationally. Oshkosh Defense also sells and services defense products to approved international governments as Direct Commercial Sales or Foreign Military Sales via U.S. government channels. Oshkosh Defense supports international sales through international sales offices, as well as through dealers, distributors and representatives. 

In addition to marketing its current tactical wheeled vehicle offerings and competing for new contracts, Oshkosh Defense actively works with the U.S. Armed Services to develop new applications for its vehicles and expand its services. 

Logistics services are increasingly important in the defense market. The Company believes that its proven worldwide logistics capabilities and internet-based ordering, invoicing and electronic payment systems have significantly contributed to the expansion of its defense parts and service business since fiscal 2002, following the commencement of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. Oshkosh Defense maintains a large parts distribution warehouse in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to fulfill stringent parts delivery schedule requirements, as well as satellite facilities near DoD bases in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East. 

Fire &#38; emergency segment. &#32;The Company believes the geographic breadth, size and quality of its Pierce fire apparatus sales and service organization are competitive advantages in a market characterized by a few large manufacturers and numerous small, regional competitors. Pierce&#8217;s fire apparatus are sold through approximately 30 independent sales and service organizations with hundreds of sales representatives in the U.S. and Canada, which combine broad geographical reach with frequency of contact with fire departments and municipal government officials. These sales and service organizations are supported by product and marketing support professionals and contract administrators at Pierce. The Company believes frequency of contact and local presence are important to cultivate major, and typically infrequent, purchases involving the city or town council, fire department, purchasing, finance and mayoral offices, among others, that may participate in a fire apparatus bid and selection process. After the sale, Pierce&#8217;s nationwide local parts and service capability is available to help municipalities maintain peak readiness for this vital municipal service. Pierce also sells directly to the DoD and other U.S. government agencies. Many of the Pierce fire apparatus sold to the DoD are placed in service at U.S. military bases, camps and stations overseas. Additionally, Pierce sells fire apparatus to numerous international municipal and industrial fire departments through a network of international dealers. The Company markets its Frontline-branded broadcast vehicles through sales representatives and its Frontline-branded command vehicles through both sales representatives and dealer organizations that are directed at government and commercial customers. 

The Company markets its Oshkosh-branded ARFF vehicles through a combination of direct sales representatives domestically and an extensive network of representatives and distributors in international markets. Certain of these international representatives and distributors also handle Pierce products. The Company's snow removal business uses a combination of internal sales and service representatives and distributor locations to focus on the sale of snow removal vehicles, principally to airports, but also to municipalities, counties and other governmental entities in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, the Company maintains offices in Abu Dhabi, UAE; Beijing, China; Moscow, Russia; Tonneins, France; and Singapore to support airport product vehicle sales and aftermarket sales and support in Europe, the Middle East, China, Russia, South America and Southeast Asia. 

Commercial segment. &#32;The Company operates 28 distribution centers with hundreds of in-house sales and service representatives in North America to sell and service refuse collection vehicles, rear- and front-discharge concrete mixers and concrete batch plants. These centers are in addition to sales and service activities at the Company&#8217;s manufacturing facilities, and they provide sales, service and parts distribution to customers in their geographic regions. The Company also uses independent sales and service organizations to market its CON-E-CO-branded concrete batch plants. The Company believes this network represents one of the largest concrete mixer, concrete batch plant and refuse collection vehicle distribution networks in the U.S. 

The Company believes its direct distribution to customers is a competitive advantage in concrete mixer and refuse collection vehicle markets, particularly in the U.S. waste services industry where principal competitors distribute through dealers and to a lesser extent in the ready mix concrete industry, where several competitors in part use dealers. The Company believes direct distribution permits a more focused sales force in the U.S. concrete mixer and refuse collection vehicle markets, whereas dealers frequently offer a very broad and mixed product line, and accordingly, the time dealers tend to devote to concrete mixer and refuse collection vehicle sales activities is limited. 

The Company also has established an extensive network of representatives and dealers throughout the Americas for the sale of Oshkosh-, McNeilus-, CON-E-CO- and London-branded concrete mixers, concrete batch plants and refuse collection vehicles. The Company coordinates among its various businesses to respond to large international sales tenders with its most appropriate product offering for the tender. 

IMT distributes its products through approximately 90 dealers in over one hundred locations worldwide, including approximately 30 international dealers. International dealers are primarily located in Central and South America, Australia and Asia and are primarily focused on mining and construction markets. 

McNeilus owns a 49% interest in Mezcladoras Trailers de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Mezcladoras), a manufacturer of concrete mixers and small refuse collection vehicle bodies for distribution in Mexico and Latin America. 

Manufacturing 

As of November 22, 2016 , the Company manufactures vehicles and vehicle bodies at 31 manufacturing facilities. To reduce production costs, the Company maintains a continuing emphasis on the development of proprietary components, self-sufficiency in fabrication, just-in-time inventory management, improvement in production flows, interchangeability and simplification of components among product lines, creation of jigs and fixtures to ensure repeatability of quality processes, utilization of robotics, and performance measurement to assure progress toward cost reduction targets. The Company encourages employee involvement to improve production processes and product quality. The Company opened a new state of the art manufacturing facility in Leon, Mexico during fiscal 2015 that is designed to supply components to multiple Company businesses and that is expected to contribute to the attainment of the Company's production initiatives. 

The Company uses a common Quality Management System globally in an effort to deliver consistent, high quality products and services to customers. The Company educates and trains all employees at its facilities in quality principles. The Company encourages employees at all levels of the Company to understand customer and supplier requirements, measure performance, develop systems and procedures to prevent nonconformance with requirements and produce continuous improvement in all work processes. The Company utilizes quality gates at its manufacturing facilities to catch quality issues earlier in the process and to perform a root cause analysis at their source, resulting in improved quality, fewer defects and less rework. ISO 9001 is a set of internationally-accepted quality requirements established by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 certification indicates that a company has established and follows a rigorous set of requirements aimed at achieving customer satisfaction by preventing nonconformity in design, development, production, installation and servicing of products. Most of the Company&#8217;s facilities are ISO 9001 certified. 

The Company has a team of employees dedicated to leading the implementation of the Oshkosh Operating System (OOS). The team is comprised of members with diverse backgrounds in quality, lean, finance, product and process engineering, and culture change management. OOS is a business system that defines and seeks to enhance customers' experiences with the Company's products and services. OOS includes lean tools to eliminate waste out of the Company's processes to provide better value for customers. OOS also assesses customer satisfaction and implements countermeasures to improve the Company's customers' experiences with Oshkosh. OOS enables the Company to execute its MOVE strategy, delivering value to both customers and shareholders. Within the Company&#8217;s facilities, OOS improvement projects have contributed to manufacturing efficiency gains, materials management improvements, steady quality improvements and reduction of lead times. OOS improvement projects have also enabled the Company to free up manufacturing space, allowing it to pursue a program focused on increased vertical integration. 

Engineering, Research and Development 

The Company believes its extensive engineering, research and development capabilities have been key drivers of the Company&#8217;s marketplace success. The Company maintains seven facilities for new product development and testing with a staff of approximately 1,200 engineers and technicians who are dedicated to improving existing products, development and testing of new vehicles, vehicle bodies and components and sustaining its production activities. The Company prepares multi-year new product development plans for each of its markets and measures progress against those plans each month. 

Virtually all of the Company&#8217;s sales of fire apparatus and broadcast vehicles require some level of custom engineering to meet the customer&#8217;s specifications and changing industry standards. Engineering is also a critical factor in defense vehicle markets due to the severe operating conditions under which the Company&#8217;s vehicles are utilized, new customer requirements and stringent government documentation requirements. In the access equipment and commercial segments, product innovation is highly important to meet customers&#8217; changing requirements. Accordingly, in addition to new product development engineers and technicians, the Company maintains an additional permanent staff of engineers and engineering technicians to sustain its production activities, and it regularly outsources some engineering activities in connection with new product development projects. 

For fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company incurred research and development expenditures of $103.1 million , $147.9 million &#32;and $142.0 million , respectively, portions of which were recoverable from customers, principally the U.S. government. Lower spending in fiscal 2016 generally was due to completion of the product design costs associated with Tier IV engine emission requirements in the Company's access equipment segment and JLTV development costs in the defense segment. 

Competition 

In all of the Company&#8217;s segments, competitors include smaller, specialized manufacturers as well as large, mass producers. The Company believes that, in its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets, it has been able to effectively compete against large, mass producers due to its product quality, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution systems. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines and which allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. The Company believes that its competitive cost structure, strategic global purchasing capabilities, engineering expertise, product quality and global distribution and service systems have enabled it to compete effectively. 

Certain of the Company&#8217;s competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and governmental affairs resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s products will continue to compete effectively with the products of competitors or that the Company will be able to retain its customer base or improve or maintain its profit margins on sales to its customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Access equipment segment. &#32;JLG operates in the global construction, maintenance, industrial and agricultural equipment markets. JLG&#8217;s competitors range from some of the world&#8217;s largest multi-national construction equipment manufacturers to small single-product niche manufacturers. Within this global market, competition for sales of aerial work platform equipment includes Genie Industries, Inc. (a subsidiary of Terex Corporation), Skyjack Inc. (a subsidiary of Linamar Corporation), Haulotte Group, Aichi Corporation (a subsidiary of Toyota Industries Corporation) and over 50 other manufacturers. Global competition for sales of telehandler equipment includes the Manitou Group, J C Bamford Excavators Ltd., Merlo SpA, Genie Industries, Inc. and over 30 other manufacturers. In addition, JLG faces competition from numerous manufacturers of other niche products such as boom vehicles, cherry pickers, skid steer loaders, mast climbers, straight mast and vehicle-mounted fork-lifts, rough-terrain and all-terrain cranes, vehicle-mounted cranes, portable material lifts, various types of material handling equipment, scaffolding and the common ladder that offer functionality that is similar to or overlaps that of JLG&#8217;s products. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, product innovation and performance, price, quality, service and support, product availability and the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: premium brand names; broad and single-source product offerings; product quality; product residual values that are generally higher than competitors units; worldwide distribution; safety record; service and support network; global procurement scale; extensive manufacturing capabilities; and cross-division synergies with other segments within Oshkosh Corporation. 

The principal competitor for Jerr-Dan-branded products is Miller Industries, Inc. Principal methods of competition for carriers and wreckers include product quality and innovation, product performance, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths in this market include its high quality, innovative and high-performance product line and its low-cost manufacturing capabilities. 

Defense segment. &#32;Oshkosh Defense produces heavy- and medium-payload, MRAP and light-payload tactical wheeled vehicles for the military and security forces around the world. Competition for sales of these vehicles includes, among others, Man Group plc, Mercedes-Benz (a subsidiary of Daimler AG), Navistar Defense LLC (a subsidiary of Navistar International Corporation), General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin, AM General, BAE Systems plc and Textron Inc. The principal method of competition in the defense segment involves a competitive bid that takes into account factors as determined by the customer, such as price, product performance, product life cycle costs, small and disadvantaged business participation, product quality, adherence to bid specifications, production capability, project management capability, past performance and product support. Usually, the Company's vehicle systems must also pass extensive testing. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: strategic global purchasing capabilities leveraged across multiple business segments; extensive pricing/costing and defense contracting expertise; a significant installed base of vehicles currently in use throughout the world; flexible and high-efficiency vertically-integrated manufacturing capabilities; patented and/or proprietary vehicle components such as TAK-4 family of independent suspension systems, Oshkosh power transfer cases and Command Zone integrated vehicle diagnostics; weapons and communications integration; ability to develop new and improved product capabilities responsive to the needs of its customers; product quality; and aftermarket parts sales and service capabilities. 

The Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act requires competition for defense programs in certain circumstances. Accordingly, it is possible that the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps will conduct competitions for programs for which the Company currently has contracts upon the expiration of the existing contracts. Competition for these and other domestic programs could result in future contracts being awarded based upon different competitive factors than those described above and would primarily include price, production capability and past performance. Current economic conditions have also put significant pressure on the U.S. Federal budget. The overall military drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan and stated defense budget reductions have resulted in lower demand for tactical wheeled vehicles, and future program competitions could involve weighting price more heavily than the past competitive factors described above. In addition, the U.S. government has become more aggressive in seeking to acquire the design rights to the Company's current and potential future programs to facilitate competition for manufacturing our vehicles. The willingness of the bidders to license their design rights to the DoD was an evaluation factor in the JLTV contract competition. 

The Competition in Contracting Act requires competition for U.S. defense programs in most circumstances. Competition for DoD programs that we currently have could result in the U.S. government awarding future contracts to another manufacturer or the U.S. government awarding the contracts to us at lower prices and operating margins than we experience under current contracts. In particular, the DoD has begun a process to recompete the FMTV program. In October 2016, the DoD issued requests for proposal to qualified bidders to submit a proposal to produce FMTVs for a five year period beginning in January 2020. The deadline for proposal submissions is January 2017, and a new FMTV production contract award to the successful bidder is expected in the second half of fiscal 2017. 

Fire &#38; emergency segment. &#32;The Company produces and sells custom and commercial firefighting vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Pierce brand and broadcast vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Frontline brand. Competitors for firefighting vehicles include Rosenbauer International AG, Emergency One, Inc. and Kovatch Mobile Equipment Corp. (both owned by REV Group, Inc.), and numerous smaller, regional manufacturers. The principal competition for broadcast vehicles is from Accelerated Media Technologies and Television Engineering Corporation. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, ability to meet or exceed customer specifications, price, the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions, product innovation, product quality, dealer distribution, and service and support. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: recognized, premium brand name; nationwide network of independent Pierce dealers; extensive, high-quality and innovative product offerings, which include single-source customer solutions for aerials, pumpers and rescue units; large-scale and high-efficiency custom manufacturing capabilities; and proprietary technologies such as the PUC vehicle configuration, TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky foam systems, Command Zone electronics and the new Ascendant 107' aerial fire truck utilizing a single rear axle. 

Airport Products manufactures ARFF vehicles for sale in the U.S. and abroad. Oshkosh&#8217;s principal competitor for ARFF vehicle sales is Rosenbauer International AG. Airport Products also manufactures snow removal vehicles, principally for U.S. and Canadian airports. The Company&#8217;s principal competitors for snow removal vehicle sales are M-B Companies, Inc. and Wausau-Everest LP (owned by Alamo Group, Inc.). Principal methods of competition are product performance, price, service, product quality and innovation. The Company believes its competitive strengths in these airport markets include its high-quality, innovative products and strong dealer support network. 

Commercial segment. &#32;The Company produces front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers and batch plants for the Americas under the Oshkosh, McNeilus, CON-E-CO and London brands. Competition for concrete mixer and batch plant sales includes Beck Industrial, Con-Tech Manufacturing, Inc., Terex Corporation, Continental Mixer Solutions LLC (owned by Specialty Truck Holdings LLC) and other regional competitors. Principal methods of competition are price, service, product features, product quality and product availability. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: strong brand recognition; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; extensive product offerings; high product quality; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; a significant installed base of concrete mixers in use in the marketplace; and its nationwide, Company-owned network of sales and service centers. 

McNeilus also produces refuse collection vehicles for North America and international markets. Competitors include The Heil Company (a subsidiary of Dover Corporation), Labrie Enviroquip Group, New Way (a subsidiary of Scranton Manufacturing Company, Inc.) and other regional competitors. The principal methods of competition are product quality, product performance, service and price. The Company competes for municipal business and large commercial business in the Americas, which is generally based on lowest qualified bid. The Company believes its competitive strengths in the Americas refuse collection vehicle markets include: strong brand recognition; comprehensive product offerings; a reputation for high-quality products; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; and an extensive network of Company-owned sales and service centers located throughout the U.S. 

IMT is a manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. IMT&#8217;s principal field service vehicle competition is from Auto Crane Company (owned by Gridiron Capital), Stellar Industries, Inc., Maintainer Corporation of Iowa, Inc. and other regional companies. Competition in truck-mounted cranes comes primarily from European companies including Palfinger AG, Cargotec Corporation and Fassi Group SpA. Principal methods of competition are product quality, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths include its high-quality products, global distribution network and low-cost manufacturing capabilities. 

Customers and Backlog 

Sales to the U.S. government comprised approximately 19% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s net sales in fiscal 2016. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company&#8217;s net sales for this period. A substantial majority of the Company&#8217;s net sales are derived from the fulfillment of customer orders that are received prior to commencing production. 

The Company&#8217;s backlog as of September 30, 2016 &#32;increased 35.7% to $3.54 billion compared to $2.61 billion at September 30, 2015 &#32;due largely to an increase in the defense segment backlog as a result of new contracts in fiscal 2016. Access equipment segment backlog decreased 14.5% to $179.3 million at September 30, 2016 &#32;compared to $209.7 million at September 30, 2015 &#32;primarily due to the slowdown in North American replacement demand. Defense segment backlog increased 65.0% to $2.33 billion at September 30, 2016 &#32;compared to $1.41 billion at September 30, 2015 &#32;primarily due to the receipt of a large international contract for the delivery of M-ATVs, higher order levels on the FHTV and FMTV programs and increased funding for the JLTV program. Defense segment backlog at September 30, 2016 &#32;includes orders under the recently extended FMTV contract. A third party protest of the FMTV contract extension was subsequently withdrawn. Fire &#38; emergency segment backlog increased 7.9% to $852.9 million at September 30, 2016 &#32;compared to $790.7 million at September 30, 2015 &#32;due largely to increased orders for domestic fire trucks as a result of continued market recovery and share gains. Commercial segment backlog decreased 10.2% to $173.3 million at September 30, 2016 &#32;compared to $193.0 million at September 30, 2015 . Unit backlog for concrete mixers and refuse collection vehicles as of September 30, 2016 &#32;was down 18.8% and 29.7%, respectively, compared to September 30, 2015 &#32;due to continued softness in the concrete mixer market and the timing of fleet replacement demand for refuse collection vehicles. 

Reported backlog excludes purchase options and announced orders for which definitive contracts have not been executed. Backlog information and comparisons thereof as of different dates may not be accurate indicators of future sales or the ratio of the Company&#8217;s future sales to the DoD versus its sales to other customers. Approximately 18% of the Company&#8217;s September 30, 2016 &#32;backlog is not expected to be filled in fiscal 2017. 

Government Contracts 

Approximately 19% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s net sales for fiscal 2016 were made to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. Accordingly, a significant portion of the Company&#8217;s sales are subject to risks specific to doing business with the U.S. government, including uncertainty of economic conditions, changes in government policies and requirements that may reflect rapidly changing military and political developments, the availability of funds and the ability to meet specified performance thresholds. Multi-year contracts may be conditioned upon continued availability of congressional appropriations and are being impacted by the uncertainty regarding the federal budget pressures. Variances between anticipated budget and congressional appropriations may result in a delay, reduction or termination of these contracts. In addition, continued weak economic conditions have put significant pressure on the U.S. federal budget. The two-year U.S. federal budget agreement signed by the President in December 2015 removed the threat of sequestration in the U.S. federal government&#8217;s fiscal 2016 and 2017 budgets, but absent future budget agreements, the full effect of sequestration could return in the government&#8217;s fiscal 2018 budget. The magnitude of the adverse impact that federal budget pressures will have on funding for our defense programs is unknown. Budgetary concerns could result in future defense vehicle contracts being awarded more on price than the past competitive factors described above. 

Oshkosh Defense's sales into defense vehicle markets are substantially dependent upon periodic awards of new contracts and the purchase of base vehicle quantities and the exercise of options under existing contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation process. In years when the U.S. government has not completed its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a &#8220;continuing resolution,&#8221; which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that we provide and may result in new initiatives being delayed or canceled, or funds could be reprogrammed away from our programs to pay for higher priority operational needs. The U.S. government is currently operating under a continuing resolution budget that funds the federal government through December 9, 2016. In years when the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution, a federal government shutdown may result. This could in turn result in the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a negative effect on our cash flows and adversely affect our future results. In addition, payments to contractors for services performed during a federal government shutdown may be delayed, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. 

Defense contract awards that Oshkosh Defense receives may be subject to protests by competing bidders, which protests, if successful, could result in the DoD revoking part or all of any defense contract it awards to Oshkosh Defense and an inability of Oshkosh Defense to recover amounts it has expended during the protest period in anticipation of initiating work under any such contract. 

Under firm, fixed-price contracts with the U.S. government, the price paid to the Company is generally not subject to adjustment to reflect the Company&#8217;s actual costs, except costs incurred as a result of contract changes ordered by the U.S. government. Under fixed-price incentive firm contracts with the U.S. government, the price paid to the Company is subject to adjustment based on the actual costs incurred. The impact of pricing adjustments under the fixed-price incentive firm contracts are generally shared by the Company and its customer. The Company generally attempts to negotiate with the U.S. government the amount of increased compensation to which the Company is entitled for government-ordered changes that result in higher costs. If the Company is unable to negotiate a satisfactory agreement to provide such increased compensation, then the Company may file an appeal with the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals or the U.S. Claims Court. The Company has no such appeals pending. The Company seeks to mitigate risks with respect to fixed-price contracts by executing firm, fixed-price contracts with a substantial majority of its suppliers for the duration of the Company&#8217;s contracts. 

U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or part, at the governments convenience. If the U.S. government exercises its rights under this clause the contractor is entitled to payment for the allowable costs incurred and a reasonable profit on the work performed to date. The U.S. government can also terminate a contract for default. If a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payment for work that has been accepted by the U.S. government. Termination for default may expose the Company to loss on work not yet accepted by the government and have a negative impact on the Company's ability to obtain future orders and contracts. The U.S. governments right to terminate its contracts has not had a material effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. 

The Company, as a U.S. government contractor, is subject to financial audits and other reviews by the U.S. government relating to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, U.S. government contracts. Like most large government contractors, the Company is audited and reviewed by the government on a continual basis. Costs and prices under such contracts may be subject to adjustment based upon the results of such audits and reviews. Additionally, such audits and reviews can lead to civil, criminal or administrative proceedings. Such proceedings could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company or one or more of its subsidiaries can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges based on the results of such proceedings. The Company believes that the outcome of all such audits and reviews that are now pending will not have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Suppliers 

The Company is dependent on its suppliers and subcontractors to meet commitments to its customers, and many components are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. Components for the Company&#8217;s products are generally available from a number of suppliers, although the transition to a new supplier may require several months to conclude. The Company purchases chassis components, such as vehicle frames, engines, transmissions, radiators, axles, tires, drive motors, bearings and hydraulic components and vehicle body options, such as cranes, cargo bodies and trailers, from third-party suppliers. These body options may be manufactured specific to the Company&#8217;s requirements; however, most of the body options could be manufactured by other suppliers or the Company itself. Through reliance on this supply network for the purchase of certain components, the Company is able to reduce many of the pre-production and fixed costs associated with the manufacture of these components and vehicle body options. The Company purchases a large amount of fabrications and outsources certain manufacturing services, each generally from small companies located near its facilities. While providing low-cost services and product surge capability, such companies often require additional management attention during difficult economic conditions or contract start-up. The Company also purchases complete vehicle chassis from truck chassis suppliers in its commercial segment and, to a lesser extent, in its fire &#38; emergency and access equipment segments. Increasingly, the Company is sourcing components globally, which may involve additional inventory requirements and introduces additional foreign currency exposures. The Company maintains an extensive qualification, on-site inspection, assistance and performance measurement system to attempt to control risks associated with reliance on suppliers. The Company occasionally experiences problems with supplier and subcontractor performance and component, chassis and body availability and must identify alternate sources of supply and/or address related warranty claims from customers. 

While the Company purchases many costly components such as chassis, engines and transmissions, it manufactures certain proprietary components and systems. These components include front drive steer axles, transfer cases, transaxles, cabs, the TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky compressed air foam systems, the Command Zone vehicle control system, body structures and many smaller parts that add uniqueness and value to the Company&#8217;s products. The Company believes controlling the production of these components provides a significant competitive advantage and also serves to reduce the production costs of the Company&#8217;s products. The Company intends to continue to pursue vertical integration opportunities to further increase its competitive advantage. 

Intellectual Property 

Patents and licenses are important in the operation of the Company's business. One of management's objectives is developing proprietary components to provide the Company's customers with advanced technological solutions at attractive prices. The Company holds in excess of 800 active domestic and foreign patents. The Company believes patents for the TAK-4 independent suspension system, which expire between 2017 and 2029, provide the Company with a competitive advantage in the defense and fire &#38; emergency segments. In the defense segment, the TAK-4 independent suspension system has been incorporated into the U.S. Marine Corps' MTVR and LVSR programs, the U.S. Army's PLS A1 program, the MRAP - Joint Program Office M-ATV program and the JLTV program. The Company believes the TAK-4 independent suspension system provided a performance and cost advantage that contributed to the Company winning these programs. In the fire &#38; emergency segment, TAK-4 independent suspension systems are standard on all Pierce custom fire trucks, as well as Striker and Global Striker ARFF vehicles, which the Company believes brings a similar competitive advantage to these markets. 

In 2012, the Company introduced the newest TAK-4 independent suspension system configuration, TAK-4i, where the &#8220;i&#8221; stands for &#8220;intelligent.&#8221; The TAK-4i, which has been developed for rigorous military applications, provides 20 inches of wheel travel, a 25% improvement compared to the original TAK-4, and incorporates an adjustable ride height feature. The Company believes that the TAK-4i was a key factor in the Company's successful JLTV production contract award. 

The Company believes that patents for certain components of its ProPulse hybrid electric drive system, Command Zone electronics system and TerraMax autonomous vehicle systems offer potential competitive advantages to product lines across all its segments. To a lesser extent, other proprietary components provide the Company a competitive advantage in each of the Company's segments. 

As part of the Company&#8217;s long-term alliance with Caterpillar Inc., the Company acquired a non-exclusive, non-transferable worldwide license to use certain Caterpillar Inc. intellectual property through 2025 in connection with the design and manufacture of Caterpillar Inc.&#8217;s current telehandler products. Additionally, Caterpillar Inc. assigned to JLG certain patents and patent applications relating to the Caterpillar-branded telehandler products. JLG also produces a line of telehandlers for the European agricultural market under a license from SAME Deutz-Fahr and sells SAME Deutz-Fahr-branded telehandlers directly to SAME Deutz-Fahr&#8217;s dealer network. 

The Company holds trademarks for &#8220;Oshkosh,&#8221; &#8220;Oshkosh Defense,&#8221; &#8220;TAK-4,&#8221; &#8220;ProPulse,&#8221; &#8220;JLG,&#8221; &#8220;SkyTrak,&#8221; &#8220;Pierce,&#8221; &#8220;McNeilus,&#8221; &#8220;Jerr-Dan,&#8221; &#8220;CON-E-CO,&#8221; &#8220;London&#8221; and &#8220;IMT&#8221; among others. These trademarks are considered to be important to the future success of the Company&#8217;s business. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , the Company had approximately 13,800 employees. The United Auto Workers union (UAW) represented approximately 1,800 production employees at the Company&#8217;s Oshkosh, Wisconsin facilities; the Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths and Forgers Union (Boilermakers) represented approximately 215 employees at the Company&#8217;s Kewaunee, Wisconsin facility; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Union (Teamsters) represented approximately 135 employees at the Company&#8217;s Garner, Iowa facility. The Company's agreement with the UAW expires in September 2021. The Company's new five-year agreement with the Boilermakers extends through June 2022. The Company&#8217;s new five-year agreement with the Teamsters extends through May 2021. In addition, the majority of the Company&#8217;s approximately 2,200 employees located outside of the U.S. are represented by separate works councils or unions. The Company believes its relationship with employees is satisfactory. 

Seasonal Nature of Business 

In the Company&#8217;s access equipment and commercial segments, business tends to be seasonal with an increase in sales occurring in the spring and summer months that constitute the traditional construction season in the northern hemisphere. In addition, sales are generally lower in the first fiscal quarter in all segments due to the relatively high number of holidays which reduce available shipping days. 

Industry Segments 

Financial information concerning the Company&#8217;s industry segments is included in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales 

The Company manufactures products in the U.S., Belgium, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Australia, Romania, China and Mexico for sale throughout the world. Sales to customers outside of the U.S. were 24% , 21% and 23% of the Company&#8217;s consolidated sales for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Financial information concerning the Company&#8217;s foreign and domestic operations and export sales is included in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

The Company maintains a website with the address www.oshkoshcorporation.com . The Company is not including the information contained on the Company&#8217;s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge (other than an investor&#8217;s own Internet access charges) through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with, or furnishes such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

