ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

Description of Business

Original Sixteen to One Mine, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in 1911 in
California. It mines gold on properties it owns in fee simple or on which it
has claims in the Alleghany Mining District, about 65 miles northeast of the
intersection of I-80 and California State Route 49.

The primary operation is the Sixteen to One mine from which more than 1,112,465
troy ounces of gold have been retrieved since the mine commenced operation in
1896.  It is a traditional hard rock underground mine where miners create
horizontal levels at various elevations and raise into favorable areas.  The
geology of the mineral deposit is well documented.  Gold is not distributed
evenly within the quartz veins; however, concentrations of gold deposits are
found scattered within these quartz veins.  Because the gold appears
intermittently, the Company has never declared reserves according to
contemporary industry standards. Most mining is exploration.

Operations are characterized by significant amounts of preparation, tunneling,
underground property maintenance and upgrading, all of which are necessary to
permit access to and extraction of gold.  The Company from time to time focuses
substantially all of its resources on infrastructure development and
maintenance, and during these periods, little gold is mined.  At other times,
miners are primarily exploring for gold.  Accordingly, business is subjected
to two very different cycles, one dependent on whether the Company is directing
its resources towards infrastructure or underground development and the other
as a function of gold production.  The operation resembles the classical "boom
or bust" cycles regardless of outside influences.

Metal detection technology enables exploration to detect gold from zero to 48
inches from quartz faces in the wall rock.  (The size of the concentration is a
factor).  The Company works with others interested in developing new
technologies for deeper penetration.  These arrangements allow the Company to
benefit from research activities without incurring the full costs associated
with research and development.

Advancement in metal detection technology has steadily progressed over the past
twenty years.  Greater sensitivity in metal detection has historically
increased gold production throughout the mine.  Since the Company lacks the
funds to carry forth scientific research, it is impossible to predict when a
new device will be developed; however, the hardware used in advanced gold
detection has continued to improve. In September 2012, the company completed
negotiating a service agreement with a technology start-up company based in
Silicon Valley, California.  It is a developer of deep sensing technology and
believes it can develop and demonstrate its ability to detect the presence of
gold at a range beyond ten feet through solid quartz.

This technology company has expertise in developing software algorithms which
will be applied to create and maintain a three dimensional digital map of the
mine. The objectives are to evaluate likely gold content, estimate potential
gold reserves and target most likely locations to drill patterns within the
mine to affirm an economic target.

For accounting purposes gold revenues are accrued when the metal has been
recovered.  For tax purposes revenues are not recognized until the gold is
sold. Rare highgrade gold and quartz is sold at a premium to museums,
collectors and jewelry manufacturers.  This market has become a significant
financial factor since its beginning in 1993.  Demand for the Sixteen to One
gold quartz gemstone is currently greater than the amount mined.

The Company lacks sufficient funds to implement major construction projects to
increase mining efficiency.  Sinking a new shaft in the center of the property
is one project.  Other mining related projects are: joining a public stock
exchange, building and testing a gold detector specifically designed for the
Sixteen to One vein and dewatering the levels that were left to flood.

Supplies and equipment used for underground exploration are commonly available.
Labor requirements are available.  The Company believes that within the Sixteen
to One mine substantial exploration opportunities exist.

No particular seasonality exists for the marketing of gold.  Business is not
seasonal except for the adverse effect of winter storms on the ability of the
crew to access the mine. Management believes it is in substantial compliance
with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to
the environment.  The Company does not presently anticipate any material
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities, either for the
remainder of its current fiscal year or for the succeeding fiscal year.

The Company's executive office is located at 527 Miners Street, Alleghany,
California 95910.  It maintains a website: origsix.com.

Risk Factors

(a) Price of Gold

The daily spot price of gold has a modest effect on gross revenue if it's
between $1,000 and $1,300 an ounce.  A significant drop below $1,000 may have
an adverse effect on the Company's operation. Ore exceeds the bullion price due
to its value in the jewelry and specimen markets which are not significantly
affected by the spot price of gold.

(b) Lack of Proven Reserves

Because proven reserves are not utilized as a component for evaluating future
earnings or ore values, a sense of uncertainty of existence is perceived by
some.  Caution is recommended in using the doctrines of reserves as an economic
tool for valuing the Sixteen to One mine. While (i) the Company has recovered
over one million ounces of gold and (ii) management believes that substantial
additional virgin veins exists in the Sixteen to One mine, the Company has no
ability to measure using the mathematical tools generally recognized in the
mining industry; however, the company can prove that approximately seventy
percent (70%) of its vein system has not been developed.

(c) Governmental Regulation

The attached financial statements have not been audited by a Securities
Exchange Commission (SEC) accounting firm.  Therefore, the Company is not in
compliance with this SEC regulation for companies listed on an exchange.

Mining is generally subjected to regulation by state and federal authorities.
State and federal statutes regulate environmental quality, safety, exploration
procedures, reclamation, employees health and safety, use of explosives, air
quality standards, pollution of stream and fresh water sources, noxious
odors, noise, dust, and other environmental protection controls as well as the
rights of adjoining property owners.  Laws may change preventing or delaying
the commencement or continuance of given operations.

The Company is substantially in compliance with all known safety and
environmental standards and regulations.  There can be no assurance that future
changes in the laws, regulations or reckless interpretations thereof will not
have a material adverse effect.

(d) Liquidity

Gold inventory at December 31, 2015, was $724,050 primarily as specimens or
gold held as jewelry.  While history of actual cash sales supports an
inventory value exceeding the spot price, no such increases are used to compute
the inventory.  All inventory of raw material is recorded at spot price per
troy ounce.  In addition, contract manufacturing costs of jewelry are included
in the finished jewelry inventory.  Periodic shortfalls in liquidity occur
which are not likely to be bridged by institutional debt financing.  Management
addresses these issues as they arise.


(e) Price of Stock

Bids and offers are publicly recorded on the stock page of the Company's web
site.  Exposure is limited.  The price of stock may not accurately reflect its
fair market value because of the limited marketplace.  The company maintains
no program to support or promote its stock and is unlikely to conduct a program
until a public marketplace is secured.

There are conflicting bids, offers and trades between the Company's website
and the unregulated Pink Sheet Gray Market, ticker symbol OSTO.  Because of
these discrepancies the market price is unpredictable.


