 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS

Overview

&#160;

Pacific Ventures Group, Inc. (the "Company" or "Pacific Ventures") was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 3, 1986, under the name AOA Corporation. On November 12, 1991, the Company changed its name to American Eagle Group, Inc. On October 22, 2012, the Company changed its name to Pacific Ventures Group, Inc.

On August 14, 2015, Pacific Ventures Group, Inc. and its stockholders entered into a share exchange agreement with Sn&#246;bar Holdings, Inc. ("Sn&#246;bar Holdings"), pursuant to which Pacific Ventures acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Sn&#246;bar Holdings' Class A and Class B common stock in exchange for 22,500,000 restricted shares of Pacific Ventures' common stock while simultaneously issuing 2,500,000 shares of Pacific Ventures' restricted common stock to certain other persons.

The Share Exchange represents a change in control of the Company and a change in business operations. The business operations will change to that of Sn&#246;bar Holdings.

Sn&#246;bar Holdings, Inc. ("Sn&#246;bar Holdings") was formed in the State of Delaware on January 7, 2013. Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the trustor and sole beneficiary of Snobar Trust, a California trust ("Trust"), which was formed in June 1, 2013. The current trustee that holds legal title to the Trust is Clark Rutledge, who is the father of Shannon Masjedi, who controls Sn&#246;bar Holdings. The Trust owns 100% of the shares of International Production Impex Corporation, a California corporation ("IPIC"), which was formed on August 2, 2001. IPIC is in the business of selling alcohol-infused ice cream and ice-pops, and holds all of the rights to the liquor licenses to sell such products and trade names "Sn&#246;Bar". As such, the Trust holds all ownership interest of IPIC and its liquor licenses, permitting IPIC to sell its product to distributors, with all income, expense, gains and losses rolling up to the Trust, of which Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the sole beneficiary. Sn&#246;bar Holdings also owns 99.9% of the shares of MAS Global Distributors, Inc., a California corporation ("MGD"). MGD is in the business of selling and leasing freezers and providing marketing services. As a result of the foregoing, Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the primary beneficiary of all assets, liabilities and any income received from the business of the Trust and IPIC through the Trust and is the parent company of MGD.

The Trust and IPIC are considered variable interest entities ("VIEs") and Sn&#246;bar Holdings is identified as the primary beneficiary of the Trust and IPIC. Under ASC 810, Sn&#246;bar Holdings performs ongoing reassessments of whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. As the assessment of Sn&#246;bar Holdings' management is that Sn&#246;bar Holdings has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's activities (it is responsible for establishing and operating IPIC), and the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE and the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE's economic performance, it was therefore concluded by management that Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the primary beneficiary of the Trust and IPIC. As such, the Trust and IPIC were consolidated in the financial statements of Sn&#246;bar Holdings since the inception of the Trust, in the case of the Trust, and since the inception of Sn&#246;bar Holdings, in the case of IPIC. 

Our principal executive office is located at 117 West 9th Street, Suite 316, Los Angeles, California. Our main telephone number is (310) 392-5606.

&#160;

&#160;

- 4 -

Operations

&#160;

Description of Sn&#246;bar Holdings, Inc.

GENERAL

Sn&#246;bar Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Sn&#246;bar Holdings"), was incorporated in the state of Delaware on January 7, 2013. Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the trustor and sole beneficiary of Snobar Trust, a California trust ("Trust"), which was formed in June 1, 2013. The trustee that holds legal title to the Trust is Clark Rutledge, who is the father of Shannon Masjedi. The Trust owns 100% of the shares of International Production Impex Corporation, a California corporation ("IPIC"), which was formed on August 2, 2001. IPIC is the owner of liquor licenses and the trade name "Sn&#246;Bar" and is in the business of selling and distributing alcohol-infused ice creams and ice-pops through its distributors. Sn&#246;bar Holdings also owns 99.9% of the shares of MAS Global Distributors, Inc., a California corporation ("MGD"). MGD is in the business of selling and leasing freezers and providing marketing services. As a matter of law, IPIC may not be engaged in any business similar to MGD. As a result of the foregoing, Sn&#246;bar Holdings is the beneficiary of all assets, liabilities and any income received from the business of IPIC through the Trust and is the parent company of MGD.

IPIC is a food and beverage, alcohol distribution company, that is initially marketing two products: Sn&#246;Bar alcohol infused ice pops, and Sn&#246;Bar alcohol infused ice cream and sorbet.

Sn&#246;Bar ice pops are original frozen alcohol beverage bars, similar to popsicles on a stick, but made with premium liquor such as premium tequila and vodka and are currently manufactured in three flavors, Margarita, Cosmopolitan and Mojito. The alcohol freezing technology used to produce these beverage bars can be applied to almost any alcohol type and mixture, presenting significant market potential and an almost unlimited variety of flavors and employment of premium brands. Each ice pop is the equivalent of a full cocktail. 

Sn&#246;Bar ice cream is an additional innovative product that the company is marketing using proprietary formulas and technology. These products are premium ice cream and sorbets that are distilled spirit cocktails containing up to 20% quality liqueurs and liquors. Currently, there are four flavors available: Brandy Alexander; Brandy Alexander with chocolate chips; Grasshopper; and Pink Squirrel. There are also numerous different liquor ice cream flavors in development in classic ice cream drink styles such as Coffee Liqueur Ice Cream, Pi&#241;a Colada Sorbet, Sherry Ice Cream, and Strawberry Margarita Sorbet. The product contains ultra premium dairy and the highest quality of ingredients.

What makes the Sn&#246;Bar products unique is the proprietary formulation and method of manufacturing. Sn&#246;Bar ice pops and Sn&#246;Bar ice cream use a system to stabilize the alcohol molecule, whereby the alcohol content, quality and flavor is not degraded during the production process. The technology is also applicable to other food and beverage products such as yogurt, water ice creations and alcohol based goods. IPIC has begun the process of obtaining trade secret and other intellectual property protections as to these unique technologies. The Sn&#246;Bar brand is fully trademarked within the USA and is currently seeking worldwide trademark rights.

Sn&#246;Bar brand products have been through extensive consumer testing across all age groups and sexes over 21 years of age. According to the results of the consumer testing, there is a large untapped market potential for frozen alcohol desserts. Market research shows that there are very few alcohol infused ice-creams and ice pops available in the U.S. markets and the few that are out there are of lower quality ingredients and are not mass produced. IPIC holds several Federal and State granted liquor licenses. These licenses allow the Sn&#246;Bar product line to be introduced and distributed in 95% of the United States. IPIC desires to be the first to mass market the Sn&#246;Bar alcohol-infused products in this untapped and sizeable market segment and capitalize on these two exclusive products. IPIC only uses the finest of ingredients and dairy to produce Sn&#246;Bar products and strives to achieve the highest quality of texture and taste for all of the Sn&#246;Bar products. IPIC believes that the Sn&#246;Bar brand has the potential to scale on a national and international level with worldwide distribution capabilities.

&#160;

&#160;

- 5 -

MARKET

The alcohol and distilled spirits market, and ice cream markets have consistently exhibited year-over-year growth, and are projected to continue this positive trend. Not only are these products a part of an expanding market segment, but they have been received by a wide range of consumers who find them entertaining and enjoyable to consume. The alcohol beverage and dessert industries are extremely innovative and continuously add new and original products. IPIC has determined that capturing even a small portion of these markets would surpass the initial production capabilities of the Sn&#246;Bar products and provide a platform for exponential growth nationally and internationally.

In 2012, the Sn&#246;Bar brand was introduced in the USA in the state of Arizona. The brand was extremely well received and was immediately placed in the top chain stores and restaurants, resorts including Total Wine and the Bevmo Chains. Due to its multiple applications and uses, the Sn&#246;Bar alcohol infusing technology is used to create exotic and innovative cocktails and the most unique and delicious desserts. Sn&#246;Bar is one of the only few spirit brands that can offer incremental revenues and not compete with other spirits currently on the market.

In 2013, the Sn&#246;Bar brand was launched in Nevada. Immediately, the Sn&#246;Bar products were in demand in all the major casinos and resorts. The Sn&#246;Bar brand joined forces with reputable hotels and resorts, including, but not limited to, the Bellagio, Golden Nugget, Rio, Wynn, Encore, TAO, Caesars Palace, Hilton, The M and MGM. In Nevada, IPIC's focus is to place the Sn&#246;Bar brand within all the venues of the hotels including catering and banquets, room service, retail outlets and nightclubs.

Immediately following Nevada, the Sn&#246;Bar brand was launched in the state of Florida, in cities including Miami, Tampa, Orlando, Jacksonville and the panhandle. This expansion resulted in Sn&#246;Bar products being offered by reputable hotels and resorts, including, but not limited to, Ritz Carlton Hotel, Fountainbleau, Hilton, Waldorf Astoria and The Breakers Resort.

In 2014, the Sn&#246;Bar brand was launched in California. Over 100 accounts with retailers for Sn&#246;Bar products were established in the 90 day period following the launch in California. The focus in California has been ensuring that the accounts are reordering product and being serviced and supported properly. Currently, Sn&#246;Bar products are being offered by Gelson's Markets and there has also been interest from other chains such as Ralph's (Kroger) and Costco.

Walmart, the largest retailer in the world, approved the Sn&#246;Bar brand to be test marketed in a few stores in the Florida market. The first store sold out of more than 10 cases of Sn&#246;Bar products within the first two weeks prompting an 85 case reorder. After a three month trial period, Walmart approved the expansion of Sn&#246;Bar products in to more stores in the Florida market.

In 2015, the Sn&#246;Bar brand was launched in North Carolina and South Carolina teaming up with a distributor who is well known in the market place. The brand has been very well received within the market.

In the first two months of 2015, IPIC restructured its approach to distribution of Sn&#246;Bar products and scaled back the operating expenditures by reducing its expenses. Most notably, Sn&#246;Bar products are now distributed by a local Nestle Distributor in the California markets resulting in almost a 50% decrease in distribution expenses to IPIC.

IPIC has recently entered into contracts with three international distributors pursuant to which IPIC has licensed to the international distributors a right to distribute Sn&#246;Bar products to certain international destinations. One of the contracts provides for a non-exclusive right to distribute for a minimum term of three years with an aggregate of $725,000 worth of Sn&#246;Bar products for distribution in Grand Cayman Island, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Cuba, if and when trade is permissible with Cuba. Another contract provides for an exclusive right to distribute for a minimum term of two years with an aggregate of $700,000 worth of Sn&#246;Bar products for distribution in Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic and Panama. The last contract provides for an exclusive right to distribute for a minimum term of two years with an aggregate of $700,000 worth of Sn&#246;Bar products for the first year and $300,000 worth of Sn&#246;Bar products for each year thereafter for distribution in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Thailand. IPIC has already received the initial orders from these international distributors.

IPIC is also in negotiations with other international distributors for exportation of Sn&#246;Bar products to territories, including Australia, New Zealand and Europe.

&#160;

&#160;

- 6 -

IPIC has recently entered into a contract with a distributor in the United States pursuant to which IPIC has licensed to the domestic distributor an exclusive right to distribute Sn&#246;Bar products. The contract provides for a minimum of two years with an aggregate of $500,000 worth of Sn&#246;Bar products for distribution in North Carolina and South Carolina.

IPIC is also in negotiations with other domestic distributors for distribution of Sn&#246;Bar products to Texas, where a large retail chain named Spec's has approved of offering Sn&#246;Bar products for sale, as well as Alabama.

Ice Cream and Ice Pops

While the majority of ice cream sales have long been regular-fat products, ice cream manufacturers continue to diversify their lines of frozen desserts in order to fit into various lifestyles. However, most consumers are looking for an indulgence when eating ice creams, which makes these products well situated with its ideal formula of two enjoyable products, ice cream and alcohol in an affordable combination.

Alcohol

The second ingredient in Sn&#246;Bar ice cream and Sn&#246;Bar ice pops is alcohol. The U.S. beverage alcohol market is over $400 billion according to The Distilled Spirits Council of the United States ("DISCUS"). The Sn&#246;Bar alcohol-infused ice cream and ice pop products take advantage of the success of the thriving frozen desserts industry and the successful alcohol beverage industry, making Sn&#246;Bar ice cream and ice pop products a hybrid of uniqueness conducive to the consumer markets.

OPPORTUNITY

IPIC has created a proprietary formula and the methodology and manufacturing technique to mass produce alcohol-infused ice cream leveraging production facilities, warehousing, distribution, and merchandising methods currently used for ice cream. Specifically, the proprietary formulation and manufacturing method stabilize the alcohol molecules from interacting with ice crystals and milk proteins making it possible to mass-produce a solid alcohol-infused ice cream that has a flavoring system of up to 20% distilled spirits. To date, Sn&#246;Bar ice cream is one of the only products of its kind in the U.S.

The original invention of these frozen alcohol desserts follows the same recipes used by America's finest bars and restaurants. The Sn&#246;Bar products are distilled spirit cocktails that contain up to 20% quality liqueurs and liquors. What makes liquor ice cream and sorbet different is that the product is solid just like regular ice cream, not semi-soft or in a milk shake consistency like one would find at bars and restaurants: These products are ready-to-eat solid or can be blended into a cocktail. While Sn&#246;Bar products look like ice cream and frozen popsicles, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ("ATF") and Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") have classified Sn&#246;Bar ice cream and Sn&#246;Bar pops as distilled spirits due to the alcohol content.

This formulation positions these two products in a unique market opportunity taking advantage of the $26 billion a year frozen dessert market and the over $400 billion a year alcohol beverage market. A 5 ounce serving represents a significant consumer value when compared to the cost of a traditional drink. Additionally, the concept of a frozen alcohol dessert product is seen by female consumers in our studies as being "innovative" and "fun".

Female consumers have generally been high consumers of the dessert market; consequently, males have been the greater consumer of alcohol. The primary target market for these two products is adult women 21 to 65. An alcoholic-infused ice cream drink would appear to combine the best of both worlds for the female consumer. Of course, to a large degree the market for frozen alcohol desserts includes all adults, excluding those who have dietary, medical, or social/religious concerns. This presents an opportunity for a new innovative product that specifically addresses both females and males.

IPIC will market and promote the Sn&#246;Bar brand utilizing a proprietary manufacturing and freezing method where the alcohol content and flavor is not degraded during the production process. Sn&#246;Bar ice pops are frozen beverage alcohol bars, similar to a popsicle on a stick, and are currently manufactured in three flavors; Margarita, Cosmopolitan, and Mojito. Both recipes include premium liquors of blue agave tequila and vodka, however, the alcohol freezing technology can be applied to almost any alcohol type and mixture, presenting significant market potential and an almost unlimited variety of flavors and employment of premium brands.

&#160;

&#160;

- 7 -

While Sn&#246;Bar popsicles are included in the frozen dessert and alcohol beverage category, initially sales are expected to be driven mostly by on-premise accounts. The spirits category represents over 650,000 licensed retail accounts absorbing sales of over 175 million x 9 liter equivalent cases annually. IPIC can viably reach 30% of this market, approximately 195,000 outlets, accounting for 52.5 million equivalent cases. While a core-target audience of females 21 to 65 years old have been highly accepting and positive regarding the product, our market studies show that the actual acceptance band of the product is much wider, and that if cost is not a purchase condition, most people of drinking age will try one or more.

With a confidential/proprietary formula and exclusive manufacturing process, coupled with a focused launch and national distribution network, IPIC strives to be the first to market in this unique segment and capitalize on a revolutionary product.

STRATEGY

The International Dairy Food Association ("IDFA") reported that approximately 86% of packaged ice cream retail sales occur in supermarkets. Convenience store sales represented 11.4%, drug stores were at nearly 2%, while 0.6% occurred at other locations.

The current marketing strategy is to sell products to high-end restaurants, resorts, cruise lines and hotels. Additionally, various celebrity branding and product endorsements are currently being explored. Initially, IPIC will focus on major accounts in four core markets consisting of Southern California, Phoenix, Las Vegas and Miami. The larger vision is to sell products in grocery stores such as Kroger, Wal-Mart and others, and thereafter to begin a national marketing program to all U.S. retailers. It is essentially a top down marketing plan where products are placed with the largest retailer then trickle down to the smallest seller in each market area.

The fact that Sn&#246;Bar products are unique and exclusive, allows Sn&#246;Bar to bring new consumers and revenue to our vendors, hence creating incremental growth in their overall sales. A national direct mail campaign to liquor retailers and leading food service operators will support these efforts. By Sn&#246;Bar creating a new vehicle for distilled spirits, many consumers will be tasting liqueurs and liquors for the first time, and in the very favorable mixed medium of premium ice cream.

The initial target market for Sn&#246;Bar popsicles consists of bars, night clubs, restaurants, resorts, hotels, event banquet and catering firms, and cruise lines. Negotiations are currently underway with several more Las Vegas resorts and a major cruise line to initially launch the Sn&#246;Bar products. Heavy attention will also be given to consumer and trade shows in the beverage industry to provide exposure and sampling as well as to enlist new accounts. IPIC intends to provide Sn&#246;Bar products to more major groceries stores at a later date.

At the outset, the target consumer is 21 to 34 year olds, predominately females that frequent restaurants, bars, and events on a regular basis. While the consumer demographic is predominantly female, the slight majority of the purchasers are male for female consumption. Our marketing studies and strategy have identified these trends and structured promotional efforts accordingly. IPIC will coordinate and oversee all out-sourced brand awareness and public relations activities. Many of the strategies used will be replications of the past successes experienced by management and other similar demographically-oriented products.

MAS Global Distributors, Inc., a California corporation ("MGD"), formed in December 14, 2010, a majority owned subsidiary of Sn&#246;bar Holdings, is the sole marketer for Sn&#246;Bar ice cream and Sn&#246;Bar ice pops. MGD handles all the marketing and promotional aspect for the Sn&#246;Bar product line.

Seasonality

While it is anticipated that Sn&#246;Bar ice cream will be consumed year round with special holiday flavors and promotions planned, it is anticipated that Sn&#246;Bar consumption will be strong in warm climates, specialty venues, cruise lines, resorts, and of course seasonal occasions.

&#160;

&#160;

- 8 -

Raw Materials and Other Supplies

The principal raw materials for the production, storage and aging of distilled products are primarily corn and other grains for whiskies and other spirits, agave for tequila, molasses for rum, grapes for cognac, sticks for the popsicles and milk and other dairy products for the ice cream. IPIC does not currently have any long-term supply agreements with third-party suppliers for the purchase of any of raw materials used in our products. From time to time, these raw materials are affected by weather and other forces that may impact production and quality, and, ultimately, their price.

Manufacturing

Due to the confidentiality of the Sn&#246;Bar ice cream and Sn&#246;Bar formulas and manufacturing processes, IPIC has established a manufacturing agreement with a large frozen dessert manufacturer and packer in Southern California that is large enough to meet initial and all anticipated future demand for the Sn&#246;Bar brands. The co-packing facility can scale to handle worldwide demand of the Sn&#246;Bar products. The co-packing facility currently manufactures for such retailers as Trader Joes and Whole Foods.

Inventory

IPIC maintains inventory of Sn&#246;Bar products with the third-party manufacturer/co-packer of its ice-pops and ice creams, as well as with third-party distributors of its products . IPIC's products that are in inventory may be subject to spoliation, theft, or other hazards that could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations or business of IPIC. While IPIC tries to take precautions to prevent such occurrences, the ice pops, in particular, require refrigeration to a certain temperature that if not maintained can cause the degradation in the products consistency. Ultimate end consumers may not maintain their freezers at the required temperatures which may cause them to believe that there ice-pops have partially melted and therefore they may return the ice-pops, requiring IPIC to reimburse its distributors and take such product back in to inventory for possible disposal. No assurance can be given that individual consumers will be educated in the proper freezing requirements of the Sn&#246;Bar products.

Distribution

In order to scale distribution, Sn&#246;Bar will partner with more food, beverage and alcohol distributors. The Sn&#246;Bar products are primarily sold through direct sales forces to distributors. The product delivery will occur through frozen distribution channels. Transportation of the product from the manufacturing facility to customers will be handled by third parties contracted by IPIC. IPIC is utilizing frozen warehouse facilities in Los Angeles and Phoenix, and accounts in Las Vegas and Miami will be shipped directly to the distributor.

In addition, IPIC may sell the Sn&#246;Bar products through joint ventures with and global or regional duty free customers. IPIC may also sell the Sn&#246;Bar products through governmental liquor authorities in jurisdictions where aspects of the purchase and distribution of products that contain alcohol are under government control. Examples of such authorities are the eighteen "control" states (and one county) in the United States and the Liquor Control Boards in Canada.

TRADEMARKS

IPIC sells the Sn&#246;Bar products under a number of trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to its continued success. The Sn&#246;Bar brand is fully trademarked within the USA and is currently seeking worldwide trademark rights. IPIC's business could be adversely affected by the loss of any major brand or by material infringement of its intellectual property rights. The Sn&#246;Bar products are also subject to intellectual property risks because existing trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which the Sn&#246;Bar products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect the Sn&#246;Bar products from infringement by others.

&#160;

&#160;

- 9 -

COMPETITION

The global distilled spirits industry is very competitive and the dessert industry is very competitive. The Sn&#246;Bar products compete on the basis of product quality, brand image, price, service and innovation in response to consumer preferences. While the industry is highly fragmented, major competitors on the alcohol-side of the business include Brown-Forman Corporation, Diageo PLC, Beam, Inc, Pernod Ricard S.A., Bacardi Limited, Davide Campari Milano-S.P .A., Remy Cointreau S.A., and Constellation Brands, Inc. and major competitors on the dessert-side of the business include such premium brands as Haagen Dazs and Dreyer's, which are owned by Nestle's and Ben and Jerry's which is owned by Unilever.

REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

The production, storage, transportation, distribution and sale of the Sn&#246;Bar products are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities. Various countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of products containing alcohol in whole or in part.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives regulates the U.S. spirits industry with respect to production, blending, bottling, sales, advertising, and transportation of industry products. Also, each state in the United States regulates the advertising, promotion, transportation, sale, and distribution of such products. Many of the key markets for IPIC's business, distilled spirits are subject to federal excise taxes and/or customs duties, as well as state/provincial, local and other taxes. Sales of products containing alcohol could be adversely impacted by increases to excise tax rates, which are considered from time to time by U.S. states and municipalities and in other key markets for IPIC's business. The effect of any future excise tax increases in any jurisdiction cannot be determined, but it is possible that any future excise tax increases could have an adverse effect on IPIC's business, financial condition and results of operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

IPIC is subject to both U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. In the U.S., the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and Superfund (the environmental program established in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act to address abandoned hazardous waste sites), which imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially responsible party.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2015, Sn&#246;bar Holdings does not have any employees. IPIC, a consolidated variable interest entity of Sn&#246;bar Holdings, which conducts the operations of producing, selling and distributing alcohol-infused ice creams and ice-pops , has five (5) employees as of December 31, 2015.

&#160;

- 10 -

&#160;

