 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Piedmont Office Realty Trust, Inc. (&#8220;Piedmont&#8221;) (NYSE: PDM) is a Maryland corporation that operates in a manner so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) for federal income tax purposes and engages in the acquisition, development, management, and ownership of commercial real estate properties throughout the United States, including properties that are under construction, are newly constructed, or have operating histories. Piedmont was incorporated in 1997 and commenced operations in 1998. Piedmont conducts business primarily through Piedmont Operating Partnership, L.P. (&#8220;Piedmont OP&#8221;), a Delaware limited partnership, as well as performing the management of its buildings through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Piedmont Government Services, LLC and Piedmont Office Management, LLC. Piedmont owns 99.9% of, and is the sole general partner of, Piedmont OP and as such, possesses full legal control and authority over the operations of Piedmont OP. The remaining 0.1% ownership interest of Piedmont OP is held indirectly by Piedmont through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Piedmont Office Holdings, Inc. ("POH"), the sole limited partner of Piedmont OP. Piedmont OP owns properties directly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries and through both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. References to Piedmont herein shall include Piedmont and all of its subsidiaries, including Piedmont OP and its subsidiaries and joint ventures. 

Operating Objectives and Strategy 

Based on our December 31, 2015 &#32;equity market capitalization of $2.7 billion , Piedmont is among the top ten largest office REITs in the United States based on comparison to the constituents of the Bloomberg U.S. Office REIT Index. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned and operated 69 &#32;office properties, one &#32;redevelopment asset, two &#32;development assets and one &#32;office building through an unconsolidated joint venture. Slightly under 80% &#32;of our Annualized Lease Revenue (see definition below) is generated from select office sub-markets in the following cities: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Minneapolis, New York, and Washington, D.C. 

Our portfolio of primarily Class A commercial office buildings was 91.5% &#32;and 87.7% &#32;leased as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. As we typically lease to larger, credit-worthy corporate users, our average lease size is approximately 23,000 &#32;square feet and as of December 31, 2015, we had an average lease term remaining of slightly under seven &#32;years. Our tenant base is primarily comprised of investment grade or nationally recognized corporations or governmental agencies, with 70% &#32;of our Annualized Lease Revenue derived from such tenants. No tenant other than the U.S. government accounts for more than 5% &#32;of our Annualized Lease Revenue. 

Headquartered in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, with regional and/or local management offices in each of our major markets, Piedmont values operational excellence and ranks first among REITs based on the number of buildings owned and managed with Building Owners and Managers Association ("BOMA") 360 designations. BOMA 360 is a program that evaluates six major areas of building operations and management and benchmarks a building's performance against industry standards. The achievement of such a designation recognizes excellence in building operations and management. We also have focused on environmental sustainability initiatives at our properties, and approximately 62% &#32;of our office portfolio (based on Annualized Lease Revenue) maintains Energy Star labels (recognizing the top 25% of commercial buildings in energy consumption efficiency) as of December 31, 2015 . In addition to operational excellence, we focus on fostering long-term relationships with our high-credit quality, diverse tenant base as evidenced by our 74% &#32;tenant retention rate over the past ten years. 

Our primary objectives are to maximize the risk-adjusted return to our stockholders by increasing cash flow from operations, achieving sustainable growth in Funds from Operations, growing net asset value, and realizing long-term capital appreciation. We manage risk by owning almost exclusively Class A, geographically diverse office properties which are among the most desirable in their respective, select office submarkets. In addition to the creditworthiness of our tenants, we strive to ensure our tenants represent a broad spectrum of industry types with lease maturities that are laddered over many years. Operationally, we maintain a low leverage structure, utilizing primarily unsecured financing facilities, along with laddered maturities. We utilize a national buying platform of property management support services to ensure optimal pricing for landlord and tenant services, as well as for building best practices and sustainability standards. The strategies we intend to execute to achieve these objectives include: 

Capitalizing on Acquisition/Investment Opportunities 

Our overall acquisition/investment strategy focuses on properties in select submarkets within certain major U.S. office markets that are generally characterized by their diverse industry base, attractive supply and demand ratios, potential rent growth, and appeal to investors. We target the acquisition of high quality, Class A properties that are attractively priced below replacement 

Index to Financial Statements 

value and that complement our existing portfolio from a risk management and diversification perspective with a concentration upon select submarkets where efficiencies can be gained and our market expertize can be maximized. 

Proactive Asset Management, Leasing Capabilities and Property Management 

Proactive asset and property management encompasses a number of operating initiatives designed to maximize occupancy and rental rates, including the following: devoting significant resources to building and cultivating our relationships with commercial real estate executives; maintaining local management offices in markets in which we have a significant presence; demonstrating our commitment to our tenants by maintaining the high quality of our properties; driving a significant volume of leasing transactions in a manner that provides optimal returns by using creative approaches, including early extension, lease wrap-arounds and restructurings. We manage portfolio risk by structuring lease expirations to avoid, among other things, having multiple leases expire in the same market in a relatively short period of time; applying our leasing and operational expertise in meeting the specialized requirements of federal, state and local government agencies to attract and retain these types of tenants; evaluating potential tenants based on third-party and internal assessments of creditworthiness; and using our purchasing power and market knowledge to reduce our operating costs and those of our tenants. 

Recycling Capital Efficiently 

We use our proven, disciplined capital recycling capabilities to maximize total return to our stockholders by selectively disposing of non-core assets and assets where returns appear to have been maximized, and redeploying the proceeds into new investment opportunities with higher overall return prospects. 

Financing Strategy 

We employ a conservative leverage strategy by maintaining a debt-to-gross assets ratio of between 30%-40%. To effectively manage our long-term leverage strategy, we continue to analyze various sources of debt capital to prudently ladder debt maturities and to determine which sources will be the most beneficial to our investment strategy at any particular point in time. 

Use of Joint Ventures to Improve Returns and Mitigate Risk 

We may enter into a few, select strategic joint ventures with third parties to acquire, develop, improve or dispose of properties, thereby reducing the amount of capital required by us to make investments, diversifying our sources of capital and allowing us to reduce the concentration of certain properties and/or markets without disrupting our operating performance or local operating capabilities. 

Redevelopment and Repositioning of Properties 

As circumstances warrant, we may redevelop or reposition properties within our portfolio including the creation of additional amenities for our tenants to increase both occupancy and rental rates and thereby improve returns on our invested capital. 

Information Regarding Disclosures Presented 

Annualized Lease Revenue ("ALR") is calculated by multiplying (i) rental payments (defined as base rent plus operating expense reimbursements, if payable by the tenant on a monthly basis under the terms of a lease that has been executed, but excluding (a) rental abatements and (b) rental payments related to executed but not commenced leases for space that was covered by an existing lease), by (ii) 12. In instances in which contractual rents or operating expense reimbursements are collected on an annual, semi-annual, or quarterly basis, such amounts are multiplied by a factor of 1, 2, or 4, respectively, to calculate the annualized figure. For leases that have been executed but not commenced relating to un-leased space, ALR is calculated by multiplying (i) the monthly base rental payment (excluding abatements) plus any operating expense reimbursements for the initial month of the lease term, by (ii) 12. Unless stated otherwise, this measure excludes our one &#32;redevelopment asset, two &#32;development assets, and our one &#32;property held in an unconsolidated joint venture. 

Index to Financial Statements 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 143 &#32;full-time employees, with 52 &#32;of our employees working in our corporate office located in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia. Our remaining employees work in regional and/or local management offices located in Atlanta, Georgia; Boston, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Washington, D.C.; Orlando, Florida; Dallas, Texas; Houston, Texas; Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; metropolitan New York, New York and Los Angeles, California. These employees are involved in acquiring and developing properties, as well as performing asset and property management services for our real estate properties and tenants. 

Competition 

We compete for tenants for our high-quality assets in major U.S. markets by fostering strong tenant relationships and by providing quality customer service including; leasing, asset management, property management, and construction management services. As the competition for high-credit-quality tenants is intense, we may be required to provide rent abatements, incur charges for tenant improvements and other concessions, or we may not be able to lease vacant space timely, all of which may impact our results of operations. We compete with other buyers who are interested in properties we elect to acquire, which may affect the amount that we are required to pay for such properties or may ultimately result in our decision not to acquire such properties. We also compete with sellers of similar properties when we sell properties, which may determine the amount of proceeds we receive from the disposal, or which may result in our inability to dispose of such properties due to the lack of an acceptable return. 

Financial Information About Industry Segments 

Our current business consists primarily of owning, managing, operating, leasing, acquiring, developing, investing in, and disposing of office real estate assets. We internally evaluate all of our real estate assets as one operating segment, and, accordingly, we do not report segment information. 

Concentration of Credit Risk 

We are dependent upon the ability of our current tenants to pay their contractual rent amounts as the rents become due. The inability of a tenant to pay future rental amounts would have a negative impact on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2015 , no individual tenant represents 10% or more of our future revenues under non-cancelable leases. Additionally, no individual tenant represented 10% or more of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Other Matters 

Piedmont has contracts with various governmental agencies, exclusively in the form of operating leases in buildings we own. See Item 1A . &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for further discussion of the risks associated with these contracts. 

Additionally, as the owner of real estate assets, we are subject to environmental risks. See Item 1A . &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for further discussion of the risks associated with environmental concerns. 

Web Site Address 

Access to copies of each of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including any amendments to such filings, may be obtained free of charge from the following Web site, http://www.piedmontreit.com, or directly from the SEC&#8217;s Web site at http://www.sec.gov. These filings are available promptly after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. 

&#160; 

