 ITEM 1.

Business

Overview

We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company that discovers, develops and seeks to commercialize novel, hospital-based therapies capable of transforming treatment paradigms in the management of acute, life-threatening conditions. Our initial product candidates target rare, acute, life-threatening neurological conditions for which we believe the approved existing therapies, if any, are inadequate.

We believe EG-1962, our lead product candidate, can fundamentally improve patient outcomes and transform the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, or aSAH, which is bleeding around the brain due to a ruptured brain aneurysm. A single dose of EG-1962 is designed to deliver high concentrations of nimodipine, the current standard of care, directly to the brain with sustained drug exposure over 21 days. EG-1962 utilizes our proprietary, programmable, biodegradable polymer-based development platform, referred to as our Precisa &#174; development platform, a novel delivery mechanism that enables targeted and sustained drug exposure while potentially avoiding the dose-limiting side effects associated with currently available formulations of nimodipine. On May 28, 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, granted us orphan drug designation for EG-1962 for the treatment of patients with subrachnoid hemorrhage and in October, 2015 the European Commission granted orphan drug designation to EG-1962 for treatment of aSAH.

The 90-day outcome data available for analysis from our Phase 1/2 clinical trial of EG-1962 in North America, which we refer to as our NEWTON trial, shows that the NEWTON trial met its primary and secondary endpoints of safety, tolerability, defining the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetics. The results of the principal exploratory efficacy endpoint from the 90-day follow-up available for patients in the NEWTON trial demonstrated that 60% (27 of 45) of patients treated with EG-1962 experienced a favorable clinical outcome (a score of 6-8 on the extended Glasgow Outcome Scale, or GOSE) versus only 28% (5 of 18) of patients treated with the standard of care oral nimodipine. Of the 45 patients treated with EG-1962, 90 days following treatment 27% (12 of 45) of patients achieved the highest clinical outcome score (GOSE=8, Upper Good Recovery) versus only 6% (1 of 18) patients treated with the standard of care oral nimodipine.

Based on End-of-Phase 2 feedback received from the FDA in July 2015, and from the EU Scientific Advice Working Party in November 2015, we have determined the overall design and key elements of our planned pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for EG-1962 in the treatment of aSAH. We expect to initiate this trial in mid-2016. The final results of the pivotal Phase 3 study, if positive, are expected to form the basis for a marketing application to the FDA and other global health regulatory authorities for the approval of EG-1962 in aSAH. In the United States, we plan to use the FDA Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway.

In the United States, approximately 35,000 patients with an average age of 52 are hospitalized in the intensive care unit, or ICU, each year for aSAH, and approximately 75% of these patients suffer permanent brain damage or die within 30 days. This results in overall inpatient charges of more than $5.0 billion per year in the United States. After the ruptured aneurysm is repaired, these patients remain at risk for multiple complications that are managed over the course of the patient&#8217;s treatment to optimize clinical outcomes. The most common and severe complications, which are thought to be at least in part due to the influx of calcium, include cerebral vasospasm, or narrowing of the brain arteries, and delayed cerebral ischemia, or DCI, a catastrophic delayed complication that occurs secondary to processes including cerebral vasospasm. DCI occurs in up to 30% of patients who survive the initial hemorrhage. DCI often leads to the death of brain tissue due to insufficient blood flow to certain areas of the brain and results in a significant economic burden to the hospital due to approximately $50,000 in additional direct in-hospital per patient costs. Further, the lifetime cost of illness associated with chronically disabled patients presents a significant economic burden to the entire healthcare system.

Current treatment guidelines recommend that all aSAH patients receive the L-type calcium channel blocker nimodipine over a 21-day period orally every four hours. As part of their routine course of treatment, we believe nearly half of aSAH patients have an external ventricular drain, or EVD, inserted into the brain to monitor and relieve intracranial pressure by draining out cerebral spinal fluid. The EVD can also serve as a pathway to administer drugs. Nimodipine has been the standard of care for over 25 years and has a well-understood safety profile at its approved dose and route of administration. Nimodipine has been shown to improve outcomes in aSAH patients, and its mechanism of action is believed to modify several calcium channel mediated pathways contributing to unfavorable outcomes. However, the ability to administer nimodipine at optimal therapeutic levels may be limited by side effects, primarily its potential to cause hypotension, or low blood pressure, which can exacerbate the complications of aSAH. EG-1962 delivers high and sustained concentrations of nimodipine directly to the site of injury in the brain in a single administration through an existing EVD, while potentially avoiding these dose-limiting side effects. Since current treatment guidelines recommend that all patients receive nimodipine prophylactically after aSAH, we believe that EG-1962, if approved, can become the new standard of care for all patients who receive an EVD after aSAH.

The NEWTON trial was a multicenter, randomized, controlled, open label Phase 1/2 clinical trial of EG-1962. The NEWTON trial was designed to assess the safety, tolerability, MTD and pharmacokinetics trial of EG-1962 compared to the standard of care oral nimodipine in up to 96 patients with aSAH. Six different dose cohorts (72 patients) have been evaluated in North America at escalating doses of 100 mg, 200 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg, 800 mg and 1200 mg. Twelve patients in each cohort were randomized in a ratio of 3 to 1 to receive either single dose EG-1962 or standard of care oral nimodipine for 21 days. After 90 days we assessed multiple exploratory endpoints, the principal exploratory endpoint of which was patient clinical outcomes; other exploratory endpoints included occurrence of DCI, use of rescue therapies and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and hospital length of stay (LOS), all of which we believe are indicative of the potential efficacy of EG-1962. Seventeen medical centers in North America participated in the NEWTON trial.

&#160;

Page | 5 

The results for the NEWTON trial showed that the primary and secondary study endpoints were met and all of the exploratory endpoints favored the EG-1962 groups when compared to the standard of care oral nimodipine. Safety and tolerability data were reported for all six cohorts, while efficacy results were reported only for five cohorts as the sixth cohort (1200 mg) was not a tolerable dose. There were no safety concerns identified after administration of EG-1962 that precluded dose escalation. Further, safety data for the trial showed that 0% of patients (0 of 54) experienced EG-1962 related hypotension in the treated group, while 17% of patients (3 of 18) experienced standard of care oral nimodipine related hypotension. The MTD was determined to be 800 mg, with the 600 mg dose considered to be the optimal dose to evaluate in the Phase 3 pivotal study.

Since at least 50% of aSAH patients may not require an EVD, market expansion opportunities exist. We intend to explore alternative routes of administration of EG-1962, including intracisternal administration to improve outcomes in patients with aSAH who do not receive an EVD, but remain at risk for delayed neurological complications and unfavorable outcome. Intracisternal administration involves placing a single administration of EG-1962 into the basal cisterns of the brain during surgical repair of the aneurysm. Additionally, physicians have expressed interest in the use of an EVD in patients who do not routinely receive one as standard of care solely to administer EG-1962 in patients at high risk of delayed neurological complications.

If successful, we believe intraventricular, and intracisternal administration can establish EG-1962 as a prophylactic treatment to improve outcomes in the majority of patients with aSAH.

In addition to EG-1962, we are using our Precisa development platform to develop additional product candidates targeting other acute, serious conditions where limited or no current approved therapies exist. We are developing our second product candidate, EG-1964, as a prophylactic treatment in the management of chronic subdural hematoma, or cSDH, to prevent recurrent bleeding on the surface of the brain. A cSDH is a liquefied hematoma that has accumulated on the surface of the brain in an area referred to as the subdural space and is often caused by minor head trauma. Following neurosurgical intervention to drain the hematoma, bleeding in the subdural space typically recurs in up to 30% of patients at which point another costly and risky surgical intervention is required. EG-1964 contains aprotinin, a pancreatic trypsin inhibitor approved to reduce bleeding after cardiac surgery. Aprotinin works by slowing the breakdown of blood clots. We are in the process of formulating EG-1964 to deliver a high concentration of aprotinin directly to the subdural space by way of a single administration at the time of initial neurosurgical intervention with sustained drug exposure over 21 to 28 days. If approved, we expect that EG-1964 can become the standard of care as a prophylactic treatment in the management of cSDH to prevent recurrent bleeding. We intend to submit an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, to the FDA for EG-1964 in 2017.

We have entered into a multi-year research and discovery collaboration with St. Michael&#8217;s Hospital which is affiliated with the University of Toronto. The collaboration focuses on discovering new therapeutic approaches to treat various acute neurological conditions, such as intracerebral hemorrhages, brain microbleeds and cavernous malformations resulting from neurovascular instability.

Our current product development strategy involves identifying hospital-based products for other acute, life-threatening conditions where limited or no current therapies exist. We then apply our scientific, clinical, and technical expertise to design targeted, small or large molecule therapeutics. Our Precisa development platform allows us to create polymer-based therapeutics, designed to be capable of delivering medicines directly to the site of injury to potentially avoid serious systemic side effects often associated with oral or intravenous delivery approaches and to potentially enable high and sustained drug exposure with only a single dose at the initial time of procedural or surgical intervention. Our approach does not require a material change in physician behavior and may result in significant pharmacoeconomic advantages, as it seeks to avoid recurrent invasive procedures, mitigate clinical complications that often result in prolonged and expensive acute hospital care, and improve patient outcomes, which could potentially decrease the likelihood of costly long-term, skilled nursing care. While we have initially applied our approach to acute neurological conditions, we intend to apply our Precisa development platform to develop treatments for other acute, serious conditions by targeting other organs across additional therapeutic targets, including trauma, cardiovascular disease and plastic and reconstructive surgery.

We retain worldwide rights to all of our product candidates. If we receive marketing authorization for our products, we intend to establish targeted commercialization and marketing capabilities for our products in the United States and Canada by developing a hospital sales force of up to 50 representatives that would focus on academic medical centers and other major medical centers treating acute neurological conditions. In the United States and Canada, approximately 500 top academic medical centers treat approximately 75% of all aSAH patients. As such, we believe a small, targeted sales force could effectively cover these institutions and successfully commercialize our products, if approved. We believe a similar sized sales force would be appropriate for Europe. For commercialization outside of the United States and Canada, we may enter into collaborations with strategic partners.

We are led by a team of executives and directors with significant experience in drug discovery, development and commercialization. Our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Brian A. Leuthner, has been responsible for developing, launching and selling products in the hospital market for GlaxoWellcome plc, Johnson &#38; Johnson, ESP Pharma, Inc. and The Medicines Company. Our other co- founder and Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. R. Loch Macdonald, is a world-renowned neurosurgeon and expert in the research and management of acute neurological and neurosurgical conditions. Other members of our management team have held senior positions at Alpharma, Inc., Amgen Corporation, Celgene Corporation, ESP Pharma, Inc., Johnson &#38; Johnson, Medarex, MedPointe, Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, Purdue Pharma L.P and Schering Plough Corporation. In addition, our Chairman, Dr. Sol Barer is the former Chairman and CEO of Celgene, and the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board, Dr. Robert Langer, is a world-renowned scientist and pioneer in drug-delivery-related inventions.

&#160;

Page | 6 

Our Strategy

Our vision is to become a leading global biotechnology company that discovers, develops and commercializes novel, hospital- based therapies that transform treatment paradigms in the management of acute, life-threatening neurological conditions. We intend to utilize our product development and commercial execution strategies to achieve this vision. Key elements of our execution strategy are as follows:

&#8226; Rapidly develop our lead product candidate, EG-1962, initially to improve clinical outcomes following aSAH. We completed the NEWTON trial in North America, enrolling 72 patients in six different dose cohorts with doses ranging from 100 mg to 1200 mg. We intend to initiate our pivotal Phase 3 program in mid-2016 in the United States and expand globally in centers across North America, Europe and Australasia. 

&#8226; Expand the development of EG-1962 for intracisternal administration to improve clinical outcomes in patients with aSAH. In order to deliver EG-1962 to aSAH patients that do not receive an EVD as standard of care, we intend to conduct a study administering EG-1962 into the basal cisterns. 

&#8226; Develop our second product candidate, EG-1964, to prevent recurrent bleeding after treatment for cSDH. Following the completion of formulation and related preclinical studies, we intend to submit an IND for EG-1964, our aprotinin-based product candidate, in 2017. 

&#8226; Evaluate other indications for EG-1962 in therapeutic areas inside and outside of the brain, such as ophthalmology and plastic and reconstructive surgery. Published literature indicates that L-type calcium channel blockers have a broad range of potential uses in other therapeutic areas. By using our proprietary Precisa platform to enable site specific sustained delivery of nimodipine to a target organ, we believe that EG-1962 may demonstrate increased safety and/or efficacy in these therapeutic areas over existing standards of care. 

&#8226; Commercialize our product candidates, including EG-1962 and EG-1964, if approved, through a targeted sales force in the United States and Canada and with potential strategic partnerships outside of these regions. We have retained the worldwide rights to all of our product candidates and intend to build a hospital-focused sales organization to market our approved products. We intend to establish targeted sales forces in the United States and Canada for EG-1962, if approved, to sell into medical centers capable of treating acute neurological conditions. Due to the large overlap of sales force call points between EG-1962 and EG-1964, we expect to effectively market EG-1964, if approved, with only a modest increase in sales representatives. 

&#8226; Leverage our proprietary, programmable, polymer-based Precisa development platform to develop life-saving therapies in acute care areas. We intend to expand the use of our Precisa development platform in other therapeutic areas, such as neurooncology, general surgery, ophthalmology and plastic and reconstructive surgery. Depending on the specific needs of the targeted therapy, these initiatives may focus on applying our Precisa development platform to previously approved medicines, or may result from the collaboration on, or in-licensing and development of, new chemical entities. 

&#8226; Continue to seek to maintain high barriers to entry around our product candidates and the markets in which they are utilized by using a multi-layered approach. Our first layer of defense relates to obtaining regulatory exclusivity when and where available. The next layer relates to patent rights. We currently have three issued U.S. patents, including composition of matter related to EG-1962, 11 issued foreign patents, five notices of acceptance of foreign applications, and more than 70 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. Another layer of defense involves technical operations and manufacturing know-how and trade secrets relating to the design and manufacture of products using our Precisa development platform. An additional layer involves the difficulty a competitor may experience in proving bioequivalence. If a competitor were to attempt to prove bioequivalence, we believe the competitor would be required to conduct human clinical trials to demonstrate, for example, that direct delivery of a competitive product to the brain would have to present similar (and not lesser) safety and efficacy than that established by EG-1962 or any of our other product candidates. 

&#160;

Page | 7 

Our Product Candidates

&#160;

EG-1962 for aSAH

EG-1962, a polymer-based microparticle containing nimodipine suspended in a diluent of hyaluronic acid was developed using our Precisa development platform to improve patient outcomes following aSAH. Nimodipine, delivered via oral or intravenous routes of administration, is currently the standard of care for the management of aSAH and is believed to work by modifying several pathways contributing to unfavorable outcomes. Current treatment guidelines recommend that all aSAH patients within 96 hours after aneurysm rupture receive nimodipine orally every four hours over a 21-day period. However, the ability to achieve optimal therapeutic levels of nimodipine when it is administered orally or intravenously may be limited by serious side effects, primarily hypotension, which can exacerbate the complications of aSAH. We believe that a single intraventricular dose of EG-1962 has the potential to improve patient outcomes by delivering high and sustained concentrations of nimodipine over a 21-day period directly to the brain while avoiding these dose-limiting side effects.

Background on aSAH

An aSAH is a brain hemorrhage after which blood from a ruptured aneurysm enters the subarachnoid space, the area between the middle and deepest protective layers of the brain. The World Health Organization and published medical literature estimates that approximately 600,000 individuals worldwide suffer an aSAH each year. In the United States, approximately 35,000 aSAH patients, with an average age of 52, arrive alive at the hospital each year, and approximately 75% of these patients suffer permanent brain damage or die within 30 days. Patients with aSAH typically present with a characteristic intense, unrelenting and overwhelming headache of sudden onset. After a CT scan is performed upon arrival at the hospital, the aneurysm is repaired to prevent rebleeding, and the patient is sent to the intensive care unit for close monitoring over a 14 to 21 day period. An EVD is placed into the fluid chambers of the brain to measure and manage intracranial pressure in what we believe to be approximately 50% of all aSAH patients. These EVDs may also serve as routes of administration for drugs, including EG-1962, if approved.

After the ruptured aneurysm is repaired, patients remain at risk for multiple complications that are managed over the course of the patient&#8217;s treatment to optimize clinical outcomes. DCI is a common and serious complication following aSAH that typically occurs within three to 14 days after aneurysm rupture and is believed to be caused by cerebral vasospasm and other mechanisms. DCI occurs in up to 30% of the patients that survive the initial hemorrhage. Clinical features of DCI after aSAH mostly consist of focal neurological deficits, or a decrease in the level of consciousness, the onset of which varies. DCI is sometimes reversible, but may also progress to death of brain tissue resulting in severe disability or death. It is thought that DCI and vasospasm are at least in part caused by the influx of calcium. When vasospasm and DCI occur after aSAH, rescue therapy is initiated and is comprised of hemodynamic management, which typically involves giving medicine to increase a patient&#8217;s blood pressure to try to push more blood and oxygen into the brain, and performing angioplasty, which involves injecting drugs directly into brain arteries to dilate such arteries or inflating small balloons into the narrowed arteries to open them. To date, the L-type calcium channel blocker nimodipine is the only drug approved in North America and Europe shown to have efficacy in reducing unfavorable clinical outcomes and neurological deficits after aSAH. However, given nimodipine&#8217;s limitations, better pharmacological treatments are needed to improve patient outcomes.

&#160;

Page | 8 

The pictures below illustrate the typical sequence of events for the up to 30% of aSAH patients who experience DCI.

&#160;

If these complications cannot be reversed during rescue therapy and DCI is not prevented, death of brain tissue results and leads to either permanent brain damage resulting in disability or death.

Current Standard of Care for aSAH

Current treatment guidelines in the United States and Europe recommend that all patients with aSAH should be administered oral or intravenous nimodipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker which is believed to block several pathways that contribute to unfavorable outcomes. The FDA approved nimodipine in the oral form of gelatin capsules, or gelcaps as Nimotop&#174; in 1988. In 2013, the FDA approved Nymalize&#174;, an oral solution of nimodipine, and granted it marketing exclusivity as a result of its orphan drug designation. Nymalize has only received regulatory approval in the United States. While not approved for intravenous administration in the United States, nimodipine is currently available in oral gelcaps, oral tablets and/or intravenous forms in almost every country. Due to a lack of alternative therapies, nimodipine rapidly became standard of care and was incorporated into treatment guidelines for aSAH. Nimodipine is indicated to improve outcomes by reducing the incidence and severity of ischemic deficits following aSAH. In a meta-analysis of clinical trials, oral nimodipine demonstrated an approximately 11% absolute risk reduction in unfavorable outcomes as compared to placebo.

After aSAH, nimodipine is given over a 21-day course of treatment administered orally every four hours or intravenously.

However, dosages of nimodipine delivered orally or intravenously may be limited because nimodipine is non-selective and dilates not only brain arteries, but other arteries throughout the rest of the body. Arterial dilation can cause adverse effects, such as hypotension, by reducing blood flow to the already-injured brain, which can exacerbate the complications of aSAH. Therefore, we believe a significant need remains for a better, commercially viable method of providing higher and more sustained concentrations of nimodipine at the site of brain injury without the potential to cause serious systemic side effects, primarily hypotension, associated with current formulations of nimodipine.

Our Solution: EG-1962

EG-1962 is a proprietary formulation consisting of nimodipine encapsulated within a bioresorbable poly-D,L-lactide-co-glycolide, or PLGA, matrix and reconstituted with a hyaluronic acid, or HA, based buffer making a suspension that releases nimodipine over at least 21 days. The drug is administered directly into a cerebral ventricle via an EVD that is in place as standard of care.

We believe this targeted approach enables EG-1962 to deliver high and sustained therapeutic concentrations of nimodipine directly to the brain while maintaining low systemic nimodipine levels, thus improving patient outcomes and avoiding the serious side effects, primarily hypotension, associated with oral or intravenous nimodipine. If approved, it is anticipated that EG-1962 will be administered in the intensive care unit typically by the neurosurgeon or neurointensivist via an EVD after the patient has been stabilized following an aSAH. EG-1962 is programmed to release an initial dose of the nimodipine to quickly increase concentrations at the site of brain injury prior to the onset of any complications and then to release a steady dose of nimodipine over 21 days. If approved, we believe EG-1962 has the potential to address a significant unmet medical need and can become the standard of care for treatment of aSAH in patients who receive an EVD.

&#160;

Page | 9 

Clinical Trials

&#160;

The NEWTON trial was a multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label Phase 1/2 trial of EG-1962 compared to the standard of care oral nimodipine. Of the total of 72 patients enrolled in the NEWTON trial, 54 patients were randomized to EG-1962 and 18 patients were randomized to oral nimodipine.

The primary objectives of the NEWTON trial were to determine the maximum tolerated dose and safety and tolerability of a single intraventricular administration of EG-1962. The key secondary objective was to determine pharmacokinetics of EG-1962. Clinical outcomes at Day 90, including vasospasm, and DCI represented important exploratory clinical endpoints, along with intensive care unit, or ICU, and hospital length of stay, or LOS, information. The primary clinical outcome scale utilized was the GOSE. In the NEWTON trial, a score of 6 &#8211; 8 on the GOSE scale was considered a favorable outcome. This requires that patients are able to look after themselves and return to work, among other criteria.

Subjects were randomized 3 to 1 to receive either a single dose EG-1962 or standard of care oral nimodipine. EG-1962 was administered once intraventricularly within 60 hours of the onset of aSAH. Six dose-level cohorts (100, 200, 400, 600, 800 and 1200 mg) were evaluated. The active control was the standard of care, oral nimodipine. The active control group received 60 mg of oral nimodipine, which was administered every four hours for a total daily dose of 360 mg for 21 days in accordance with the currently approved dosing regimen. This dose of oral nimodipine remained unchanged except as medically warranted due to adverse events consistent with the standard of care

The figure below provides an overview of the trial design for each patient in the NEWTON trial:

&#160;

The primary enrollment criteria for the NEWTON trial was based on the patients&#8217; level of consciousness as measured by the World Federation of Neurological Surgeon&#8217;s scale, or WFNS scale. The WFNS scale stratifies patients into grades 1 &#8211; 5 with a score of 1 being the highest (or normal) level of consciousness, and a score of 5 being the least conscious. It is believed the level of consciousness is the best prognosticator of clinical outcome after aSAH. Patients in the NEWTON trial were enrolled if their WFNS score was between 2 and 4. The table below illustrates the WFNS scale:

&#160;

Page | 10 

The primary clinical outcome endpoint used to assess patients at 90 days in the NEWTON trial was the GOSE. The GOSE is a clinically validated scale developed from the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) to define broad outcome categories for people who sustain traumatic and non-traumatic brain injuries. GOS is a global scale that rates patient status into one of five categories: Dead, Vegetative State, Severe Disability, Moderate Disability and Good Recovery. The scale focuses on how the injury has affected functioning in major areas of life rather than on specific neurological deficits and symptoms caused by the injury. The GOSE is an expansion of the GOS that refines the clinical outcome assessments for severe disability, moderate disability and good recovery into upper and lower categories thereby creating an eight-point scale as follows:

&#160;

The GOSE is generally rated by a clinician or trained research assistant who conducts an interview with the patient or caregiver from a standardized questionnaire. The NEWTON trial protocol defined a &#8220;favorable outcome&#8221; for the exploratory clinical outcome as a GOSE score of 6-8 as measured at 90 days.

Clinical Results

&#160;

The primary endpoints of the NEWTON trial of safety, tolerability and MTD were all achieved, as were the secondary endpoint of characterizing the pharmacokinetics of EG-1962. Further, all exploratory endpoints favored EG-1962.

EG-1962 was well tolerated with only one serious adverse event reported, a possible allergic reaction in one patient following administration of EG-1962, which was immediately treated and resolved with no further clinical impact. This patient had a favorable clinical outcome. No patients (0 of 54) experienced EG-1962 related hypotension in the treated group, while 17% (3 of 18) of patients experienced oral nimodipine related hypotension.

We believe the pharmacokinetic results from the NEWTON trial cohorts demonstrate that single, intraventricular administration of EG-1962 provides high cerebral spinal fluid, or CSF, levels of nimodipine with plasma levels that do not exceed those associated with systemic hypotension. In the NEWTON trial, the mean maximum levels of nimodipine seen in the plasma ranged between 8.8 ng/mL (100 mg dose), and 25.4 ng/mL (800 mg dose), respectively This compares to mean maximum levels of 46.2 ng/mL seen in the standard of care oral nimodipine patients. In a trial published in the European Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, hypotension did not occur until plasma nimodipine concentration was greater than approximately 30 to 45 ng/mL.

We believe the pharmacokinetics data from the NEWTON trial show that the high CSF concentrations of nimodipine achieved with EG-1962 allow for more effective inhibition of calcium channels located on the smooth muscle cells within the walls of blood vessels. Nimodipine circulating in the plasma inside the blood vessel is able to access the calcium channels by crossing the blood brain barrier into the smooth muscle cells, while nimodipine circulating in the CSF is able to access the smooth muscle cells from the outer wall of the blood vessel. Once on the smooth muscle cells, nimodipine acts locally on harmful calcium-dependent mechanisms that may contribute to delayed neurological complications. We believe that because EG-1962 provides consistent steady-state plasma concentrations below those known to cause hypotension the dual-access of EG-1962 on the calcium channels may contribute to favorable patient outcomes.

The pooled exploratory efficacy results of the NEWTON trial showed that 60% (27 of 45) of patients treated with EG-1962 achieved a favorable outcome (GOSE scores of 6-8) at 90 days compared to only 28% (5 of 18) in the NEWTON trial&#8217;s active control standard of care oral nimodipine arm.

&#160;

Page | 11 

Our EG-1962 results compare favorably to both the NEWTON trial standard of care oral nimodipine arm and also to published historical data from other contemporary studies of severe aSAH patients treated with the current standard of care, which showed that only 17% (26 of 151) of such patients had favorable outcomes after 90 days (defined as GOSE scores of 6-8). In addition, 27% (12 of 45) of patients treated with EG-1962 in the NEWTON trial achieved a GOSE score of 8 (Upper Good Recovery), compared to only 6% (1 of 18) in the standard of care, oral nimodipine arm and less than 1% (1 of 151) in published historical data. This historical data, published in the journal &#8220;Neurocritical Care&#8221; on February 13, 2015, consisted of 151 patients who had WFNS scores of 2-4 with an EVD and outcomes measured by GOSE, which closely match the enrollment and evaluation criteria for our NEWTON trial.

Additionally, the NEWTON trial efficacy results were analyzed by WFNS score to compare rates of favorable outcome by WFNS Scale grade and as compared to historical control. In the analysis by WFNS score, EG-1962 showed more than twice the rate of favorable outcome for WFNS grade 2 patients versus oral nimodipine (89% vs 40%). For the lowest WFNS grade patients included in the NEWTON trial (WFNS 4 grade) there was nearly twice the rate of favorable outcomes in patients treated with EG-1962 versus the standard of care oral nimodipine (45% vs. 27%). The data are presented in the table below:

&#160;

Page | 12 

&#160;

There was no dose response with regards to efficacy noted in the individual cohorts. All EG-1962 dose cohorts achieved favorable outcome rates ranging from 44% to 78%. Differences in outcome rates were affected by the variability in WFNS scores and age among cohorts. The charts below show the key efficacy results for cohorts 1-5.

The NEWTON trial&#8217;s exploratory endpoints included rates of delayed complications such as angiographic vasospasm and DCI and the use of rescue therapy. The overall favorable results seen in the EG-1962 arm were supported by the reduction in angiographic vasospasm and DCI. EG-1962 reduced the risk of angiographic vasospasm/DCI by almost 50% (33% EG-1962 vs. 61% oral nimodipine). Rescue therapy for EG-1962 treated patients was reduced by 57% (24% EG-1962 vs. 56% oral nimodipine). The data for these exploratory endpoints are summarized in the table below:

Further analysis in those patients suffering angiographic vasospasm and/or DCI noted nearly a threefold greater rate of favorable outcome (53% EG-1962 vs. 18% standard of care oral nimodipine), which we believe suggests a pleiotropic effect (meaning actions other than those for which the agent was specifically developed) of higher nimodipine levels in the CSF versus standard of care oral nimodipine.

Additionally, EG-1962 reduced intensive care unit, or ICU, and hospital length of stay, or LOS, which are supportive of the overall clinical efficacy seen in NEWTON with EG-1962 and suggest meaningful pharmacoeconomic benefit. In the NEWTON Study, EG-1962 demonstrated a 3.5-day reduction in ICU length of stay compared to oral nimodipine (median EG-1962 LOS was 13.5 days, median oral nimodipine LOS was 17 days). In addition, EG-1962 demonstrated a 2.5 day reduction in hospital LOS compared to oral nimodipine (median EG-1962 LOS was 22.5 days, median oral nimodipine LOS was 25 days).

&#160;

Page | 13 

Planned Clinical Development

Based on End-of-Phase 2 feedback received from the FDA and from the EU Scientific Advice Working Party, and subject to any further feedback we may receive from the FDA, the overall design and key elements of our planned pivotal Phase 3 clinical study for EG-1962 in the treatment of aSAH has been determined. We expect to initiate this trial in mid-2016. We believe this Phase 3 clinical trial, if successful, could form the basis of a global marketing application of EG-1962 for the improvement of neurological outcome in adults with aSAH.

The proposed Phase 3 clinical trial is planned as a multi-center, multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, efficacy and safety study comparing EG-1962 to standard of care oral nimodipine in adults with aSAH in approximately 375 patients at approximately 65 centers in North America, Europe, and Australasia. We anticipate that it will take up to 24 months to enroll and evaluate these 375 patients. An interim analysis is anticipated at approximately 210 patients. It is expected that patients will be excluded from the trial for various reasons including lack of EVD, inability to administer EG-1962 within the required timeframe for treatment after aSAH, instances where there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, presence of certain underlying conditions or exposure to an investigational medicine or device within 30 days of planned enrollment in the trial.

Patients will be randomized 1 to 1 to receive either EG-1962 and placebo, or oral nimodipine and an intraventricular administration of sterile saline. In written correspondence from the FDA, the FDA was in agreement that the standard of care oral nimodipine gelatin capsules is an acceptable comparator for the proposed pivotal Phase 3 clinical study. The primary efficacy endpoint is the proportion of patients with a favorable outcome measured on the GOSE at Day 90 (GOSE 6 to 8) comparing patients treated with EG-1962 versus standard of care oral nimodipine gelatin capsules or tablets, which have been accepted as the comparator by the FDA in this trial. The secondary efficacy endpoints include safety, and the proportion of subjects with favorable neurocognitive outcome at Day 90. Additional pharmacoeconomic endpoints that will be measured include use of rescue therapy, number of days in ICU and hospital, and discharge disposition.

Regulatory Pathway

We expect to use the FDA&#8217;s Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FD&#38;C Act, enables an applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA&#8217;s findings of safety and efficacy for an existing approved product, or published literature, in support of its NDA. In Europe, we expect to use the Centralized Procedure for approval of EG-1962.

Commercial Strategy

Because an aSAH is a major medical emergency, patients are typically referred or immediately transported to academic or major medical centers where they are treated and monitored by a neurosurgeon or neurointensivist. If EG-1962 is approved, we plan to build a hospital sales force of up to 50 representatives in the United States and Canada targeting the academic and major medical centers, which are highly concentrated geographically. We believe that a small and targeted sales force could cover approximately 500 accounts or approximately 75% of all aSAH patients in the United States and Canada. We may also selectively partner with third parties to commercialize our products in other regions outside the United States and Canada.

Reimbursement

Because an aSAH is a major medical emergency, significant hospital resources are used to manage, treat and monitor patients. According to a study published in Neurosurgery in 2010, the average direct cost to treat an aSAH patient is approximately $50,000 more in direct hospital costs compared to patients without complications. In the same study, those patients suffering severe complications had an average length of stay of more than six days longer than those that did not experience severe complications. By contrast, patients treated with EG-1962 had a median reduction of ICU and hospital LOS of 3.5 and 2.5 days, respectively. Additionally, the lifetime cost of illness associated with chronically disabled patients presents a significant economic burden to the entire inpatient and long-term healthcare system. Further, we estimate that the average Medicare hospital charge in 2013 for a patient with an aSAH was about $150,000. Accordingly, we believe the pharmacoeconomic benefits of EG-1962, if approved, can further support adoption by hospital administrators and payors and may help to justify premium pricing.

Further Development of EG-1962

We intend to explore administration of EG-1962 by intracisternal administration to improve outcome in patients with aSAH who do not receive an EVD, but remain at risk for delayed neurological complications. Intracisternal administration involves placing a single administration of EG-1962 into the basal cisterns of the brain during surgical repair of the aneurysm.

&#160;

If successful, we believe intraventricular and intracisternal administration can establish EG-1962 as a prophylactic treatment to improve outcomes in a majority of patients with aSAH. We intend to begin clinical trials evaluating intracisternal administration of EG-1962 in 2016.

&#160;

Page | 14 

EG-1964

Our second product candidate, EG-1964, contains aprotinin, a pancreatic trypsin inhibitor initially marketed as Trasylol&#174;, and is being developed using our Precisa development platform for the management of chronic subdural hematoma, or cSDH, as a prophylactic treatment to prevent recurrent bleeding. By way of a single administration at the time of the first neurosurgical intervention, we believe EG-1964 can deliver a high concentration of aprotinin directly to the subdural space with sustained drug exposure over 21 to 28 days. Since there are no effective ways to determine which patients are at risk for the recurrence of SDH, we believe EG-1964, if approved, can be a prophylactic treatment for all patients with cSDH.

Background

&#160;

A cSDH is a liquefied hematoma that has accumulated on the surface of the brain in an area referred to as the subdural space. It is often caused by head trauma, most commonly in patients aged 60 or older. People who are taking blood thinners or have brain atrophy, a shrinking or wasting away of brain tissue due to age or disease are at an increased risk of cSDH. The picture below illustrates the location of a subdural hematoma in the brain.

When the brain shrinks inside the skull over time, even minor head trauma can cause blood to leak into the subdural space. This results in a slow accumulation of blood over several days to weeks and, over time, the subdural hematoma expands by recurrent bleeding due to excess fibrinolysis, a mechanism that breaks down blood clots. Diagnosis is typically made by neuroimaging techniques, such as CT and MRI brain scans. Typically, the initial presentation of SDH is managed with neurosurgical intervention during which small holes are drilled in the skull to drain the liquefied hematoma from the subdural space. Rebleeding in the subdural space occurs in up to 30% of cSDH patients, which requires a repeat neurosurgical intervention and is associated with risks of serious complications, including death.

Current Standard of Care

There are no therapeutic treatments currently available that reduce the risk of recurrence of cSDH. The only treatment available is to repeat the neurosurgical procedure during which another, often more extensive surgery is required to drain the liquefied hematoma from the subdural space. Some factors that have been identified as increasing the risk of recurrent bleeding include the use of anticoagulants or antiplatelet therapies and cerebral atrophy as a result of alcoholism or dementia, but none of these are highly predictive of recurrent bleeding, which occurs frequently in the absence of these factors and cannot be predicted reliably. Therefore, if a therapeutic were approved to decrease the incidence of rebleeding, it could potentially be used in most patients as a prophylactic treatment.

Our Solution: EG-1964

EG-1964, which utilizes our Precisa development platform containing aprotinin, is being developed for the potential management of cSDH as a prophylactic treatment to prevent recurrent bleeding. EG-1964 is being formulated to be administered by neurosurgeons to deliver a sustained dose of aprotinin over 21 to 28 days directly to the site of the SDH. Our development strategy leverages aprotinin&#8217;s mechanism of action as a clotting agent. We intend to submit an IND for EG-1964 in 2017, and, if accepted, we plan to initiate a Phase 1/2 trial for the management of cSDH thereafter.

&#160;

Aprotinin is a pancreatic trypsin inhibitor approved by the FDA in 1993 to reduce perioperative blood loss and the need for blood transfusion in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass in the course of coronary artery bypass graft surgery who are at an increased risk for blood loss and blood transfusion. Plasmin, a naturally produced enzyme, breaks down blood clots. Aprotinin, by inhibiting plasmin, preserves the ability for blood to clot, thereby limiting recurrent bleeding. In clinical trials, aprotinin reduced the percentage of patients requiring blood transfusions after cardiac surgery because of excessive bleeding by approximately 30%. By 2000, aprotinin became the standard of care to prevent excessive bleeding in cardiac surgery. However, use of aprotinin administered intravenously now has limited use in surgery due to the potential for serious side effects resulting from clotting outside of the targeted area

&#160;

We believe that delivery of aprotinin directly at the site of the brain injury would mitigate the potential increased risk of clotting and other systemic complications associated with the use of systemic aprotinin. Though initially approved for use after cardiac surgery and then other surgical procedures, we believe aprotinin&#8217;s mechanism of action would be effective to reduce or prevent rebleeding after surgery to drain a cSDH.

Clinical Development

The overall objective for EG-1964 is to establish it as an effective and safe treatment for preventing recurrence of cSDH. Upon completion of formulation development activities we intend to work with regulatory authorities to establish an acceptable path for clinical development. We intend to submit an IND for EG-1964 in 2017 where we will seek to conduct an clinical trial to assess the performance of the formulation by measuring the concentrations of aprotinin and fibinrolytic activity in chronic cSDH.

&#160;

Page | 15 

Commercial Strategy

Patients suffering from cSDH are typically treated in academic or major medical centers where they are monitored or managed by a neurosurgeon or neurointensivist. If both EG-1962 and EG-1964 are approved, we anticipate a large overlap in our sales force call points between EG-1962 and EG-1964; therefore, under this scenario, we plan to increase the size of our sales force only modestly to commercialize EG-1964. We may selectively partner with third parties to commercialize our products in regions outside of the United States and Canada.

Reimbursement

Bleeding in the subdural space typically recurs in up to 30% of patients and requires another surgical intervention, which is associated with risks of serious complications, including death, thereby increasing hospitalization costs. According to an article in the Journal of Neurosurgery in 2011, the cost of treatment for a subdural hematoma is approximately $50,000 per patient. If approved, we believe the pharmacoeconomic benefits of EG-1964 will encourage adoption by hospital administrators and payors and may help to justify premium pricing.

Our Precisa Development Platform

Precisa is our proprietary, programmable, biodegradable polymer-based development platform. Precisa&#8217;s proprietary nature stems from the use of our microparticle technology, know-how and trade secrets and that of our commercial partners. Precisa is programmable in that it allows us to systematically vary the physical and chemical properties of formulations, such as particle size and surface properties, as well as the type and mix of polymers in the formulation, in order to obtain the desired release kinetics of a specified therapeutic. For example, technology, know-how and trade secrets to which we have rights has resulted in the development of EG-1962, a formulation that is designed to utilize biodegradable PLGA microparticles to deliver a desired dose of nimodipine to the brain to improve patient outcomes following aSAH.

Precisa allows us to create polymer-based therapeutics that we believe are capable of delivering therapeutics directly to the site of injury to potentially avoid serious systemic side effects often associated with oral or intravenous delivery and to potentially enable high and sustained drug exposure with only a single dose at the initial time of procedural or surgical intervention.

&#160;

Rational Design . Once we have identified an unmet clinical condition and identified several therapeutics that may have activity against this condition, we engineer multiple types of polymer-based formulations and systematically vary physical and chemical properties, such as particle size, surface properties, dose level and release profile, using an established process. We program Precisa to achieve an initial and sustained release rate with effective targeting (based on form) for a particular administration given the organ or tissue target. We believe that this development platform allows us to advance a new product candidate from concept to preclinical testing in an expedited manner.

Targeted Delivery . We use Precisa to design our product candidates based on specific physical and chemical properties (size, shape, surface area) that allow for one-time administration at or near the targeted injured organ or tissue. The diagram below depicts the specific form of Precisa microparticles containing nimodipine (EG-1962) that are approximately 70 microns in diameter, which is small enough to allow easy administration through an EVD, yet large enough to prevent macrophages from carrying the microparticles away from the site of injury.

&#160;

Page | 16 

Controlled and sustained drug exposure . We program Precisa with a specific blend of polymers in order to obtain the desired release profile of the selected therapeutic. This is accomplished by immersing the specified therapeutic in a matrix of clinically-acceptable, biodegradable and biocompatible polymers. The polymeric foundation of EG-1962 is poly (DL-Lactic-co-glycolide), or PLGA, the polymer in dissolvable sutures that has been used since the 1970&#8217;s. PLGA is biodegradable, has minimal toxicity in humans, even when used intracranially, and is one of the few matrix delivery systems where drug release can be sustained over weeks. Upon administration, the therapeutic agent that is on the surface of the polymer is immediately released to provide high initial concentrations of such therapeutic agent. Subsequently, the therapeutic agent dispersed throughout the microparticle begins to diffuse through the polymer-based matrix and the polymer breaks down into lactic acid, a compound naturally found in the body, in order to deliver the therapeutic with the desired release profile.

Selection of Therapeutic

We can use our Precisa development platform to incorporate therapeutics with a wide range of physicochemical properties such as small molecules and proteins. We have demonstrated in preclinical and clinical studies that nimodipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, manufactured into a polymer-based microparticle and suspended in diluent of hyaluronic acid, provided differentiated pharmacokinetics. We are also using our Precisa development platform to formulate our second product candidate, EG-1964, which will contain aprotinin, an FDA-approved pancreatic trypsin inhibitor.

Intellectual Property

The protection of our product candidates, our manufacturing methods, delivery systems and patient treatment protocols, and associated know-how are important to our business. We have sought patent protection in the United States and internationally relating to EG-1962, our lead product candidate, a microparticulate formulation of nimodipine, EG-1964, which utilizes our Precisa development platform containing aprotinin, and for our other product candidates and other inventions, where available and when appropriate. Our policy is to seek, maintain and defend patent rights, whether developed internally or in-licensed, and to protect technologies, improvements and trade secrets that may be important to our business.

Our commercial success will depend in part upon obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for our current and future product candidates, including components of our proprietary formulations, methods of manufacturing our product candidates, delivery systems, and methods of treating patients with our product candidates, as well as successfully defending our patent rights against third-party challenges. Our ability to prevent or stop third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our product candidates will depend in part upon whether we have valid and enforceable patent rights that cover the activities of third parties.

Patent Rights

We have been building and will continue to build our patent portfolio. Where possible, we pursue multi-tiered patent protection for our product candidates and their manufacture, delivery and use. In addition to filing and prosecuting patent applications in the United States, we file counterpart patent applications in various countries and regions where we think such foreign filing is likely to be cost- effective.

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing of a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, a patent&#8217;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the PTO in granting a patent. However, the term of a United States patent may be shortened, if a patent is terminally disclaimed by its owner, over another patent.

Precisa Development Platform Containing Nimodipine

We have used our Precisa development platform, in collaboration with Evonik Industries, or Evonik, to develop pharmaceutical compositions that contain particular polymorphic forms of nimodipine. Based on the collaboration, we co-own, together with Evonik, one issued U.S. patent claiming a process for producing microparticles encapsulating a particular polymorphic form of nimodipine, a semisolid delivery system containing microparticles comprising the particular polymorphic form of nimodipine, and a method of treating a cerebral artery in a subarachnoid space at risk of interruption due to a brain injury using such a delivery system. This patent is expected to expire in 2033 if all maintenance fees are paid. We also co-own with Evonik a pending U.S. patent application and have patent applications pending in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Israel, Singapore, the United Kingdom, Brazil and Russia relating to these technologies. The issued U.S. patent covers the microparticulate formulation used in the NEWTON trial. Evonik, as successor to SurModics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or SurModics, under our license agreement initially with SurModics, has granted us an exclusive, field-restricted, worldwide, royalty-bearing license under its patent rights together with enforcement rights against infringers, all pursuant to our license agreement with Evonik relating to the co-owned patent rights. The Evonik license agreement is discussed in more detail below.

We also wholly-own one issued U.S. patent (expected to expire in 2029 if all maintenance fees are paid) directed to a method of treating a cerebral vasospasm in a human by administering a pharmaceutical composition via surgical injection into the subarachnoid space in a cistern closest to a cerebral artery at risk for vasospasm. We also have a pending application in the United States where we are pursuing claims directed to a microparticulate sustained release composition for treating a cerebral artery at risk of vasospasm in the subarachnoid space of a brain. We are also seeking or have already been granted patent protection in numerous countries and regions including, among others, Australia (patent granted), Canada, China, Europe, Israel (patent granted), Hong Kong, Japan (patent granted), Korea (two patents granted), Singapore (patent granted) and New Zealand (two patents granted).

&#160;

Page | 17 

We have a wholly-owned U.S. patent application directed to a multiparticulate delivery system for treating a delayed complication associated with brain injury where the brain injury includes interruption of at least one cerebral artery. We also have a U.S. patent application directed to a method of treating a cerebral artery in the subarachnoid space of a human at risk of interruption due to a brain injury by administering locally a microparticulate composition into a cerebral ventricle. Both U.S. patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2028 if all maintenance fees are paid. We are also seeking patent protection for these inventions in numerous countries and regions including, among others, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, Singapore, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, and Russia.

We have a wholly-owned U.S. patent application directed to a method for treating a cerebral artery at risk of interruption due to a subarachnoid hemorrhage in a human by administering intracisternally, intraventricularly, or intrathecally, a sustained release microparticulate composition having particular release kinetics of the therapeutic agent disposed in the composition. The U.S. patent application, if issued, is expected to expire in 2028 if all maintenance fees are paid. We are also seeking patent protection for these inventions in numerous countries and regions including, among others, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, Singapore, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, and Russia. We plan to file additional patent applications in other countries and regions at the appropriate time.

Precisa Development Platform Containing Aprotinin and Other Product Candidates

With respect to both EG-1964 and our other development efforts, we have one issued U.S. patent (scheduled to expire in 2028 if all maintenance fees are paid) directed to a method of treating hematoma expansion or recurrent bleeding resulting from a hemorrhagic condition (e.g., a chronic subdural hematoma) by administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising an anti-fibrinolytic agent (e.g., aprotinin). We also have a pending patent application in the United States where we are pursuing claims to a pharmaceutical composition containing an anti-fibrinolytic agent. We are also seeking patent protection in numerous countries and regions including, among others, Australia (patent granted), Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, Japan, Korea, Singapore (patent granted), New Zealand and Russia.

Trade Secrets

In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. For example, for some aspects of our proprietary technology, trade secret protection is more appropriate than patent protection. However, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies, for example, our manufacturing processes, via, among other things, confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, and commercial partners. We also seek to preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and know-how by implementing and maintaining security of our premises and information, and limiting access to our trade secrets and know-how.

License Agreement with Evonik

In October 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Surmodics, the predecessor to Evonik (the &#8220;Evonik Agreement&#8221;). Under the Evonik Agreement, we have an exclusive (even as to Evonik), worldwide, sublicensable and royalty-bearing license under certain Evonik patent rights (including patent rights jointly owned with Edge) and know-how to develop, make, have made, use offer for sale, sell export and import one or more specified active agents, including nimodipine, in a proprietary polymer-based formulation for intracranial delivery to prevent or treat delayed complications following intracranial hemorrhage. Depending on the manufacturing process we use, EG-1962 may be covered by Evonik patent rights (including patent rights jointly owned with Edge) and/or covered by Evonik know-how.

Under the terms of the Evonik Agreement, we paid to Evonik an initial upfront license payment and are obligated to pay up to $14.75 million in milestone payments upon achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestone events for each product covered by the Evonik Agreement (an &#8220;Evonik Licensed Product&#8221;). In addition, we are obligated to pay a mid-single-digit percentage on net sales of Evonik Licensed Products, subject to reduction for certain specified circumstances. Our royalty obligations for each Evonik Licensed Product will continue, on a country by country basis, for the longer of twelve years from the first commercial sale of the Evonik Licensed Product if there is no valid claim that covers the manufacture, use or sale of the Product, or the period of time during which the manufacture, use or sale of the Evonik Licensed Product is covered by a valid claim of a licensed Evonik patent. In addition, we agreed to pay Evonik 15% of any consideration received from a sublicense of the licensed Evonik intellectual property rights, which does not include any royalties on sales, funds received for research and development or proceeds from any equity or debt investment.

We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals to market each Evonik Licensed Product in major markets throughout the world and to maximize net sales after receipt of such approvals, as well as to achieve certain specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones.

In September 2015, we and Evonik entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Evonik Agreement. This amendment clarified our obligations to pay Evonik certain royalty and milestone payments in respect of Evonik Licensed Products whether or not manufactured by Evonik and removed our obligation to negotiate exclusively with Evonik for Phase 3 and commercial supply of EG-1962.

The term of the Evonik Agreement, as amended, will continue until the expiration of our obligation to pay royalties to Evonik. Either party may terminate the Evonik Agreement due to material breach by the other party. Evonik may terminate the license agreement or convert it to a non-exclusive license, in either case upon giving us written notice, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to hit certain specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones with respect to Evonik Licensed Products.

&#160;

Page | 18 

Manufacturing

Product candidates using our Precisa development platform are manufactured using a readily-scalable, single-step emulsion process with well-defined and reproducible operations. We do not own or operate cGMP compliant manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our product candidates and we do not have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. We currently rely on third-party contract manufacturing organizations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;) to produce the amounts of our product candidates necessary for our preclinical research and clinical trials. As part of the manufacture and design process for our product candidates, we rely on internal, scientific and manufacturing know-how and trade secrets and the know-how and trade secrets of third-party manufacturers. We currently employ internal resources to manage our manufacturing contractors.

In March 2015, we entered into a Master Formulation Development Agreement with Oakwood Laboratories, L.L.C., or Oakwood (the &#8220;Oakwood Agreement&#8221;), pursuant to which Oakwood will provide certain drug formulation development and manufacturing services for pharmaceutical products containing nimodipine , including EG-1962, in accordance with project plans to be entered into from time to time. Oakwood has performed process engineering and other scale up activities for us and is currently manufacturing and testing EG-1962 for use in our planned Phase 3 pivotal trial. We may terminate the Oakwood Agreement upon providing 90 days&#8217; prior written notice to Oakwood. Either party has the right to terminate the Oakwood Agreement for failure to cure a material breach in the applicable cure period. Neither we, nor Oakwood, has any obligation pursuant to the Oakwood Agreement to enter into any specific project plan now or in the future. Oakwood is currently the sole manufacturer of the EG-1962 we intend to use in our Phase 3 pivotal study. We do not have contractual relationships for the production of commercial supplies of any of our product candidates.

EG-1962 is a polymer-based microparticle containing nimodipine suspended in a diluent of hyaluronic acid. We currently have access to drug substance and diluent of EG-1962 and are working with our CMO to supply nimodipine microparticles for the planned Phase 3 trial. We currently have access to sufficient drug substance of EG-1964 and our other product candidates for formulation and our planned pre-clinical studies and are in the process of developing cGMP product for EG-1964 acceptable for use in future clinical trials.

Competition

Generally, our industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition and potential competition from a number of sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, drug delivery companies and academic and research institutions. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, as well as more experience in the development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and the commercialization of those products. Consequently, our competitors may develop products for the treatment of indications we are pursuing or may pursue in the future, and such competitors' products may be more effective, better tolerated or less costly than our product candidates. Our competitors may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we are. We will also face competition in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials.

To our knowledge, there is limited competition and are limited product candidates under development to improve patient outcomes after aSAH in the current marketplace. In the United States, only oral forms (gelatin capsules or solution) of nimodipine are approved for marketing for aSAH. In May 2013, Nymalize, an oral solution of nimodipine developed by Arbor Pharmaceuticals, LLC was approved by the FDA. We do not view this as a significant competitive product and anticipate usage only in patients who are unable to swallow oral gelatin capsules.

&#160;

In the United States, sodium nitrite has been tested by Hope Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in a Phase 1/2 trial in 18 patients. In Europe, only intravenous and oral forms of nimodipine are available. In Japan and some parts of Asia, fasudil (Eril &#174;) and ozagrel (a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor, various brand names) are available.

Government Regulation

Government authorities in the United States at the federal state and local level and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of drug products. Generally, before a new drug can be marketed, considerable data demonstrating its quality, safety and efficacy must be obtained, organized into a format specific to each regulatory authority, submitted for review and approved by the regulatory authority.

&#160;

FDA Approval Process

In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&#38;C Act), and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products.

Pharmaceutical product development for a new product or certain changes to an approved product in the U.S. typically involves preclinical laboratory and animal tests, the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical testing may commence, and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the product or disease.

&#160;

Page | 19 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation, and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including good laboratory practice, or GLP, requirements. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls, and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has neither commented on nor placed the IND on hold within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin.

Clinical trials generally involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with federal regulations; (ii) in compliance with good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements, which are a collection of FDA and international standards meant to protect the rights, health and safety of patients, and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators, and monitors, as well as ensure trial data integrity; and (iii) under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND.

Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the product or disease.

The submission of a new drug application, or NDA, is required to introduce a new drug product into the U.S. market. It is the responsibility of the company seeking to market a drug to test it and submit evidence that it is safe and effective for the proposed labeled indication and population. The FDA and their scientists reviews the sponsor's NDA containing the data and proposed labeling.

The goals of the NDA are to provide enough information to permit an FDA reviewer to reach the following key decisions:

&#160;

&#183; Whether the drug is safe and effective in its proposed use(s), and whether the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. 

&#183; Whether the drug's proposed labeling (package insert) is appropriate, and what it should contain. 

&#183; Whether the methods used in manufacturing the drug and the controls used to maintain the drug's quality are adequate to preserve the drug's identity, strength, quality, and purity. 

The documentation required in an NDA is supposed to tell the drug's whole story, including what happened during the clinical tests, what the ingredients of the drug are, the results of the animal studies, how the drug behaves in the body, and how it is manufactured, processed and packaged.

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the Agency&#8217;s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of new drug applications. Most such applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within ten to twelve months; most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed in six to eight months. Priority review can be applied to an application for a drug that treats a serious condition and that the FDA determines, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The review process may be extended by FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission.

Advisory committees provide independent advice and recommendations to the FDA on scientific and technical matters related to the development and evaluation of products regulated by the Agency. CDER requests advice from advisory committees on a variety of matters, including various aspects of clinical investigations and applications for marketing approval of drug products. Committee members are scientific experts such as physician-researchers and statisticians, and, on an ad hoc basis, may also include representatives of the public, including patients. Although the committees provide recommendations to the Agency, final decisions are made by FDA.

&#160;

Section 505(b)(2) NDAs

Section 505(b)(2) of the FD&#38;C Act enables the applicant to rely, in part, on FDA&#8217;s findings of safety and effectiveness in approving a similar product or published literature in support of its application. A Section 505(b)(2) NDA is one that contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness but where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference.

Section 505(b)(2) NDAs often provide an alternate path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. If the Section 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on FDA&#8217;s previous approval is scientifically appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or assessments to support the change from the approved product. The 505(b)(2) pathway may be used to seek approval of the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for new indication(s) for which the referenced product is not approved. For the latter, FDA would likely require clinical studies to support approval of the product candidate for use in the new indication(s).

To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on studies conducted for an already approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the Orange Book. The Orange Book identifies drug products approved on the basis of safety and effectiveness by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Thus approval of a Section 505(b)(2) NDA can be delayed until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired, until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired, and, in the case of a Paragraph IV certification that the listed patent is invalid or not infringed and subsequent patent infringement suit, until the earlier of 30 months, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the Section 505(b)(2) applicant.

&#160;

Page | 20 

Fast Track Designation

The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs that meet certain criteria. Specifically, a new drug is eligible for Fast Track designation if (i) it is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition for which there is no effective treatment and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition, or (ii). it has been designated as a qualified infectious disease product. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Any drug being developed to treat or prevent a condition with no current therapy obviously is directed at an unmet need. If there are available therapies, a fast track drug must show some advantage over available therapy, such as:

&#160;

&#8226;

Showing superior effectiveness, effect on serious outcomes or improved effect on serious outcomes;

&#8226;

Avoiding serious side effects of an available therapy;

&#8226;

Improving the diagnosis of a serious condition where early diagnosis results in an improved outcome;

&#8226;

Decreasing a clinical significant toxicity of an available therapy that is common and causes discontinuation of treatment; and

&#8226;

Ability to address emerging or anticipated public health need, such as a shortage.

A drug that receives Fast Track designation may be eligible for some or all of the following:

&#160; &#8226;

More frequent meetings with FDA to discuss the drug's development plan and ensure collection of appropriate data needed to support drug approval;

&#160; &#8226; 

More frequent written communication from FDA about such things as the design of the proposed clinical trials and use of biomarkers;

&#160; &#8226; 

Eligibility for Accelerated Approval and Priority Review, if relevant criteria are met;

&#160; &#8226; 

Rolling Review, which means that a drug company can submit completed sections of its Biologic License Application (BLA) or New Drug Application (NDA) for review by FDA, rather than waiting until every section of the NDA is completed before the entire application can be reviewed. BLA or NDA review usually does not begin until the drug company has submitted the entire application to the FDA; and

&#160; &#8226; 

If, based on preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, FDA determines that a fast track product may be effective, FDA may consider reviewing portions of the marketing applications before the sponsor submits the complete application.

Fast Track designation must be requested by the drug company. The request can be initiated at any time during the drug development process. FDA will review the request and make a decision within sixty days based on whether the drug fills an unmet medical need in a serious condition. Once a drug receives Fast Track designation, early and frequent communication between the FDA and a drug company is encouraged throughout the entire drug development and review process. The frequency of communication assures that questions and issues are resolved quickly, often leading to earlier drug approval and access by patients.

Accelerated Approval

In 2012, Congress passed the Food and Drug Administration Safety Innovations Act, or FDASIA. Section 901 of FDASIA amends the FD&#38;C Act to allow the FDA to base accelerated approval for drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions on whether the drug has an effect on a surrogate or an intermediate clinical endpoint.

&#160;

A surrogate endpoint used for accelerated approval is a marker - such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign or other measure - that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. Likewise, an intermediate clinical endpoint is a measure of a therapeutic effect that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on irreversible morbidity and mortality (IMM).

&#160;

The FDA bases its decision on whether to accept the proposed surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint on the scientific support for that endpoint. Studies that demonstrate a drug&#8217;s effect on a surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint must be &#8220;adequate and well controlled&#8221; as required by the FD&#38;C Act.

&#160;

Using surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoints can save valuable time in the drug approval process. For example, instead of having to wait to learn if a drug actually extends survival for cancer patients, the FDA may approve a drug based on evidence that the drug shrinks tumors, because tumor shrinkage is considered reasonably likely to predict a real clinical benefit. In this example, an approval based upon tumor shrinkage can occur far sooner than waiting to learn whether patients actually lived longer. The drug company will still need to conduct studies to confirm that tumor shrinkage actually predicts that patients will live longer. These studies are known as phase 4 confirmatory trials.

&#160;

Where confirmatory trials verify clinical benefit, FDA will generally terminate the requirement. Approval of a drug may be withdrawn or the labeled indication of the drug changed if trials fail to verify clinical benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug (e.g., show a significantly smaller magnitude or duration of benefit than was anticipated based on the observed effect on the surrogate).

Breakthrough Designation

Breakthrough Therapy designation is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint(s).

&#160;

To determine whether the improvement over available therapy is substantial is a matter of judgment and depends on both the magnitude of the treatment effect, which could include duration of the effect, and the importance of the observed clinical outcome. In general, the preliminary clinical evidence should show a clear advantage over available therapy.

&#160;

For purposes of Breakthrough Therapy designation, a clinically significant endpoint generally refers to an endpoint that measures an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality (IMM) or on symptoms that represent serious consequences of the disease. A clinically significant endpoint can also refer to findings that suggest an effect on IMM or serious symptoms, including:

&#160;

&#8226; An effect on an established surrogate endpoint; 

&#8226; An effect on a surrogate endpoint or intermediate clinical endpoint considered reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit (i.e., the accelerated approval standard); 

&#8226; In rare cases, an effect on a pharmacodynamic biomarker(s) that does not meet criteria for an acceptable surrogate endpoint, but strongly suggests the potential for a clinically meaningful effect on the underlying disease; or 

&#160;

Page | 21 

&#8226; A significantly improved safety profile compared to available therapy (e.g., less dose-limiting toxicity for an oncology agent), with evidence of similar efficacy. 

&#160;

A drug that receives Breakthrough Therapy designation is eligible for the following: 

&#8226; All Fast Track designation features; 

&#8226; Intensive guidance on an efficient drug development program, beginning as early as Phase 1; and 

&#8226; Organizational commitment involving senior managers. 

Breakthrough Therapy designation is requested by the drug company. If a sponsor has not requested breakthrough therapy designation, FDA may suggest that the sponsor consider submitting a request if: (1) after reviewing submitted data and information (including preliminary clinical evidence), the Agency thinks the drug development program may meet the criteria for Breakthrough Therapy designation and (2) the remaining drug development program can benefit from the designation.

&#160;

Ideally, a Breakthrough Therapy designation request should be received by FDA no later than the end-of-phase-2 meetings if any of the features of the designation are to be obtained. Because the primary intent of Breakthrough Therapy designation is to develop evidence needed to support approval as efficiently as possible, FDA does not anticipate that Breakthrough Therapy designation requests will be made after the submission of an original BLA or NDA or a supplement. FDA will respond to Breakthrough Therapy designation requests within sixty days of receipt of the request.

Post-Approval Requirements

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post- marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product, or the FDA may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. If at any time the FDA becomes aware of new information regarding the safety of an approved product, the FDA may issue an early public safety alert that makes initial recommendations in light of the new information until the FDA fully evaluates the information and makes final conclusions and recommendations. The FDA may also require manufacturers to change product labeling to address the new safety concerns.

In addition, quality-control, drug manufacture, packaging, and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMP. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing, or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered.

The Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FD&#38;C Act

Orange Book Listing

In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent whose claims cover the applicant&#8217;s product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA&#8217;s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential generic competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through testing to be bioequivalent to the listed drug. Other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing, ANDA applicants are not required to conduct, or submit results of, pre-clinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as &#8220;generic equivalents&#8221; to the listed drug, and, subject to state laws, can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug.

The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#8217;s Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. The ANDA applicant may also elect to submit a section viii statement certifying that its proposed ANDA label does not contain (or carves out) any language regarding the patented method-of-use rather than certify to a listed method-of-use patent. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired.

A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#8217;s listed patents, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the ANDA applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant.

The ANDA application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired.

&#160;

Page | 22 

Patent Term Extension and Marketing Exclusivity

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, a portion of a product&#8217;s U.S. patent term that was lost during clinical development and regulatory review by the FDA may be restored. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments also provide for a statutory protection, known as non-patent exclusivity, against the FDA&#8217;s acceptance or approval of certain competitor applications.

After NDA approval, owners of relevant drug patents may apply for up to a five year patent extension. The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug&#8217;s testing phase - the time between IND application and NDA submission &#8211; and all of the review phase &#8211; the time between NDA submission and approval up to a maximum of five years. The time can be shortened if FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence. The total patent term after the extension may not exceed 14 years.

For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension. An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times. For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year. The director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely. Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug for which an NDA has not been submitted. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration.

Market exclusivity provisions under the FD&#38;C Act also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FD&#38;C Act provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FD&#38;C Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, Section 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the nonclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness.

Orphan Drugs

Under the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, or the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition &#8211; generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular drug to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the U.S. for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market any drug considered the same drug as the drug with the orphan drug exclusivity for the same disease, except in limited circumstances, such as if the second applicant demonstrates the clinical superiority of its product to the product with orphan drug exclusivity through a demonstration of superior safety, superior efficacy, or a major contribution to patient care. In addition, if a company seeks orphan drug designation for a drug considered the same drug as a drug previously approved for the orphan indication at issue, the FDA will not designate the same drug as an orphan drug unless the company articulates a plausible hypothesis of the clinical superiority of its drug to the approved drug, and, following such designation, if the previously approved drug has unexpired orphan drug exclusivity, FDA will not approve the subsequent drug unless the sponsor demonstrates clinical superiority over the previously approved drug prior to approval. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA application user fee.

Pediatric Information

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, NDAs or supplements to NDAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. Recently, FDASIA amended the FD&#38;C Act to require that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug or biological product that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within sixty days of an end-of-Phase 2 meeting or as may be agreed between the sponsor and FDA. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric trial or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including trial objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. The FDA and the sponsor must reach agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from nonclinical studies, early phase clinical trials, and/or other clinical development programs. Since EG-1962 has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA Office of Orphan Product Development, or OOPD, it is exempt from the requirements of the PREA.

&#160;

Page | 23 

The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, or BPCA, amended the FD&#38;C Act to provide NDA holders a six-month extension of any exclusivity&#8211;patent or non-patent&#8211;for a drug if certain conditions are met. Conditions for exclusivity include the FDA&#8217;s determination that information relating to the use of a new drug in the pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population, the FDA making a written request for pediatric studies as outlined in the FD&#38;C Act, and the applicant agreeing to perform, and reporting on, the requested studies within the statutory timeframe.

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information

Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including drugs, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information, which is publicly available at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Similar requirements apply under new European Union Clinical Trial Regulation. Information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, trial sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial is then made public as part of the registration. Sponsors are also obligated to discuss the results of their clinical trials after completion. Disclosure of the results of these trials can be delayed until the new product or new indication being studied has been approved. Competitors may use this publicly available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs.

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. In the United States, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include Federal and State healthcare program, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Moreover, a payor&#8217;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that adequate reimbursement will be provided for the product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.

Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In order to obtain coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, we may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain regulatory approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. If third-party payors do not consider a product to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover the product after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow a company to sell its products at a profit.

The U.S. government and state legislatures have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment initiatives to limit the growth of Federal and State healthcare program costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs. By way of example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Healthcare Reform Law, contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products, including, for example, increased rebates for drugs reimbursed by Medicaid programs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies&#8217; share of sales to federal health care programs. Adoption of government controls and measures, and tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceuticals.

The marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on cost containment measures in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.

Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements

If we obtain regulatory approval of our products, we may be subject to various federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. In addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:

&#8226; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 

&#8226; federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent; 

&#8226; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 

&#160;

Page | 24 

&#8226; the federal transparency laws, including the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, that requires drug manufacturers to disclose payments and other transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals; 

&#8226; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and 

&#8226; state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

The Healthcare Reform Law broadened the reach of the fraud and abuse laws by, among other things, amending the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. &#167; 1320a-7b. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act or the civil monetary penalties statute. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

The federal False Claims Act prohibits anyone from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to federal programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for items or services, including biological products, that are false or fraudulent. Although we would not submit claims directly to payers, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to &#8220;cause&#8221; the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. In addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. For example, pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under the federal False Claims Act in connection with their off-label promotion of drugs. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, and, although the federal False Claims Act is a civil statute, conduct that results in a False Claims Act violation may also implicate various federal criminal statutes. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions under the federal False Claims Act and certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act.

Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act

In March 2010, the Healthcare Reform Law was enacted, which includes measures that have or will significantly change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following:

&#8226; The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer&#8217;s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Effective in 2010, PPACA made several changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers&#8217; rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs and biologic agents from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP and adding a new rebate calculation for &#8220;line extensions&#8221; (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. The Healthcare Reform Law also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization as of 2010 and by expanding the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits, to be phased-in by 2014. The Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, have proposed to expand Medicaid rebate liability to the territories of the United States as well. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law provides for the public availability of retail survey prices and certain weighted average AMPs under the Medicaid program. The implementation of this requirement by the CMS may also provide for the public availability of pharmacy acquisition of cost data, which could negatively impact our sales. 

&#8226; In order for a pharmaceutical product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. Effective in 2010, the Healthcare Reform Law expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, under the current state of the law, with the exception of children&#8217;s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs when used for the orphan indication. In addition, as 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase. 

&#8226; Effective in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Law imposed a requirement on manufacturers of branded drugs and biologic agents to provide a 50% discount off the negotiated price of branded drugs dispensed to Medicare Part D patients in the coverage gap (i.e., &#8220;donut hole&#8221;). 

&#8226; Effective in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Law imposed an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications. 

&#8226; The Healthcare Reform Law required pharmaceutical manufacturers to track certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, including any &#8220;transfer of value&#8221; made or distributed to such entities, as well as any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Manufacturers were required to begin tracking this information in 2013 and to report this information to CMS on an annual basis beginning in 2014. The reported information was publicly available in a searchable format on a CMS website in September 2014 and will be made publicly available on an annual basis. 

&#160;

Page | 25 

&#8226; As of 2010, a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute was established pursuant to PPACA to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. The research conducted by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute may affect the market for certain pharmaceutical products. 

&#8226; The Healthcare Reform Law created the Independent Payment Advisory Board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. Under certain circumstances, these recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings. 

&#8226; The Healthcare Reform Law established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. 

European Union Drug Review Approval

Pursuant to Article 3(1) of and Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004, the Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, and medicinal products containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EU/EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or for products which are in the interest of patients at the EU level. The National MA procedures are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure.

Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EU/EEA, this National MA can be recognized in other Member States through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the Mutual Recognition and Decentralized Procedure an identical dossier is submitted to the competent authorities of each of the Member States in which the MA is sought. Under the Decentralized Procedure, one of these Member States is selected by the applicant as the Reference Member State, or RMS. Under the Mutual Recognition Procedure the Member State who has already granted an MA acts as the RMS. If the RMS proposes to authorize the product, and the other Member States do not raise objections relating to serious risk to public health, the product is granted a national MA in all the Member States where the authorization was sought. Irrespective of the regulatory procedure, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EU/EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.

In European Union member states, nimodipine has been approved for administration orally in tablet form and intravenously by injection. EG-1962 has been granted an orphan designation in Europe for the treatment of aSAH.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015 we had 24 full-time employees, of whom six held Ph.D. degrees, one held an M.D. degree and one held a D.O. degree. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages. We believe that relations with our employees are good.

Corporate and Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in 2009. We completed the initial public offering of our common stock in October 2015. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol &#8220;EDGE.&#8221; We are an &#8220;emerging growth company&#8221; under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, and therefore we are currently subject to reduced public company reporting requirements.

Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Connell Drive, Berkeley Heights, NJ 07922, and our telephone number is (800) 208-3343.

You may find on our website (http://www.edgetherapeutics.com) electronic copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments thereto) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such filings are placed on our website as soon as reasonably possible after they are filed with the SEC. Our most recent charter for our audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance committees and our Code of Ethics are available on our website as well. Any waiver of our Code of Ethics may be made only by our Board of Directors. Any waiver of our Code of Ethics for any of our directors or executive officers must be disclosed on a Current Report on Form 8-K within four business days, or such shorter period as may be required under applicable regulation.

You can read our SEC filings over the internet at the SEC&#8217;s web site at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at its public reference facilities at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain copies of the documents at prescribed rates by writing to the Public Reference Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (202) 551-8090 or (800) 732-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference facilities.

&#160;

Page | 26 

