 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Corporate Overview 

Peoples Bancorp Inc. is a financial holding company and was organized in 1980. Peoples operates principally through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Peoples Bank. As of the date of this Form 10-K, Peoples' other wholly-owned subsidiary was Peoples Investment Company and Peoples held all of the common securities of NB&#38;T Statutory Trust III, which was acquired in connection with the acquisition of NB&#38;T Financial Group, Inc. ("NB&#38;T") on March 6, 2015 as described below. Peoples Bank's operating subsidiaries include Peoples Insurance Agency, LLC ("Peoples Insurance") and two asset management companies, PBNA, L.L.C. and Peoples Tax Credit Equity, LLC. Peoples Investment Company has one subsidiary, Peoples Capital Corporation. 

Peoples Bank was first chartered in 1902 as an Ohio banking corporation under the name "The Peoples Banking and Trust Company" in Marietta, Ohio, and in 2000 was reorganized as a national banking association under the name "Peoples Bank, National Association". Effective December 30, 2015, the banking subsidiary converted from a national banking association back to an Ohio state-chartered bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As a result of the charter conversion, the legal name of Peoples' banking subsidiary was changed to "Peoples Bank" and the converted bank will continue to operate under the trade name and federally registered service mark "Peoples Bank". Additionally, Peoples' banking subsidiary will see a reduction in the annual cost associated with regulatory examination fees commencing in 2016. Peoples Insurance was first chartered in 1994 as an Ohio corporation under the name "Northwest Territory Property and Casualty Insurance Agency, Inc". In late 1995, Peoples Insurance was awarded insurance agency powers in the state of Ohio, becoming the first insurance agency in Ohio to be affiliated with a financial institution. In 2009, Peoples Insurance was converted from an Ohio corporation to an Ohio limited liability company under its current name. 

&#32;Peoples Investment Company, its subsidiary, Peoples Capital Corporation, and PBNA, L.L.C. were formed in 2001, and Peoples Tax Credit Equity, LLC. was formed in 2014, to optimize Peoples' consolidated capital position and provide new investment opportunities as a means of enhancing profitability. These opportunities include, but are not limited to, investments in affordable housing tax credit funds or projects, historical tax credit funds, venture capital and other higher risk investments, which are either limited or restricted as investments by Peoples Bank. Presently, the operations of these companies do not represent a material part of Peoples' overall business activities. 

Business Overview 

Peoples makes available a complete line of banking, insurance, investment and trust solutions through its financial units &#8211; Peoples Bank and Peoples Insurance. These products and services include the following: 

&#9702; various demand deposit accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and certificates of deposit; 

&#9702; commercial, consumer and real estate mortgage loans (both commercial and residential) and lines of credit; 

&#9702; debit and automated teller machine ("ATM") cards; 

&#9702; credit cards for individuals and businesses; 

&#9702; merchant credit card transaction processing services; 

&#9702; corporate and personal trust services; 

&#9702; safe deposit rental facilities; 

&#9702; money orders and cashier's checks; 

&#9702; a full range of life, health and property and casualty insurance products; 

&#9702; brokerage services; and 

&#9702; custom-tailored fiduciary, employee benefit plans and asset management services. 

Peoples' financial products and services are offered through its financial service locations and ATMs in Ohio, West Virginia and Kentucky, as well as telephone and internet-based banking through both personal computers and mobile devices. Brokerage services are offered exclusively through an unaffiliated registered broker-dealer located at Peoples Bank's offices. Peoples Bank credit card and merchant processing services are provided, through joint marketing arrangements with third parties. 

&#32;3 

Peoples' business activities are currently limited to one reporting unit and reportable segment, which is community banking. For a discussion of Peoples' financial performance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , see Peoples' Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements found immediately following "ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION" of this Form 10-K. 

Peoples has a history of expanding its business, including its customer base and primary market area, through a combination of internal growth and targeted acquisitions. The internal growth may include the opening of de novo &#32;banking and loan production offices located in or near Peoples' existing market area. Acquisitions have consisted of traditional banking offices, both individually and as part of entire institutions, insurance agencies and financial advisory books of business. The primary objectives of Peoples' expansion efforts include: (1) providing opportunities to integrate non-traditional products and services, such as insurance and investments, with the traditional banking products offered to its clients; (2) increasing market share in existing markets; (3) expanding Peoples' core financial service businesses of banking, insurance and investments; and (4) improving operating efficiency by directing resources toward offices and markets with the greatest earnings opportunities. 

Recent Corporate Developments 

On March 6, 2015, Peoples completed its acquisition of NB&#38;T, which included the assumption of Fixed/Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debt Securities due 2037 (the "junior subordinated debt securities") at an acquisition-date fair value of $6.6 million held in NB&#38;T Statutory Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust whose common securities were wholly-owned by NB&#38;T (the "Statutory Trust"). The sole assets of the Statutory Trust are the junior subordinated debt securities and related payments. The junior subordinated debt securities and the back-up obligations, in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of the Statutory Trust with respect to the Capital Securities held by third-party investors. Distributions on the Capital Securities are payable at the annual rate of 1.50% over the 3-month LIBOR. Distributions on the Capital Securities are included in interest expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These securities are considered Tier I capital (with certain limitations applicable) under current regulatory guidelines. The junior subordinated debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the Capital Securities at maturity or their earlier redemption at the liquidation amount. Subject to prior approval of the Federal Reserve, the Capital Securities are redeemable prior to the maturity date of September 6, 2037, and are redeemable at par. Since September 6, 2012, the Capital Securities have been redeemable at par, subject to such approval. Distributions on the Capital Securities can be deferred from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive semi-annual periods. If Peoples elected to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities, or an event of default were to occur under the indenture governing the junior subordinated debt securities, Peoples would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the Peoples common shares, prohibited from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of the Peoples common shares and prohibited from making any payment to holders of Peoples common shares in the event of Peoples' liquidation. 

Effective December 30, 2015, Peoples' banking subsidiary converted from a national banking association to an Ohio state-chartered bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As a result of the charter conversion, the legal name of Peoples' banking subsidiary was changed to "Peoples Bank" and the converted bank will continue to operate under the trade name and federally registered service mark "Peoples Bank". Additionally, Peoples' banking subsidiary will see a reduction in the annual cost associated with regulatory examination fees commencing in 2016. 

On January 6, 2016, Peoples acquired a book of business from a financial advisor that was located in Marietta, Ohio. Upon the terms and conditions of the purchase agreement, Peoples acquired certain rights with respect to that book of business in exchange for payments to be made by Peoples to the seller. 

Primary Market Area and Customers 

Peoples considers its primary market area to consist of the counties where it has a physical presence and neighboring counties, which includes northeastern, central, southwestern and southeastern Ohio, west central West Virginia, and northeastern Kentucky. Peoples currently operates 63 locations in Ohio, 14 locations in West Virginia and 5 locations in Kentucky. This primary market area largely consists of rural or small urban areas with a diverse group of industries and employers. Principal industries in this area include health care, education, agriculture and other social services; plastics, petrochemical and other manufacturing; oil, gas and coal production; and tourism and other service-related industries. Because of this diversity of industries and employers, Peoples' earnings are not significantly dependent upon any single industry segment. 

&#32;4 

Lending Activities 

Peoples Bank originates various types of loans, including commercial real estate loans, real estate construction loans, commercial and industrial loans, agriculture, residential real estate loans, home equity lines of credit, and consumer loans. Peoples Bank's lending activities are focused principally on lending opportunities within its primary market areas, although Peoples Bank may occasionally originate loans outside its primary markets. In general, Peoples Bank retains the majority of loans it originates; however, certain longer-term fixed-rate mortgage loan originations, primarily one-to-four family residential mortgages, and portions of select commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans are sold into the secondary market. 

Peoples Bank's loans consist of credit extensions to borrowers spread over a broad range of industrial classifications. At December 31, 2015 , Peoples Bank had no concentration of loans to borrowers engaged in the same or similar industries that exceeded 10% of total loans nor did it have any loans outstanding to non-U.S. entities. 

Commercial Lending 

Commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans ("commercial loans"), including loans secured by commercial real estate, represented the largest portion of Peoples Bank's total loan portfolio, comprising approximately 52.5% and 51.6% of total loans at December 31, 2015 &#32;and December 31, 2014, respectively. Commercial lending inherently involves a significant degree of risk of loss since commercial loan relationships generally involve larger loan balances than other loan classes. Additionally, the primary source of repayment for commercial loans is typically considered to be the cash flows of the borrower's business, which can be susceptible to adverse changes in the economic conditions of the general economy or within a specific industry. 

Commercial Lending Practices. &#32; Loan terms include amortization schedules and interest rates commensurate with the purpose of each loan, the identified source of repayment and the risk involved. The majority of Peoples Bank's commercial loans carry variable interest rates equal to an underlying index rate plus a margin, although Peoples Bank also originates commercial loans with fixed interest rates for periods generally ranging from 3 to 10 years. At December 31, 2015, the commercial loan portfolio consisted of 71.8% variable interest rate loans and 28.2% fixed interest rate loans. The primary analytical technique used in determining whether to grant a commercial loan is the review of a schedule of cash flows to evaluate whether the borrower's anticipated future cash flows will be adequate to service both interest and principal due. 

Peoples Bank evaluates all loan relationships whose aggregate credit exposure is greater than $5,000,000 on a quarterly basis and exposure greater than $1 million on an annual basis, for possible credit deterioration. This loan review process provides Peoples Bank with opportunities to identify potential problem loans and take proactive actions to assure repayment of the loan or minimize Peoples Bank's risk of loss, such as reviewing the relationship more frequently based upon the loan quality rating and aggregate outstanding exposure. Upon detection of the reduced ability of a borrower to meet cash flow obligations, the loan is reviewed for possible downgrade or placement on nonaccrual status. Loan relationships whose aggregate credit exposure to Peoples Bank is equal to or less than $1 million are reviewed on an event driven basis. Triggers for review include knowledge of adverse events affecting the borrower's business, receipt of financial statements indicating deteriorating credit quality or other events. 

Construction Loans 

Peoples Bank originates various construction loans to provide temporary financing during the construction phase for commercial and residential properties. At December 31, 2015 , outstanding construction loans comprised 3.7% of Peoples Bank's loan portfolio, compared to 2.4% at December 31, 2014. Construction financing is generally considered to involve the highest credit risk since Peoples Bank is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimated construction cost proves to be inaccurate, Peoples Bank may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to enable completion of the project. If the estimate of value proves inaccurate, Peoples Bank may be confronted, at or prior to the maturity of the loan, with a property having a value insufficient to ensure full repayment, should the borrower default. In the event a default on a construction loan occurs and foreclosure follows, Peoples Bank must take control of the project and attempt to either arrange for completion of construction or dispose of the unfinished project. In certain cases, such as real estate development projects, repayment of construction loans occurs as a result of subsequent sales of the developed real estate. Additional risk exists as the developer may lack funds to pay the loan if the property is not sold upon completion. 

Construction Lending Practices. &#32;Peoples Bank's construction lending is focused primarily on commercial and residential projects of select real estate developers and homebuilders. These projects include the construction of 

&#32;5 

office, retail or industrial complexes, and real estate development for either residential or commercial uses. The underwriting criteria for construction loans are generally the same as for non-construction loans. 

To mitigate the risk of construction lending, Peoples Bank requires periodic site inspections, typically completed by an independent third party, to ensure appropriate completion of the project prior to any disbursements. Construction loans are structured to provide sufficient time to complete construction, giving consideration to weather or other variables that influence completion time. In general, Peoples Bank typically requires the term of its construction loans to be less than three years. 

Residential Real Estate Loans 

While commercial loans comprise the largest portion of Peoples Bank's loan portfolio, residential real estate lending remains a major focus of Peoples Bank. The originated loans may either be retained in Peoples Bank's loan portfolio, or sold into the secondary market. Peoples Bank's portfolio of residential real estate loans comprised 27.3% of total loans at December 31, 2015 , and 29.6% at December 31, 2014. Peoples Bank also had $2.0 million &#32;of residential real estate loans held for sale and was servicing $390.4 million &#32;of loans, consisting primarily of one-to-four family residential mortgages, previously sold in the secondary market. Peoples Bank requires evidence of insurance at the time of the loan closing, and additionally, has a blanket insurance policy to cover residential real estate loans that do not include an insurance escrow account. 

Peoples Bank originates both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate real estate loans. Typically, Peoples Banks sells its longer-term fixed-rate real estate loans in the secondary market, while retaining the servicing rights on those loans. In select cases, Peoples Bank may retain certain fixed-rate real estate loans or sell the loans without retaining the servicing rights. 

Real Estate Lending Practices. &#32;Peoples Bank typically requires residential real estate loan amounts to be no more than 80% of the purchase price or the appraised value of the real estate securing the loan, whichever is lower, unless private mortgage insurance is obtained by the borrower for the percentage exceeding 80%. In limited circumstances, Peoples Bank may lend up to 100% of the appraised value of the real estate, although such lending currently is limited to loans that qualify under established federally-backed rural housing programs. Numerous risk factors attributable to real estate lending are considered during underwriting for the purposes of establishing an interest rate commensurate with the inherent risks of the loan. &#32; 

Real estate loans are typically secured by first mortgages with evidence of title in favor of Peoples Bank in the form of an attorney's opinion of the title or a title insurance policy. Peoples Bank requires insurance, with Peoples Bank named as the mortgagee and loss payee. Licensed appraisals are required for all real estate loans, and are completed by an independent third party. 

Home Equity Lines of Credit 

Peoples Bank originates home equity lines of credit that provide consumers with greater flexibility in financing personal expenditures. At December 31, 2015 , outstanding home equity lines of credit comprised 5.1% of Peoples Bank's total loans, compared to 5.0% at December 31, 2014. Peoples Bank currently offers home equity lines of credit with a prime-based variable rate for the entire 10-year term of the loan and fixed-rate installment loans with 5 to 15 year terms. Peoples Bank also offers a home equity line of credit whose terms include a fixed rate for the first five years which converts to a variable interest rate for the remaining five years. Of the total home equity loan portfolio, there were 94.2% and 5.8% of variable interest rate and fixed interest rate loans, respectively. At December 31, 2015 , total outstanding principal balances and available credit amounts of the convertible rate home equity lines of credit were $19.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively, and the weighted-average remaining maturity was 7.8 years. The average original loan amount for these convertible rate home equity lines of credit was approximately $33,000 at December 31, 2015 . 

Home Equity Lending Practices. &#32; Home equity lines of credit are generally made as second mortgages by Peoples Bank. The maximum amount of a home equity line of credit is generally limited to 80% of the appraised value of the property less the balance of the first mortgage. Peoples Bank may lend up to 90% of the appraised value of the property (less the balance of the first mortgage) at higher interest rates that are commensurate with the additional risk being assumed in these situations. The home equity lines of credit are written with 5 to 15-year terms and are subject to review upon request for renewal. 

Consumer Lending 

Peoples Bank's consumer lending activities primarily involve loans secured by automobiles, boats, recreational vehicles and other personal property, as well as unsecured loans and personal lines of credit. At December 31, 2015 &#32;and December 31, 2014, consumer loans comprised 11.3% of Peoples Bank's loan portfolio. 

&#32;6 

Consumer Lending Practices. &#32; Consumer loans generally involve more risk as to collectability than real estate mortgage loans because of the type and nature of the collateral or, in certain instances, the absence of collateral. As a result, consumer lending collections are dependent upon the borrower's continued financial stability, and are at more risk from adverse changes in personal circumstances. In addition, application of various state and federal laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, could limit the amount that may be recovered under these loans. Credit approval for consumer loans typically requires demonstration of sufficiency of income to repay principal and interest due, stability of employment, an established credit record and sufficient collateral for secured loans. It is the policy of Peoples Bank to review its consumer loan portfolio monthly and to charge-off loans that do not meet its ongoing standards, while strictly adhering to all laws and regulations governing consumer lending. A qualified compliance officer is responsible for monitoring regulatory compliance performance and for advising and updating loan personnel. 

Peoples Bank makes available optional credit life insurance, and accident and health insurance to all qualified borrowers, thus reducing risk of loss when a borrower's income is terminated or interrupted due to an accident, disability or death. 

Overdraft Privilege 

Peoples Bank grants Overdraft Privilege to qualified customers. Overdraft Privilege is a service that provides overdraft protection to retail deposit customers, and select commercial deposit customers, by establishing an Overdraft Privilege amount. After a 60-day waiting period to verify account activity, each new checking account usually receives an Overdraft Privilege amount of either $400 or $700, based on the type of account and other parameters such as previous charge-off history or loan loss. Once established, customers are permitted to overdraw their checking account at Peoples Bank's discretion, up to their Overdraft Privilege limit, with each item being charged Peoples Bank's regular overdraft fee, with a maximum of seven charges per day when the customer's account is overdrawn more than $5. Customers repay the overdraft with their next deposit. Overdraft Privilege is designed to allow Peoples Bank to fill the void between traditional overdraft protection, such as a line of credit, and "check cashing stores". Under federal banking regulations, Peoples Bank is required to obtain the consent of its customers in order to apply Overdraft Privilege to ATM and one-time debit card transactions. While Overdraft Privilege generates fee income, these fees may be offset by loan loss provisioning necessary to ensure the maintenance of an appropriate allowance for losses against overdrafts deemed uncollectable. This allowance, along with the related provision and net charge-offs, is included in Peoples Bank's allowance for loan losses. 

Investment Activities 

At December 31, 2015 , investment securities comprised 26.7% of Peoples' total assets compared to 27.8% at December 31, 2014. The majority of Peoples' investment activities are conducted through Peoples Bank, although Peoples and its non-banking subsidiaries also may engage in investment activities from time to time. Investment activity by Peoples Bank is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and limitations on the types of securities eligible for purchase. As a result, the investment securities owned by Peoples Bank include obligations of the U.S. Treasury, agencies and corporations of the U.S. government, including mortgage-backed securities, bank eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision in the U.S. and bank eligible corporate obligations, including private-label mortgage-backed securities. The investments owned by Peoples are comprised of common stocks issued by various unrelated banking holding companies. The investments owned by Peoples' non-banking subsidiaries currently consist of tax credit funds, corporate obligations, municipal obligations and privately issued mortgage-backed securities. 

Peoples Bank's investment activities are governed internally by a written Board of Directors-approved policy, which is administered by Peoples Bank's Asset-Liability Management Committee ("ALCO"). The primary purpose of Peoples Bank's investment portfolio is to: (1) employ excess funds not needed to support loan demand; (2) provide a source of liquid assets to accommodate unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations, and overall liquidity needs; (3) provide eligible securities to secure public and trust funds; and (4) earn the maximum overall return commensurate with Peoples Bank's risk appetite and liquidity needs. Investment strategies to achieve these objectives are reviewed and approved by the ALCO. In its evaluation of investment strategies, the ALCO considers various factors, including the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and anticipated loan demand, funding opportunities and Peoples Bank's overall interest rate sensitivity. The ALCO also has much broader responsibilities, which are discussed in the "Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity" section of "ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION" of this Form 10-K. 

&#32;7 

Funding Sources 

Peoples' primary sources of funds for lending and investing activities are interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits. Cash flows from both the loan and investment portfolios, which include scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, calls and maturities, also provide a relatively stable source of funds. Peoples also utilizes a variety of short-term and long-term borrowings to fund asset growth and satisfy liquidity needs. Peoples' funding sources are monitored and managed through Peoples' asset-liability management process, which is discussed further in the "Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity" section of "ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION" of this Form 10-K. 

The following is a brief description of the various sources of funds utilized by Peoples: 

Deposits 

Peoples Bank obtains deposits principally from individuals and businesses within its primary market area by offering a broad selection of deposit products to clients. Retail deposit account terms vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time the funds must remain on deposit, and service charge schedules. Interest rates paid on specific deposit types are determined based on (1) the interest rates offered by competitors, (2) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (3) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and (4) the anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Retail deposits are attractive sources of funding because of their stability and relative cost, in addition to providing opportunities for Peoples to build long-term client relationships through the cross-selling of its other products and services. 

Peoples Bank also offers its customers the ability to receive multi-million dollar federal deposit insurance coverage for certificates of deposit ("CDs") through the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service ("CDARS") program and money market deposit accounts through the Insured Cash Sweep Services ("ICS"). Under these programs, funds from large customer deposits are placed into accounts issued by other members of the CDARS or ICS network in increments below the federal deposit insurance limits to ensure both principal and interest remain eligible for insurance. 

Peoples Bank occasionally obtains deposits from clients outside its primary market area, generally in the form of CDs and has the ability, if needed, to obtain deposits from deposit brokers. These deposits are used to supplement Peoples Bank's retail deposits to fund loans originated to customers located outside its primary market area, as well as provide diversity in funding sources. While these deposits may carry slightly higher interest costs than other wholesale funds, they do not require Peoples Bank to secure the funds with collateral, unlike most other borrowed funds. 

Additional information regarding the amounts and composition of Peoples Bank's deposits can be found in the "Deposits" section of "ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION" of this Form 10-K and in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Borrowed Funds 

Peoples obtains funds through a variety of short-term and long-term borrowings, which typically include advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati ("FHLB") and repurchase agreements. Peoples also has the ability to obtain funds, if needed, through federal funds purchased and advances from the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Peoples also has the ability to obtain funds from unrelated financial institutions in the form of term loans or revolving lines of credit. Short-term borrowings are used generally to manage Peoples' daily liquidity needs since they typically may be repaid, in whole or part, at any time without a penalty. Long-term borrowings provide cost-effective options for funding asset growth and satisfying capital needs, due to the variety of pricing and maturity options available. 

Additional information regarding the amounts and composition of Peoples' borrowed funds can be found in the "Borrowed Funds" section of "ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION" of this Form 10-K and in Notes 8 and 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Competition 

Peoples experiences intense competition within its primary market area due to the presence of several national, regional and local financial institutions and other service providers, including finance companies, insurance agencies and mutual fund providers. Competition within the financial services industry continues to increase as a result of mergers between, and expansion of, financial services providers within and outside of Peoples' primary market areas. In addition, the deregulation of the financial services industry (see the discussion of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 in the section of this item captioned "Supervision and Regulation &#8211; Bank Holding Company Act") has allowed securities firms and insurance 

&#32;8 

companies that have elected to become financial holding companies to acquire commercial banks and other financial institutions, which can create additional competitive pressure. 

Peoples primarily competes based on client service, convenience and responsiveness to customer needs, product characteristics, interest rates on loans and deposits, and the availability and pricing of fiduciary, employee benefit plans, brokerage and insurance services. However, some competitors may have greater resources, including higher lending limits than Peoples, which may adversely affect Peoples' ability to compete. Peoples' business strategy includes the use of a "needs-based" sales and service approach to serve customers and incentives intended to promote customers' continued use of multiple financial products and services. In addition, Peoples continues to emphasize the integration of traditional commercial banking products with non-traditional financial products, such as insurance and investment products. 

Historically, Peoples has focused on providing its full range of products and services in smaller metropolitan markets rather than major metropolitan areas. While management believes Peoples has developed a level of expertise in serving the financial service needs of smaller communities, Peoples' primary market area has expanded into larger metropolitan areas, such as central, southwestern and northeastern Ohio. These larger areas typically contain entrenched service providers with existing customer bases much larger than Peoples' current position. As a result, Peoples may be forced to compete more aggressively in order to grow its market share in these areas, which could reduce current and future profit potential derived from such markets. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , Peoples had 817 &#32;full-time equivalent employees compared to 699 at December 31, 2014. The increase in full-time equivalent employees from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 was largely attributable to the acquisition of NB&#38;T completed on March 6, 2015. 

Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 

Peoples has registered the service marks "Peoples Bank (with logo)", "Peoples Bancorp", "Peoples Bank", Peoples in motion logo consisting of three arched ribbons, "Working Together. Building Success." and "peoplesbancorp.com" with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These service marks currently have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2021. Peoples may renew the registrations of service marks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office generally for additional 5 to 10-year periods indefinitely, provided it continues to use the service marks and files appropriate maintenance and renewal documentation with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office at the times required by the federal trademark laws and regulations. 

Peoples has a proprietary interest in the internet domain name "pebo.com". Internet domain names in the U.S. and in foreign countries are regulated, but the laws and regulations governing the internet are continually evolving. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Peoples and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state agencies. The regulation of financial holding companies and their subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of consumers, depositors, borrowers, the federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of shareholders. Applicable laws and regulations restrict permissible activities and investments, and require actions to protect loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary and other customers, as well as the federal Deposit Insurance Fund. They also may restrict Peoples' ability to repurchase its common shares or to receive dividends from Peoples Bank, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The following is a summary of the regulatory agencies, statutes and related regulations that have, or could have, a material impact on Peoples' business. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to such regulations and statutes. 

Financial Holding Company 

Peoples is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. As a financial holding company, Peoples is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). 

The Federal Reserve Board has extensive enforcement authority over financial holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve Board may initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The Federal Reserve Board may assess civil money penalties, issue cease and desist or removal orders, and require that a financial holding company divest subsidiaries, including subsidiary banks. Peoples is required to file reports and other information with the Federal Reserve Board regarding its business operations and those of its subsidiaries. 

&#32;9 

Subsidiary Bank 

Effective December 30, 2015, Peoples Bank converted from a national banking association into an Ohio state-chartered bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Peoples Bank had no disputes with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") in relation to the conversion of Peoples Bank to a state-chartered bank. Peoples Bank is now primarily supervised by the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions ("ODFI") and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Peoples Bank is also subject to regulations of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;), which regulates consumer financial products and services and certain financial services providers. 

Various requirements and restrictions under the laws of the United States and the states of Ohio, West Virginia and Kentucky affect the operations of Peoples Bank, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the nature and amount of loans that may be made and the interest that may be charged thereon, restrictions relating to investments and other activities, limitations on credit exposure to correspondent banks, limitations on activities based on capital and surplus, limitations on transactions between Peoples Bank and Peoples, limitations on the payment of dividends, and limitations on branching. Consumer laws and regulations designed to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, and to ensure that consumers have access to fair, transparent and competitive markets for consumer financial products and services, affect the services provided to Peoples Bank customers. 

Peoples' banking subsidiary will see a reduction in the annual cost associated with regulatory examination fees commencing in 2016, as a result of the change from a national banking association to an Ohio state-charted bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 

Non-Banking Subsidiaries 

Peoples' non-banking subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other applicable federal and state agencies. Peoples Insurance, as a licensed insurance agency, is subject to regulation by the Ohio Department of Insurance and the state insurance regulatory agencies of those states where it may conduct business. 

Other Regulatory Agencies 

Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ"). &#32;&#32;Peoples is also under the jurisdiction of the SEC and certain state securities commissions for matters relating to the offering and sale of its securities. Peoples is subject to the registration, disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as administered by the SEC. Peoples' common shares are listed with NASDAQ under the symbol "PEBO" and Peoples is subject to the rules for NASDAQ listed companies. 

Federal Home Loan Bank. &#32;&#32;Peoples Bank is a member of the FHLB, which provides credit to its members in the form of advances. As a member of the FHLB, Peoples Bank must maintain an investment in the capital stock of the FHLB in a specified amount. Upon the origination or renewal of an advance, the FHLB is required by law to obtain and maintain a security interest in certain types of collateral. The FHLB is required to establish standards of community investment or service that its members must maintain for continued access to long-term advances from the FHLB. The standards take into account a member's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the "CRA") and its record of lending to first-time homebuyers. 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). &#32;&#32;The FDIC is an independent federal agency which insures the deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally-insured banks and savings associations, and safeguards the safety and soundness of the financial institution industry. Peoples Bank's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and Peoples Bank is subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. 

Insurance premiums for each insured depository institution are determined based upon the institution's capital level and supervisory rating provided to the FDIC by the institution's primary federal regulator and other information the FDIC determines to be relevant to the risk posed to the Deposit Insurance Fund by the institution. The assessment rate determined by considering such information is then applied to the amount of the institution's average assets minus average tangible equity to determine the institution's insurance premium. An increase in the assessment rate could have a material adverse effect on the earnings of the affected institution, depending on the amount of the increase. 

The FDIC has proposed changing the deposit insurance premium assessment method for banks with less than $10 billion in assets that have been insured by the FDIC for at least five years. The proposed changes would revise the financial ratios method so that it would be based on a statistical model estimating the probability of failure of a bank over three years; update the financial measures used in the financial ratios 

&#32;10 

method consistent with the statistical model; eliminate risk categories for established small banks; and use the financial ratios method to determine assessment rates for all such banks (subject to minimum or maximum initial assessment rates based upon a bank&#8217;s composite examination rating). 

The FDIC may terminate insurance coverage upon a finding that an insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's regulatory agency. 

Dodd-Frank Act 

Federal regulators continue to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). The Dodd-Frank Act created many new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions, including depository institutions. Currently, federal regulators are still in the process of drafting the implementing regulations for some portions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Peoples is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with these regulatory requirements. The following discussion summarizes significant aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that are already affecting or may affect Peoples and Peoples Bank: 

&#8226; 

the CFPB has been established and empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws; 

&#8226; 

the deposit insurance assessment base for federal deposit insurance has been expanded from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity; 

&#8226; 

the prohibition on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposits has been repealed; 

&#8226; 

the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer has been permanently increased to $250,000; 

&#8226; 

new corporate governance requirements require new compensation practices, including, but not limited to, providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, requiring compensation committees to consider the independence of compensation advisors and meeting new executive compensation disclosure requirements; 

&#8226; 

the Federal Reserve Board has established rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion. Although the cap is not applicable to Peoples Bank, it may have an adverse effect on Peoples Bank as the debit cards issued by Peoples Bank and other smaller banks, which have higher interchange fees, may become less competitive; 

&#8226; 

new capital regulations have been adopted as discussed below in the section captioned "Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action"; 

&#8226; 

"ability to repay" regulations generally require creditors to make a reasonable, good faith determination (considering at least 8 specified underwriting factors) of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling (excluding an open-end credit plan, timeshare plan, reverse mortgage or temporary loan) and provides a presumption that the creditor making a "qualified mortgage" satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements; and 

&#8226; 

the authority of the Federal Reserve Board to examine financial holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries was expanded. 

Some aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are still subject to rulemaking and will take effect in the coming years, making it difficult to anticipate the full financial impact on Peoples, its subsidiaries, their respective customers or the financial services industry more generally. However, the implementation of certain provisions have already increased compliance costs and the implementation of future provisions will most likely further increase both compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possibly restricting the operations of Peoples and its subsidiaries. 

Bank Holding Company Act 

In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. As a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 - also known as the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 - which amended the BHC Act, bank holding companies that are financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or (2) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk 

&#32;11 

to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments. In 2002, Peoples elected, and received approval from the Federal Reserve Board, to become a financial holding company. 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, or to acquire a company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA, which is more fully discussed in the section captioned "Community Reinvestment Act" included later in this item. In addition, financial holding companies, like Peoples, are permitted to acquire companies engaged in activities that are financial in nature and in activities that are incidental and complementary to financial activities without prior Federal Reserve Board approval. 

The BHC Act and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its parent holding company. Under the federal Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for a state-chartered, Federal Reserve Bank member bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant's performance record under the CRA and fair housing laws, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. 

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a financial holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. Under this policy, the Federal Reserve Board may require a financial holding company to contribute additional capital to an undercapitalized subsidiary bank and may disapprove of the payment of dividends to the shareholders if the Federal Reserve Board believes the payment of such dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Transactions with Affiliates, Directors, Executive Officers and Shareholders 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation W generally: 

&#8226; 

limit the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in "covered transactions" with any one affiliate; 

&#8226; 

limit the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in "covered transactions" with all affiliates; and 

&#8226; 

require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank or subsidiary, as those provided to a non-affiliate. 

An affiliate of a bank is any company or entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the bank. The term "covered transaction" includes the making of loans to the affiliate, the purchase of assets from the affiliate, the issuance of a guarantee on behalf of the affiliate, the purchase of securities issued by the affiliate and other similar types of transactions. 

A bank's authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and greater than 10% shareholders, as well as entities under such persons control, is subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O promulgated under that act by the Federal Reserve Board. Among other things, these loans must be made on terms (including interest rates charged and collateral required) substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals, or be made as part of a benefit or compensation program and on terms widely available to employees, and must not involve a greater than normal risk of repayment. In addition, the amount of loans a bank may make to these persons is based, in part, on the bank's capital position, and specified approval procedures must be followed in making loans which exceed specified amounts. 

Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action &#32; 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions and requires the respective federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. The federal regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, have adopted substantially similar regulatory capital guidelines and regulations consistent with the requirements of FDICIA, as well as established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve certain problems of undercapitalized institutions. This system is based on five capital level categories for insured depository institutions: "well capitalized"; "adequately capitalized"; "undercapitalized"; "significantly undercapitalized", and "critically undercapitalized". 

&#32;12 

The federal banking agencies may (or in some cases must) take certain supervisory actions depending upon a bank's capital level. For example, the banking agencies must appoint a receiver or conservator for a bank within 90 days after the bank becomes "critically undercapitalized" unless the bank's primary regulator determines, with the concurrence of the FDIC, that other action would better achieve regulatory purposes. Banking operations otherwise may be significantly affected depending on a bank's capital category. For example, a bank that is not "well capitalized" generally is prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market, and the holding company of any undercapitalized bank must guarantee, in part, specific aspects of the bank's capital plan for the plan to be acceptable. 

The Federal Reserve Board has adopted risk-based capital guidelines for financial holding companies and other bank holding companies, as well as state member banks. The OCC and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for banks. The guidelines provide a systematic analytical framework which makes regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations, takes off-balance sheet exposures expressly into account in evaluating capital adequacy, and minimizes disincentives to holding liquid, low-risk assets. Capital levels, as measured by these standards, are also used to categorize financial institutions for purposes of certain prompt corrective action regulatory provisions. 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the guidelines included a minimum for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%, with at least half of the ratio composed of common shareholders&#8217; equity, minority interests in certain equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries and a limited amount of qualifying preferred stock and qualified trust preferred securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (known as &#8220;tier 1&#8221; risk-based capital). The guidelines also provided for a minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to average assets, or &#8220;leverage ratio,&#8221; of 3% for financial holding companies and bank holding companies that met certain criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating, and 4% for all other financial holding companies and bank holding companies. 

The risk-based capital guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies are based on the &#8220;International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standard&#8221; (Basel I), published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;) in 1988. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new capital adequacy framework (Basel II) for large, internationally active banking organizations, and in December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee issued an update to Basel II (&#8220;Basel III&#8221;). The Basel Committee frameworks did not become applicable to banks supervised in the U.S. until adopted into U.S. law or regulations. Although the U.S. banking regulators imposed some of the Basel II and Basel III rules on banks with $250 billion or more in assets or $10 billion of on-balance sheet foreign exposure, it was not until July 2013 that the U.S. banking regulators issued final (or, in the case of the FDIC, interim final) new capital rules applicable to smaller banking organizations which also implement certain of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the &#8220;Basel III Capital Rules&#8221;). Community banking organizations, including Peoples and Peoples Bank, began transitioning to the new rules on January 1, 2015. The new minimum capital requirements became effective on January 1, 2015; whereas, a new capital conservation buffer and deductions from common equity capital phase in from January 1, 2016 through January 1, 2019, and most deductions from common equity tier 1 capital will phase in from January 1, 2015 through January 1, 2019. 

The new rules include (a) a new common equity tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4.5%, (b) a tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%, rather than the former 4.0%, (c) a minimum total capital ratio that remains at 8.0%, and (d) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%. 

Common equity for the common equity tier 1 capital ratio includes common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, plus limited amounts of minority interests in the form of common stock, less the majority of certain regulatory deductions. 

Tier 1 capital includes common equity as defined for the common equity tier 1 capital ratio, plus certain non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, cumulative preferred stock and related surplus and trust preferred securities that have been grandfathered (but which are not permitted going forward), and limited amounts of minority interests in the form of additional tier 1 capital instruments, less certain deductions. 

Tier 2 capital, which can be included in the total capital ratio, includes certain capital instruments (such as subordinated debt) and limited amounts of the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to new eligibility criteria, less applicable deductions. 

The deductions from common equity tier 1 capital include goodwill and other intangibles, certain deferred tax assets, mortgage-servicing assets above certain levels, gains on sale in connection with a securitization, investments in a banking organization&#8217;s own capital instruments and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (above certain levels). The deductions phased in beginning in 2015 and will continue through 2019. 

&#32;13 

Under the guidelines, capital is compared to the relative risk related to the balance sheet. To derive the risk included in the balance sheet, one of several risk weights is applied to different balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets, primarily based on the relative credit risk of the counterparty. The capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. 

The new rules also place restrictions on the payment of capital distributions, including dividends, and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the company does not hold a capital conservation buffer of greater than 2.5 percent composed of common equity tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements, or if its eligible retained income is negative in that quarter and its capital conservation buffer ratio was less than 2.5 percent at the beginning of the quarter. The capital conservation buffer phased in starting January 1, 2016, at .625%. 

The implementation of the portion of Basel III that has been phased in as of the date of this Form 10-K did not have a material impact on Peoples&#8217; or Peoples Bank&#8217;s capital ratios. Further, the implementation of Basel III, once fully phased in, is not expected to have a material impact on Peoples&#8217; or Peoples Bank&#8217;s capital ratios. 

In order to be "well capitalized", a bank must have a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0%, a total risk-based capital of at least 10.0%, and a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, and the bank must not be subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measures. Peoples' management believes that Peoples and Peoples Bank meet the ratio requirements to be deemed "well capitalized" according to the guidelines described above. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practice. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit or other financial assistance to low and moderate-income individuals and communities. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the CRA and are assigned ratings. As of December 31, 2015 , the most recent performance evaluation by the OCC (which was Peoples Bank's primary federal banking regulator at the time of the examination) of Peoples Bank resulted in an overall rating of "Satisfactory". 

Dividend Restrictions 

Current federal banking regulations impose restrictions on Peoples Bank's ability to pay dividends to Peoples. These restrictions include a limit on the amount of dividends that may be paid in a given year without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and a prohibition on paying dividends that would cause Peoples Bank's total capital to be less than the required minimum levels under the capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Ohio law also limits the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year without prior approval of the Ohio Superintendent of Financial Institutions. Peoples Bank's regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends at any time if the regulators determine the dividends represent unsafe and/or unsound banking practices, or reduce Peoples Bank's total capital below adequate levels. For further discussion regarding regulatory restrictions on dividends, refer to Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Peoples' ability to pay dividends to its shareholders may also be restricted. Current Federal Reserve Board policy requires a financial holding company to act as a source of financial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries. Under this policy, the Federal Reserve Board may require Peoples to commit resources or contribute additional capital to Peoples Bank, which could restrict the amount of cash available for dividends. 

The Federal Reserve Board has also issued a policy statement with regard to the payment of cash dividends by financial holding companies and other bank holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a financial holding company or bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the financial holding company's or bank holding company's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Accordingly, a financial holding company or bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or can only be funded in ways that weaken the financial holding company's or bank holding company's financial health, such as by borrowing. 

Peoples also has entered into certain agreements that place restrictions on dividends. Specifically, Peoples Bank is prohibited from paying dividends in an amount greater than permitted by law without requiring prior Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory approval. In addition, if Peoples were to elect to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities held by the Statutory Trust or an event of default were to occur under the indenture governing those junior subordinated debt securities, Peoples would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends 

&#32;14 

on Peoples' common shares. Even when the legal ability exists, Peoples or Peoples Bank may decide to limit the payment of dividends in order to retain earnings for corporate use. 

Customer Privacy and Other Consumer Protections 

Peoples Bank is subject to regulations limiting the ability of financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated party. Peoples Bank is also subject to numerous federal and state laws aimed at protecting consumers, including the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Community Reinvestment Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 

USA Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "USA Patriot Act") and related regulations, among other things, require financial institutions to establish programs specifying procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers seeking to establish new accounts and establishing enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report suspicious activity. Peoples Bank has established policies and procedures that Peoples believes comply with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act. 

Monetary Policy 

The Federal Reserve Board regulates money, credit conditions and interest rates in order to influence general economic conditions primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank borrowings, and changes in the reserve requirements against depository institutions' deposits. These policies and regulations significantly affect the overall growth and distribution of loans, investments and deposits, as well as interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. 

The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to continue to have significant effects in the future. In light of the changing conditions in the economy, the money markets and the activities of monetary and fiscal authorities, Peoples can make no definitive predictions as to future changes in interest rates, credit availability or deposit levels. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC issued joint interagency guidance on incentive compensation policies (the "Joint Guidance") intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. This principles-based guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization's incentive compensation arrangements should: (1) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization's ability to effectively identify and manage risks; (2) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management; and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization's board of directors. 

Pursuant to the Joint Guidance, the Federal Reserve Board will review, as part of a regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions such as Peoples and Peoples Bank. Such reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization's activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination and deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution's supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution's ability to complete acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against an institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization's safety and soundness, and prompt and effective measures are not being taken to correct the deficiencies. 

On February 7, 2011, federal banking regulatory agencies jointly issued proposed rules on incentive-based compensation arrangements under applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Proposed Joint Rules"). The Proposed Joint Rules generally apply to financial institutions with $1.0 billion or more in assets that maintain incentive-based compensation arrangements for certain covered employees. The Proposed Joint Rules: (1) prohibit covered financial institutions from maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage covered persons to expose the institution to inappropriate risk by providing the covered person with "excessive" compensation; (2) prohibit covered financial institutions from establishing or maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that encourage inappropriate risks that could lead to a material financial loss; (3) require covered financial 

&#32;15 

institutions to maintain policies and procedures appropriate to their size, complexity and use of incentive-based compensation to help ensure compliance with the Proposed Joint Rules; and (4) require covered financial institutions to provide enhanced disclosure to regulators regarding their incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons within 90 days following the end of the fiscal year. 

Pursuant to rules adopted by the stock exchanges and approved by the SEC in January 2013 under the Dodd-Frank Act, public company compensation committee members must meet heightened independence requirements and consider the independence of compensation consultants, legal counsel and other advisors to the compensation committee. A compensation committee must have the authority to hire advisors and to have the public company fund reasonable compensation of such advisors. 

Public companies will be required, once stock exchanges impose additional listing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, to implement "clawback" procedures for incentive compensation payments and to disclose the details of the procedures which allow recovery of incentive compensation that was paid on the basis of erroneous financial information necessitating a restatement due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements. This clawback policy is intended to apply to compensation paid within a three-year look-back window of the restatement and would cover all executives who received incentive awards. 

Effect of Environmental Regulation 

&#32;Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of Peoples and its subsidiaries. Peoples believes the nature of the operations of its subsidiaries has little, if any, environmental impact. Peoples, therefore, anticipates no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for its current fiscal year or for the foreseeable future. 

Peoples believes its primary exposure to environmental risk is through the lending activities of Peoples Bank. In cases where management believes environmental risk potentially exists, Peoples Bank mitigates its environmental risk exposures by requiring environmental site assessments at the time of loan origination to confirm collateral quality as to commercial real estate parcels posing higher than normal potential for environmental impact, as determined by reference to present and past uses of the subject property and adjacent sites. In addition, environmental assessments are typically required prior to any foreclosure activity involving non-residential real estate collateral. 

Future Legislation 

&#32;Various and significant legislation affecting financial institutions and the financial industry is from time to time introduced by the U.S. Congress, as evidenced by the sweeping reforms in the Dodd-Frank Act adopted in 2010. Such legislation may continue to change banking statutes and the operating environment of Peoples and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could significantly increase or decrease costs of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among financial institutions. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the continuing implementation of final rules and regulations thereunder, the nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions remains very unpredictable. 

Website Access to Peoples' SEC Filings 

Peoples maintains an Internet website at www.peoplesbancorp.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate Peoples' Internet website into this Form 10-K). Peoples makes available free of charge on or through its website, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as Peoples' definitive proxy statement filed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after Peoples electronically files each such report or amendment with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. 

