 Item 1. Business. 

When used in this report, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;PepsiCo&#8221; and the &#8220;Company&#8221; mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. Certain terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are defined in the Glossary included in Item 7. of this report. 

Company Overview 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. We are a leading global food and beverage company with a complementary portfolio of enjoyable brands, including Frito-Lay, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Quaker and Tropicana. Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, distribute and sell a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable beverages, foods and snacks, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. 

Our Operations 

We are organized into six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows: 

1) 

Frito-Lay North America (FLNA); 

2) 

Quaker Foods North America (QFNA); 

3) 

North America Beverages (NAB); 

4) 

Latin America, which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in Latin America; 

5) 

Europe Sub-Saharan Africa (ESSA), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa; and 

6) 

Asia, Middle East and North Africa (AMENA), which includes all of our beverage, food and snack businesses in Asia, Middle East and North Africa. 

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. North America includes the United States and Canada. See also &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our operations, including outside the United States. 

Frito-Lay North America 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, FLNA makes, markets, distributes and sells branded snack foods. These foods include Lay&#8217;s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese-flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips and Santitas tortilla chips. FLNA&#8217;s branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA&#8217;s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, distributes and sells Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. FLNA&#8217;s net revenue was $14.8 billion , $14.5 billion &#32;and $14.1 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 23% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2015 , 22% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2014 &#32;and 21% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2013 . 

Quaker Foods North America 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, QFNA makes, markets, distributes and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA&#8217;s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Cap&#8217;n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni side dishes, Quaker rice cakes, Quaker natural granola and Quaker oat squares. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. &#32; QFNA&#8217;s net revenue was $2.5 billion &#32;in 2015 and $2.6 billion in both 2014 &#32;and 2013 , and approximated 4% &#32;of our total net revenue in each of 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

North America Beverages 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, NAB makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Gatorade, Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Aquafina, Diet Mountain Dew, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist and Mug. NAB also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks, respectively. Further, NAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from Dole Food Company, Inc. (Dole) and Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. (Ocean Spray). NAB operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. NAB also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn sell our branded finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. NAB&#8217;s net revenue was $20.6 billion , $20.2 billion &#32;and $20.1 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 33% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2015 &#32;and 30% &#32;of our total net revenue in both 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

Latin America 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, Latin America makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of snack food brands including Doritos, Cheetos, Marias Gamesa, Ruffles, Emperador, Saladitas, Sabritas, Lay&#8217;s, Rosquinhas Mabel and Tostitos, as well as many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks. Latin America also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, 7UP, Gatorade, Mirinda, Diet 7UP, Manzanita Sol and Diet Pepsi. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. Latin America also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). Latin America&#8217;s net revenue was $8.2 billion , $9.4 

billion &#32;and $9.3 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 13% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2015 &#32;and 14% &#32;of our total net revenue in both 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, which was effective as of the end of the third quarter of 2015. 

Europe Sub-Saharan Africa 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, ESSA makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including Lay&#8217;s, Walkers, Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. ESSA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, 7UP, Pepsi Max, Mirinda, Diet Pepsi and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, ESSA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. ESSA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In addition, ESSA makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including Chudo, Agusha and Domik v Derevne. ESSA&#8217;s net revenue was $10.5 billion , $13.4 billion &#32;and $13.8 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 17% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2015 , 20% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2014 &#32;and 21% &#32;of our total net revenue in 2013 . 

Asia, Middle East and North Africa 

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMENA makes, markets, distributes and sells a number of leading snack food brands including Lay&#8217;s, Kurkure, Chipsy, Doritos, Cheetos and Crunchy through consolidated businesses, as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMENA makes, markets, distributes and sells many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks. AMENA also makes, markets, distributes and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP, Mountain Dew, Aquafina and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, AMENA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. AMENA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, distributes and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). Further, we license the Tropicana brand for use in China on co-branded juice products in connection with a strategic alliance with Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. (Tingyi). AMENA&#8217;s net revenue was $6.4 billion , $6.6 billion &#32;and $6.4 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and approximated 10% &#32;of our total net revenue in each of 2015, 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

Our Distribution Network 

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and distributor networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. 

Direct-Store-Delivery 

We, our independent bottlers and our distributors operate DSD systems that deliver beverages, foods and snacks directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our independent bottlers. DSD enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. DSD is especially well-suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in-store promotion and merchandising. 

Customer Warehouse 

Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, and have lower turnover. 

Distributor Networks 

We distribute many of our products through third-party distributors. Third-party distributors are particularly effective when greater distribution reach can be achieved by including a wide range of products on the delivery vehicles. For example, our foodservice and vending business distributes beverages, foods and snacks to restaurants, businesses, schools and stadiums through third-party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. 

Ingredients and Other Supplies 

The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and the vehicles delivering our products. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages that would prevent us from meeting our requirements. Many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivative instruments, including swaps and futures. In addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. In addition, we continue to make investments to improve the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain, including by developing our initiative to advance sustainable farming practices by our suppliers and expanding it globally. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. 

Our Brands and Intellectual Property Rights 

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Agusha, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash, Aunt Jemima, Cap&#8217;n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester&#8217;s, Chipsy, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Crunchy, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Diet Sierra Mist, Domik v Derevne, Doritos, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, G Series, G2, Gatorade, Grandma&#8217;s, Imunele, Izze, Kas, Kurkure, Lay&#8217;s, Life, Lifewater, Lubimy, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie&#8217;s, Mother&#8217;s, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew Code Red, Mountain Dew Kickstart, Mug, Munchies, Naked, Near East, O.N.E., Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Next, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Rosquinhas Mabel, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, Saladitas, Sandora, Santitas, 7UP (outside the United States) and 7UP Free (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith&#8217;s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, SoBe V Water, Sonric&#8217;s, Stacy&#8217;s, Sting, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Farmstand, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including Dole and Ocean Spray. We also distribute Rockstar Energy drinks, Muscle Milk protein shakes and various DPSG brands, including Dr Pepper in certain markets, Crush and Schweppes. Joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, 

Sabra and Starbucks. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail, which enhances brand awareness. 

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to certain of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others. 

Seasonality 

Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. For instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. 

Our Customers 

Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. We also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas. 

We rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products to the consumer. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume-based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our independent bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting independent bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point-of-purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. 

Changes to the retail landscape, including increased consolidation of retail ownership, and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2015 , sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam&#8217;s Club (Sam&#8217;s), represented approximately 13% &#32;of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 32% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;net revenue in North America, with Wal-Mart (including Sam&#8217;s) representing approximately 18% . These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers, which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. 

See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers. 

Our Competition 

Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other competitors. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, DPSG, Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondel&#275;z International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestl&#233; S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder&#8217;s-Lance, Inc. 

Many of our food and snack products hold significant leadership positions in the food and snack industry in the United States and worldwide. In 2015, we and The Coca-Cola Company represented approximately 24% and 20%, respectively, of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage category by estimated retail sales in measured channels, according to Information Resources, Inc. However, The Coca-Cola Company has significant carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in many markets outside the United States. 

Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, effective introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment and brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively. 

Research and Development 

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth and to drive innovation globally. These activities principally involve: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation and improvement in the quality and appeal of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; development of, and improvements in, dispensing equipment, packaging technology, package design and portion sizes; and efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform, grow and broaden our product portfolio, including by developing products with improved nutrition profiles that reduce sodium, saturated fat or added sugars, including through the use of sweetener alternatives and flavor modifiers and innovation in existing sweeteners, and by offering more options with whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Our research centers are located around the world, including in Brazil, China, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States, and leverage nutrition science, food science, engineering and consumer insights to meet our strategy to continue to develop nutritious, convenient beverages, foods and snacks. 

In 2015 , we continued to refine our beverage, food and snack portfolio to meet changing consumer demands by developing a broader portfolio of product choices, including: launching beverage options that contain no high fructose corn syrup and are made with natural flavors; building on our important nutrition platforms and brands &#8211; Quaker (grains), Tropicana (fruits and vegetables), Gatorade (sports nutrition for athletes) and Naked Juice (juices and smoothies); expanding our whole grain products globally; and expanding our portfolio of nutritious products in growing categories, such as dairy, hummus and other refrigerated dips, and baked grain snacks. We also continued to develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products. In addition, we continued to make investments to reduce our impact on the environment, including: efforts to conserve raw materials and energy, such as by working to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across our global businesses, by helping to protect and conserve &#32; 

global water supplies especially in water-stressed areas (including conserving water within our operations and promoting the reduction of water use in our agricultural supply chain), and by incorporating into our operations improvements in the sustainability and resources of our agricultural supply chain; efforts to reduce waste generated by our operations and disposed of in landfills; efforts to recycle containers; efforts to use renewable resources; and efforts to optimize package technology and design to make our packaging increasingly sustainable with lower environmental impact. 

Research and development costs were $ 754 million , $718 million &#32;and $ 665 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. Consumer research is excluded from such research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. 

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance 

The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality and safety of our products, occupational health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. 

We are required to comply with a variety of U.S. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as Proposition 65 in California, which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. 

We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the United States, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, occupational health and safety, competition, anti-corruption and data privacy. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses. 

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, taxes, labeling requirements or other limitations on, or regulations pertaining to, the sale of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, including certain of our products that contain added sugars, sodium or saturated fat, exceed a specified caloric content, or include specified ingredients such as caffeine. For example, taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages were imposed in Mexico and Berkeley, California; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is considering requiring nutrition labels to include information about added sugars; and Brazil and Vermont have enacted legislation requiring labeling of products that contain genetically modified 

ingredients. In addition, a number of other jurisdictions in the United States and outside the United States are considering similar measures. Regulators may also restrict the use of benefit programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, to purchase certain beverages and foods. In addition, legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain other countries where our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. In addition, as our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold in more than 200 countries and territories, we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Economic and political conditions may result in changes in tax rates, and existing laws on how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings are subject to changes in interpretation and enforcement, which could affect our financial performance. The cost of compliance with such U.S. and foreign laws has not had a material financial impact on our consolidated results of operations. 

We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. In the United States, our facilities must comply with the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities and our facilities outside the United States must comply with similar laws and regulations. Our policy is to abide by all applicable environmental compliance requirements, and we have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental compliance. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. While these expenditures have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, changes in environmental compliance requirements, and any expenditures necessary to comply with such requirements, could affect our financial performance. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. While these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

In addition to the discussion in this section, see under &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; below &#8220;Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.&#8221;, &#8220;Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.&#8221;, &#8220;Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold&#8221; and &#8220;Climate change or water scarcity, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity, may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation.&#8221; 

The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to Iran by PepsiCo or its affiliates that occurred during our 2015 &#32;fiscal year. As previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in Iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in Iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable U.S. sanctions laws. The office ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of ITRA. During our 2015 fiscal year, our foreign subsidiary received a license 

from the U.S. Treasury Department&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing it to engage in activities related to the winding down of the office in Iran and completed the process of winding down its office. The foreign subsidiary did not engage in any activities in Iran other than wind-down activities in 2015 , or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in Iran during 2015 . 

Employees 

As of December 26, 2015 , we and our consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 263,000 &#32;people worldwide, including approximately 110,000 &#32;people within the United States. In certain countries, our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. &#32; We believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 

Available Information 

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are also available free of charge on our Internet site at http://www.pepsico.com &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Investors should note that we currently announce material information to our investors and others using filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls or webcasts. In addition, we have used, and intend to continue to use, these channels or our corporate website ( www.pepsico.com ) to communicate important information, including news and announcements regarding our financial performance, key personnel, our brands and our business strategy. Information that we post on our corporate website could be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, our customers, consumers, business partners and others interested in us to review the information we post on our corporate website from time to time. We may from time to time update the list of channels we will use to communicate information that could be deemed material and will post information about any such change on www.pepsico.com . The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

