 Item 1. 

Business 

At present rates of global industrialization and population growth, food and energy supplies and environmental and healthcare resources are becoming more scarce and/or costly. We believe it is not a viable option for mankind to continue on this path &#8212; new solutions will be necessary to preserve and globally expand a high quality of life. We believe that synthetic biology is a solution. 

We believe we are a leader in the field of synthetic biology, an emerging and rapidly evolving discipline that applies engineering principles to biological systems to enable rational, design-based control of cellular function for a specific purpose. Using our suite of proprietary and complementary technologies, we design, build and regulate gene programs, which are DNA sequences that consist of key genetic components. A single gene program or a complex, multi-genic program is fabricated and stored within a DNA vector. Vectors are segments of DNA used as a vehicle to transmit genetic information. DNA vectors can, in turn, be introduced into cells in order to generate a simple or complex cellular system, which are the basic and complex cellular activities that take place within a cell and the interaction of those systems in the greater cellular environment. It is these genetically modified cell systems that can be used to produce biological effector molecules, or be employed directly to enable the development of new and improved products and manufacturing processes across a variety of end markets, including health, food, energy, environment and consumer. Our synthetic biology capabilities include the ability to precisely control the amount, location and modification of biological molecules to control the function and output of living cells and optimize for desired results at an industrial scale. 

Working with our collaborators, we seek to create more effective, less costly and more sustainable solutions than can be provided through current industry practices. We believe our approach to synthetic biology can enable new and improved biotherapeutics, increase the productivity and quality of food crops and livestock, create sustainable alternative energy sources and chemical feed stocks, utilize biologically-based applications for the delivery of innovative consumer products and provide for a diverse set of environmental solutions. Our business model is to commercialize our technologies through exclusive channel collaborations, or ECCs, with collaborators that have industry expertise, development resources and sales and marketing capabilities to bring new and improved products and processes to market. 

Our technologies combine the principles of precision engineering, statistical modeling, automation and production at an industrial scale. We efficiently engineer precise and complex gene programs across many cell types. We apply the engineering principle of a design-build-test-learn &#32;continuum, through which we accumulate knowledge about the characteristics and performance of gene programs and cell lines. This process of continuous learning allows us to enhance our ability to design and build improved and more complex gene programs and cellular systems. 

While the field of synthetic biology is still emerging, the addressable markets that may benefit from this approach are large and well-established. In health, synthetic biology may provide new approaches to treating diseases, as well as improvements to the manufacture of existing products. It is estimated that the global human pharmaceuticals market is over $900 billion and that biological therapeutics represent approximately $150 billion of this market. While genetically modified salmon or trout may be considered new products, the global market for aquaculture is valued at approximately $144 billion. Genetically modified agricultural plants are already grown on more than 180 million hectares around the world and are worth an estimated $15 billion. In energy, we are working to create novel, highly engineered organisms that use specific feedstocks to create commercially valuable end products, such as isobutanol, which already has a variety of technical and industrial applications and is also being investigated as a gasoline alternative. 

We believe our technologies are broadly applicable across many diverse end markets, including some end markets that have failed to recognize the applicability of synthetic biology or failed to efficiently utilize biologically based processes to produce products. Our business model entails the formation of ECCs with collaborators that have expertise within specific industry sectors. In our ECCs, we provide expertise in the engineering, fabrication and modification of gene programs and cellular systems, and our collaborators are responsible for providing commercial market and product development expertise, as well as sales and marketing capabilities. Generally, our collaborators compensate us through technology access fees, royalties, milestones and reimbursements of certain costs. This business model allows us to leverage our capabilities and capital across a 

broader landscape of product opportunities and end markets than we would be capable of addressing on our own. Alternatively, we may execute a research collaboration to develop an early-stage program pursuant to which we receive reimbursement for our development costs but the grant of exclusive commercial rights, and payment of the related access fee, are deferred until completion of an initial research program. 

In certain strategic circumstances, we may enter into a joint venture with a third party collaborator whereby we may contribute access to our technology, cash or both into the joint venture which we will jointly control with our ECC collaborator. We may be required to contribute additional capital to the joint venture, and we may be able to receive a higher financial return than we would normally receive from an ECC to the extent that we and our collaborator are successful in developing one or more products. 

What is synthetic biology? 

History 

Synthetic biology entails the application of engineering principles to biological systems for the purpose of designing and constructing new biological systems or redesigning/modifying existing biological systems. Biological systems are governed by DNA, the building blocks of gene programs, which control cellular processes by coding for the production of proteins and other molecules that have a functional purpose and by regulating the activities of these molecules. This regulation occurs via complex biochemical and cellular reactions working through intricate cell signaling pathways, and control over these molecules modifies the output of biological systems. 

In the early 1970s, scientists utilized basic tools and procedures for transferring DNA from one organism to another. Foundational tools included: gene programs contained in vectors; enzymes that could cut DNA at specific sites; and enzymes that could "glue" two complementary segments of DNA together. Developments between 1980 and the end of the 20th century advanced the field of genetic engineering, including automated DNA sequencing, DNA amplification via PCR and the creation of genetically modified organisms. However, the simplistic "cut-and-paste" nature of the available tools, and the absence of genomic sequence information, significantly restricted the scope of early synthetic biology efforts. 

More recently, synthetic biology has been enabled by the application of information technology and advanced statistical analysis, also known as bioinformatics, to genetic engineering, as well as by improvements in DNA synthesis. Synthetic biology aims to engineer gene-based programs or codes to modify cellular function to achieve a desired biological outcome. For example, applications may include the replacement of a defective protein with a functional protein to treat a broad range of human and animal disease states, or the production of multiple proteins through the regulation of several genes in a cell to produce petrochemicals. 

Our approach 

The essence of our approach is to apply synthetic biology by using an iterative process that is rapid, automated and highly reproducible, in which we: 

&#8226; 

Design &#32;genes of interest and gene programs utilizing knowledge of cellular pathways and protein function; 

&#8226; 

Build &#32;biological molecules, gene programs and their variants to optimize performance of the biological system; 

&#8226; 

Test &#32;gene programs by inserting them into cellular systems and comparing the result(s) to the intended effects; and 

&#8226; 

Learn &#32;by utilizing information gained in our iterative processes to create better gene programs and cellular systems using a more informed and efficient process to achieve improved outcomes. 

As a result of our approach, we have developed extensive knowledge about many classes of DNA components and the rules governing their expression and activity. We have also assembled an inventory of these DNA components that we can use to rationally construct unique vectors rapidly and with predictable outcomes. The knowledge embedded in our DNA database allows us to create single gene and highly complex multigenic gene programs (an individual gene program containing multiple genes). 

To support our approach, we have developed, acquired, and integrated a unique suite of technologies, and we continue to expand upon their capabilities. These technologies include: our UltraVector gene design and fabrication platform, and its associated library of modular DNA components; Cell Systems Informatics; RheoSwitch inducible gene switch; AttSite 

Recombinases; Protein Engineering; Laser-Enabled Analysis and Processing, or LEAP; and ActoBiotics platform. These technologies are complementary in nature and share the following key characteristics: 

&#8226; 

Platform neutral &#8212; outcome oriented. We can work across different cell types with the objective of achieving the intended biological outcome allowing for product development across a broad spectrum of end markets. 

&#8226; 

Knowledge driven. We use statistical modeling tools and computational analysis to continually acquire more knowledge about biological systems and their design to continually improve our ability to develop new and improved products and processes for our collaborators. 

&#8226; 

Rationally designed. Our knowledge of biological systems and components allows us to design, build and select gene programs and predict the probable outcome of these programs. 

&#8226; 

Capable of complexity. Our technologies enable the design and precise control of complex biological molecules and multigenic gene programs. 

&#8226; 

Industrial scale. We use engineering principles and automation to enable products based on synthetic biology that are commercially viable. 

Our competitive strengths 

We believe that our technologies, our ability to work across multiple host systems and our approach to synthetic biology &#8212; design-build-test-learn &#32;&#8212; give us a competitive advantage over traditional industrial processes as well as current approaches to synthetic biology. 

We believe that we have the following competitive strengths: 

We have a suite of proprietary and complementary technologies 

We have built a suite of proprietary and complementary technologies that provides us with a comprehensive ability to design, create, modify and regulate gene programs and cellular systems across multiple host systems (human, animal, insect, plant, fungi, and bacteria). By virtue of the complementary nature of our technologies, we are able to provide our collaborators with a diverse array of capabilities, representing a "one stop shop" to potentially develop and commercialize new and differentiated products enabled by synthetic biology. 

Our design-build-test-learn continuum allows us to design and build improved and more complex gene programs 

We have developed a core expertise and technologies to design , build &#32;and test &#32;complex gene programs, as well as technologies to isolate cells that best express the desired biological output. We have also developed an extensive bioinformatic software platform that combines information technology with advanced statistical analysis for DNA design and genetic engineering, enabling us to continually learn &#32;and create optimal conditions for our gene programs. Our approach allows us to build improved and more complex gene programs. 

We believe we are a leader in synthetic biology 

We believe we are the first company focused exclusively on applying synthetic biology across a broad spectrum of end markets and have been working in the field since 1998. Over the last 18 years, we have accumulated extensive knowledge and experience in the design, modification and regulation of gene programs. We believe all of these factors, coupled with our suite of proprietary and complementary technologies, provide us with a first-mover advantage in synthetic biology. 

We serve large and diverse end markets with high built-in demand 

A vast number of products consumed globally are or can be produced using biologically-based processes. Natural resources are becoming more scarce as demand exceeds supply, creating unmet needs for improvements in development and manufacturing. As a result, the need for complex biologically engineered molecules such as those enabled by our synthetic biology technologies is large and spans multiple industries, including health, food, energy, environment, and consumer. Each of these markets faces unique challenges, however all have unmet needs for improvements in product development and manufacturing that can result in savings of both cost and time as compared to traditional means of industrial design and production. Because synthetic biology has the potential to deliver against these unmet needs, we believe that significant demand already exists for 

improved products enabled by synthetic biology. Additionally, there are markets utilizing traditional industrial processes that have failed to recognize the significant improvement in performance that could be achieved using synthetic biology. 

We have a scalable ECC business model that allows us to leverage the broad potential of synthetic biology 

We believe our ECC business model is a capital efficient and rapid way for us to participate in a more diversified range of product opportunities and industrial end markets than would otherwise be possible, including health, food, energy, environment, and consumer. Our collaborators are primarily responsible for providing market and product development expertise, as well as sales and marketing capabilities. Generally, our collaborators compensate us through technology access fees, royalties, milestones and reimbursements of certain costs. Our ECC business model allows us to participate in the potential upside from products that are enabled by our technologies across an extensive range of industries, without the need for us to invest considerable resources in bringing individual programs to market. Moreover, we believe that we will increasingly engage in ECCs in new fields at an accelerating pace with well-recognized collaborators. 

We have experienced management and employees 

Our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Randal J. Kirk, and our Chief Operating Officer, Krish S. Krishnan, consists of executives with a track record of success in building and managing research and development-driven companies, including New River Pharmaceuticals Inc., which was sold in 2007 to Shire plc for $2.6 billion. Our Chief Science Officer, Thomas D. Reed, was responsible for the initial conception and creation of our UltraVector technology platform. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 312 &#32;research and development employees. 

Our suite of proprietary and complementary technologies 

We apply the potential of synthetic biology through our suite of proprietary and complementary technologies that combine the principles of precision engineering, statistical modeling, automation and production at an industrial scale. This enables us to engineer precise and complex gene programs across many cell types rapidly and inexpensively. These technologies include: our UltraVector gene design and fabrication platform, and its associated library of modular DNA components; RheoSwitch inducible gene switch; Cell Systems Informatics; AttSite Recombinases; Protein Engineering; antibody discovery; LEAP processing; and ActoBiotics platform. 

In order to create a highly functional biological system, we recognize the complexity of cellular processes and the necessity to construct an optimized gene program in conditions reflective of the natural environment to allow for the creation of the optimal biological product. This requires a rigorous understanding of cell signaling pathways as well as the interactions that influence the expression of protein. This knowledge is captured in our advanced Cell Systems Informatics, which uses statistical modeling and other analytic frameworks to determine the most efficient pathways for an intended biochemical result, and also plays a critical role in our research and development as this database of information allows us to explore new targets of potential interest to our current or future collaborators. Moreover, our bioinformatics and computational modeling platform is central to our Protein Engineering, which focuses on designing enhanced and/or novel protein functionalities, including stability, localization, and catalytic activity. 

In addition to creating optimized gene programs via the most efficient cell signaling pathways and in the relevant cellular environments, we have a growing library of genetic components with our UltraVector platform that enable design and assembly of gene programs which facilitate control over the quality, function, and performance of living cells. Our RheoSwitch inducible gene switch provides quantitative dose-proportionate regulation of the amount and timing of target protein generated, thereby providing another mechanism to closely control activity of a newly constructed gene program. Further, our AttSite Recombinases allow for stable, targeted gene integration and expression. Once cells have been engineered for the desired biological output, the LEAP automated platform can be used to identify and purify cells of interest, such as antibody expressing cells and stem cells. Furthermore, our ActoBiotics platform allows for targeted in situ &#32;expression of proteins and peptides from engineered microbes. 

Our technology platform is designed to provide a "one stop shop" for start-to-finish conceptualization, engineering, regulation, optimization and production of biologically-based solutions that we believe possess many advantages over traditional processes. Our leading-edge toolkit can empower many different cell platforms allowing for selection of the most effective host to create a desired product or solution for our partners. 

Our markets 

Synthetic biology has applicability across many diverse end markets. Our goal is to be a leader in the application of synthetic biology for products currently utilizing biologically based processes, and a leader in the replacement of conventional processes and products with biologically based substitutes. Through the application of our suite of proprietary and complementary technologies, we believe we can create optimized biological processes and create substitutes for traditional industrial techniques, leading to improved products that are developed and manufactured faster and more cost-effectively. 

Health Sector 

It is estimated that the global human pharmaceuticals market is approximately $900 billion and that biological therapeutics represent approximately $150 billion of this market. Additionally, the market for animal health therapeutics is currently estimated to be valued at more than $20 billion globally. The unreliable, costly discovery and development process for new medicines is being replaced by the engineering of biology at the genetic, molecular, and cellular level. Our ability to regulate complex gene programs and cellular systems by applying the principles of science, engineering, and computational bioinformatics with proprietary technologies is being utilized to design new therapies for humans and animals. We are applying our approach to develop targeted gene therapy applications and novel solutions within oncology, rare skin disorders, active pharmaceutical ingredients, ocular diseases, human infertility, infectious diseases, and animal health, as well as autoimmune, metabolic, and gastrointestinal disorders. 

Food Sector 

The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, predicts that by 2050 the world's population will exceed 9 billion, global demand for animal protein will more than double, food production will need to increase by 70 percent, and global consumption of dairy and beef products will increase by 158 percent above present levels of $352 billion. We are focused on enabling efficient, high-quality food production that sustainably supports the necessities of our growing population. By applying our suite of technologies, we aim to facilitate development of agricultural, livestock and aquaculture resources that deliver innovative approaches and superior production yields in an environmentally responsible manner. 

Energy Sector 

Biological approaches hold significant potential to efficiently yield energy products. Despite this, existing attempts to produce "clean" energy are incredibly expensive, not achievable at an industrial scale, or require massive resources with low productivity. Additionally many alternative energy initiatives use food sources, like corn and sugarcane, which compete for arable land and water with sustenance crops. With our unique cellular engineering capabilities, we are developing microbial cell lines for bioconversion of methane to higher carbon content compounds. This proprietary platform holds the potential to transform the gas-to-liquids industry by generating valuable fuels and chemicals at a fraction of the cost of more traditional conversion methods. Our bioconversion approach seeks to attain the optimal balance of sustainable productive yield and attractive economic returns. 

Environment Sector 

As a result of industrialization and rapidly growing global populations, chemicals, heavy metals, oil products and various other pollutants are pervasive in the environment. These pollutants result in poor quality of drinking water, loss of water supply, contaminated ground water and soil, high clean-up costs, and potential health problems. We seek to engineer biological solutions that are designed to preserve the environment and either reduce the use of resources that are being rapidly depleted, like water and wood, or in some cases to even replenish them. These biological approaches may replace products that present an environmental hazard. Examples include microbial-based strategies to pest and rodent control with minimal impact on non-target species and solutions that can enhance the healthy growth of planned forests, reducing the burden on our world's shrinking natural forests. 

Consumer Sector 

Global consulting firm A.T. Kearney estimates consumer spending will grow to $40 trillion by 2020 including an increase in spending on durable goods and personal care items. Despite its size and the number of products that can be achieved through biological means, the consumer market has experienced limited impact from synthetic biology. We are committed to partnering with diverse companies to develop bio-based processes that displace petroleum-derived ingredients and polymers. Additionally, we are focused on reducing the wasteful practices associated with extracting compounds that occur in limiting amounts in 

plants and animals. Through our synthetic biology capabilities, we plan to utilize innovative biologically based applications for the development of products, such as personal care items and decorative arts, to improve the lives of consumers every day. 

Our business model 

We believe that because synthetic biology has applicability across many diverse end markets, we cannot take full advantage of synthetic biology with internal development programs alone. To address this, we have devised our business model to allow us to focus on our core expertise in synthetic biology while bringing many different commercial products to market via collaborations in a broad range of industries or end markets, thus minimizing and leveraging the use of our own capital. 

Our business model is built primarily around the formation of ECCs. An ECC is an agreement with a collaborator to develop products based on our technologies in a specifically defined field. We seek collaborators that have expertise within a specific industry sector and the commitment to provide resources for the commercialization of products within that industry sector. In our ECCs, we provide expertise in the engineering of gene programs and cellular systems, and our collaborators are responsible for providing market and product development expertise, as well as sales and marketing capabilities. 

This business model allows us to leverage our capabilities and capital across numerous product development programs and a broader landscape of end markets than we would be capable of addressing on our own. Our ECC business model also allows us to participate in the potential upside from products that are enabled by our technologies across an extensive range of industries, without the need for us to invest considerable resources in bringing individual products to market. Additionally, the flexibility of the business model allows us to collaborate with a range of counterparts, from small innovative companies to global multinational conglomerates. 

Alternatively, we may execute a research collaboration to develop an early-stage program pursuant to which we receive reimbursement for our development costs but the exclusive commercial rights, and related access fees, are deferred until completion of an initial research program. 

In certain strategic circumstances, we may enter into a joint venture with a third party collaborator whereby we may contribute access to our technology, cash or both into the joint venture which we will jointly control with our collaborator. Pursuant to a joint venture agreement, we may be required to contribute additional capital to the joint venture, and we may be able to receive a higher financial return than we would normally receive from an ECC to the extent that we and our collaborator are successful in developing one or more products. 

As we consider the broad potential applications of our synthetic biology technologies, we have identified a number of ventures that are already enabling products that benefit from the application of such technology. We believe that the strategic acquisition of certain such companies will allow us to develop and commercialize innovative products and create significant value for Intrexon. Our business model therefore includes the acquisition of certain product-focused companies that may leverage our technologies and expertise in order to expand their respective product applications. 

As a means to further the development of our business model, in June 2015, we entered into an agreement with Harvest Intrexon Enterprise Fund I LP, or Harvest, an investment fund sponsored by Harvest Capital Strategies, LLC, and a related party based on ownership in the fund by affiliates of Third Security, LLC, or Third Security. Harvest was established to invest in life science research and development opportunities that we offer to Harvest. These will be investment proposals that are suitable for pursuit by a start-up venture, characterized by the agreement as "start-up opportunities." For such start-up opportunities, we will provide Harvest with exclusive rights of first-look and first negotiation. For any opportunities it decides to pursue, Harvest would establish new collaboration entities which would enter into an ECC with us in a designated field. The terms of such ECCs would be negotiated between us and Harvest. In addition, the agreement provides us the right to present to Harvest the opportunity to invest in other ventures, including investment opportunities with respect to our existing collaborations. Any such opportunities would be presented at our discretion on a non-exclusive basis. The agreement with Harvest does not limit our ability to execute other collaborations and joint ventures with third parties. As consideration for providing exclusive rights of first-look and first negotiation for start-up opportunities, we receive a portion of the management fee collected by the fund sponsor of Harvest. 

Our ECCs 

Our ECCs typically share a number of key features. Each ECC is an agreement with a collaborator to develop products based on our technologies in one or more specifically defined fields. These fields may be narrowly defined (representing, for example, a specific therapeutic approach for a single indication) or may be broad (representing, for example, an entire class of related products). In each case, we and the collaborator precisely define the field based on factors such as the expertise of the 

collaborator, the relative markets for the prospective products, the collaborator's resources available to commit to the ECC and our expectations as to other prospective ECCs in related areas. Regardless of the size of the field, under each ECC we grant the collaborator exclusive rights to our services and our suite of technologies to commercialize products within the field. So long as our collaboration continues, the parties agree that each will not, alone or with another party, develop and commercialize products within the field of the ECC. 

We realize four general categories of revenue under our ECCs: (i) technology access fees upon signing; (ii) reimbursements of costs incurred by us for our research and development and/or manufacturing efforts related to specific applications provided for in the collaboration; (iii) milestone payments upon the achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial activities; and (iv) royalties on sales of products arising from the collaboration. 

Pursuant to our business model, we may receive equity in lieu of cash for technology access fees and milestones and also may participate in capital raises to allow earlier-stage collaborators to focus their resources on product development. However, when such a collaborator develops greater operational or financial resources, its shares become a financial asset within Intrexon that is independent of our operational or collaborative purposes. In June 2015, we provided our shareholders the opportunity to participate directly in the value generated by our ECC with ZIOPHARM Oncology, Inc., or ZIOPHARM, by distributing all of our shares in ZIOPHARM to our shareholders as a special stock dividend. 

Generally, each of our ECCs is designed to continue in perpetuity unless terminated. Given the relatively long development cycle for many of the products that could be enabled by our technologies, as well as our belief that we can enable the continual improvement of product offerings, it is our expectation that our ECCs will continue for many years and result in the development of multiple products. Each of our collaborators, however, retains the right to terminate the ECC for any reason by providing us written notice a certain period of time prior to such termination, generally ninety days. The ECC is also terminable by either party upon the other party's breach of material provisions of the ECC. The failure of our collaborator to exercise diligent efforts to develop products within the field of the ECC constitutes such a breach. 

In the event one of our ECCs terminates, we are entitled to immediately pursue another collaboration within the field of the terminated ECC. Moreover, technologies and product candidates in a relatively early stage of development revert to us, along with data, materials and the rights to applicable regulatory filings related to the reverted products, enabling us to develop those products ourselves or incorporate them into a future collaboration. Product candidates that are at a more advanced stage of development, such as those already generating revenue or being considered for approval by the applicable regulatory body, for example, at the time of the ECC's termination are retained by the former collaborator. The collaborator has the right to commercialize such retained products although we are entitled to the royalties or other compensation to which we would be entitled as if the ECC were still in effect. Upon termination, we generally retain any technology access fees or other payments to which we are entitled through the date of termination. 

In our ECCs, we retain rights to our existing intellectual property and generally any intellectual property developed using, or otherwise incorporating, our technologies. In addition, we are generally responsible for controlling the prosecution and enforcement of this intellectual property with the exception of the enforcement of patents directed solely and specifically to products developed within the field of each ECC. 

Each of our ECCs requires the collaborator to indemnify us for all liability related to products produced pursuant to the ECC and to obtain insurance coverage related to product liability. 

See Note 5 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our significant ECCs. 

Joint ventures 

To date, all of our joint ventures, or JVs, have been formed for the purpose of entering into an ECC with us. The following represent our significant joint ventures as of December 31, 2015 . 

Intrexon Energy Partners II 

In December 2015, we and certain investors, or the IEPII Investors, entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement which governs the affairs and conduct of business of Intrexon Energy Partners II, LLC, or Intrexon Energy Partners II, a joint venture formed to utilize our natural gas bioconversion platform for the production of 1,4-butanediol, an industrial chemical intermediate used to manufacture spandex, polyurethane, plastics, and polyester. We also entered into an ECC with Intrexon Energy Partners II providing exclusive rights to our technology for use in the field, as a result of which we received a 

technology access fee of $18 million while retaining a 50 percent membership interest in Intrexon Energy Partners II. &#32; The IEPII Investors made initial capital contributions, totaling $18 million in the aggregate, in exchange for pro rata membership interests in Intrexon Energy Partners II totaling 50 percent. In December 2015, the owners of Intrexon Energy Partners II made a capital contribution of $4 million, half of which was paid by us. We committed to make additional capital contributions of up to $10 million, and the IEPII Investors, as a group and pro rata in accordance with their respective membership interests in Intrexon Energy Partners II, have committed to make additional capital contributions of up to $10 million, at the request of the Intrexon Energy Partners II's board of managers, or the Intrexon Energy Partners II Board, and subject to certain limitations. Intrexon Energy Partners II is governed by the Intrexon Energy Partners II Board which has five members. One member of the Intrexon Energy Partners II Board is designated by us and four members are designated by a majority of the IEPII Investors. We and the IEPII Investors have the right, but not the obligation, to make additional capital contributions above the initial limits when and if solicited by the Intrexon Energy Partners II Board. 

Intrexon Energy Partners 

In March 2014, we and certain investors, or the IEP Investors, entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement which governs the affairs and conduct of business of Intrexon Energy Partners, LLC, or Intrexon Energy Partners, a joint venture formed to optimize and scale-up our gas-to-liquid bioconversion platform for the production of certain fuels and lubricants. We also entered into an ECC with Intrexon Energy Partners providing exclusive rights to our technology for the use in bioconversion, as a result of which we received a technology access fee of $25 million while retaining a 50 percent membership interest in Intrexon Energy Partners. &#32; The IEP Investors made initial capital contributions, totaling $25 million in the aggregate, in exchange for pro rata membership interests in Intrexon Energy Partners totaling 50 percent. We committed to make additional capital contributions of up to $25 million, and the IEP Investors, as a group and pro rata in accordance with their respective membership interests in Intrexon Energy Partners, have committed to make additional capital contributions of up to $25 million, at the request of the Intrexon Energy Partners' board of managers, or the Intrexon Energy Partners Board, and subject to certain limitations. Intrexon Energy Partners is governed by the Intrexon Energy Partners Board which has five members. Two members of the Intrexon Energy Partners Board are designated by us and three members are designated by a majority of the IEP Investors. We and the IEP Investors have the right, but not the obligation, to make additional capital contributions above the initial limits when and if solicited by the Intrexon Energy Partners Board. 

Contemporaneously with the formation of the joint venture and entry into the ECC, we entered into securities purchase agreements with the IEP Investors for the private placement of 972,004 shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of $25 million. 

OvaXon 

In December 2013, we entered into an ECC with OvaScience, Inc., or OvaScience, a life sciences company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of new treatments for infertility. Additionally, we and OvaScience formed OvaXon, LLC, or OvaXon, a joint venture to create new applications for improving human and animal health. Both we and OvaScience made an initial capital contribution of $1.5 million in January 2014 for a 50 percent membership interest in OvaXon. OvaXon is governed by the OvaXon board of managers, or the OvaXon Board, which has four members, two each from us and OvaScience. In cases in which the OvaXon Board determines that additional capital contributions are necessary in order for OvaXon to conduct business and comply with its obligations, each of us and OvaScience have the right, but not the obligation, to make additional capital contributions to OvaXon subject to the terms of the agreement. OvaScience also licensed certain technology relating to egg precursor cells to OvaXon pursuant to a separate license agreement. 

S &#38; I Ophthalmic 

In September 2013, we entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement, or the Sun LLC Agreement, with Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories, Ltd., or Sun Pharmaceutical Subsidiary, an indirect subsidiary of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., or Sun Pharmaceutical, an international specialty pharmaceutical company focused on chronic diseases, to form S &#38; I Ophthalmic, LLC, or S &#38; I Ophthalmic. The Sun LLC Agreement governs the affairs and the conduct of business of S &#38; I Ophthalmic. S &#38; I Ophthalmic leverages experience and technology from both us and Sun Pharmaceutical. Both we and Sun Pharmaceutical Subsidiary made an initial capital contribution of $5 million in October 2013 for a 50 percent membership interest in the joint venture. S &#38; I Ophthalmic is governed by the S &#38; I Ophthalmic board of managers, or the S &#38; I Ophthalmic Board, which has four members, two each from us and Sun Pharmaceutical Subsidiary. In cases in which the S &#38; I Ophthalmic Board determines that additional capital contributions are necessary in order for the joint venture to conduct business and comply with its obligations, each of us and Sun Pharmaceutical Subsidiary have committed to making additional capital contributions to S &#38; I Ophthalmic, subject to certain limits defined in the agreement. Each has the right, but not the 

obligation, to make additional capital contributions above the defined limits when and if solicited by the S &#38; I Ophthalmic Board. 

Beginning on the seventh anniversary of the effective date of the Sun LLC Agreement, and upon the second anniversary thereafter, we, as well as Sun Pharmaceutical Subsidiary, may make a cash offer to purchase all of the other party's interest in S &#38; I Ophthalmic. Upon receipt of such an offer, the other party must either agree to tender its interests at the offered price or submit a counteroffer at a price higher than the original offer. Such offer and counteroffer may continue until one party agrees to the other's price. 

See Note 5 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of significant ECCs between us and our joint ventures. 

Primary operating subsidiaries &#32; 

Primary wholly owned operating subsidiaries 

Trans Ova Genetics, L.C. 

Trans Ova Genetics, L.C., or Trans Ova, is internationally recognized as a provider of industry-leading bovine reproductive technologies. Intrexon and Trans Ova intend to build upon Trans Ova's current platform with new capabilities with a goal of achieving higher levels of delivered value to dairy and beef cattle producers. ViaGen, L.C., or ViaGen, a wholly owned subsidiary of Trans Ova, is a provider of cloning technology for non-primate species. Exemplar Genetics, LLC, or Exemplar, a wholly owned subsidiary through the combined ownership of Trans Ova, ViaGen and us, is a company committed to enabling the study of life-threatening human diseases. 

Okanagan Specialty Fruits, Inc. 

Okanagan Specialty Fruits, Inc. and its affiliates, or Okanagan, is the pioneering agricultural company behind the world's first non-browning apple without the use of any flavor altering chemical or antioxidant additives. Okanagan is developing new commercial tree fruit varieties intended to provide benefits to the entire supply chain, from growers to consumers. 

Oxitec Limited 

Oxitec Limited, or Oxitec, is a pioneering company in biological insect control solutions. Oxitec is developing products that use genetic engineering to control insect pests that spread disease and damage crops. Using advanced genetics and molecular biology, Oxitec has developed a new and innovative solution to controlling Aedes aegypti , a mosquito that is a known vector for the transmission of infectious disease including dengue fever, chikungunya, and Zika virus. To date, Oxitec has received approvals to conduct open field trials of its self-limiting insect technologies in a number of jurisdictions and has completed trials in Brazil, Panama, the Cayman Islands and Malaysia. 

Primary majority-owned operating subsidiary 

AquaBounty Technologies, Inc. 

AquaBounty Technologies, Inc., or AquaBounty, of which we own approximately 63 percent as of December 31, 2015, is focusing on improving productivity in commercial aquaculture, including the development of the AquAdvantage&#174; Salmon, or AAS, an Atlantic salmon that has been genetically enhanced to reach market size in less time than conventionally farmed Atlantic salmon. In November 2015, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved the New Animal Drug Application for AAS. 

Mergers, acquisitions, and technology in-licensing 

We may augment our suite of proprietary technologies through mergers or acquisitions of technologies which then become available to new or existing collaborators. Among other things, these technologies are generally complementary to our existing technologies and also meet our desired return on investment and other economic criteria. In certain cases, such technologies may already be applied in the production of products or services and in these cases we may seek to expand the breadth or efficacy of such products or services through the use of our technologies. The following represent our significant mergers, acquisitions, and technology in-licensing in 2015. For a more detailed discussion of these transactions, see also "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Oxitec acquisition 

In September 2015, we acquired 100 percent of Oxitec. The aggregated consideration paid consisted of (i) 1,359,343 shares of our common stock, or the Stock Consideration, and (ii) $90.2 million in cash, or the Cash Consideration, inclusive of net cash and working capital adjustments, as defined in the agreement, totaling $9.4 million. Stock Consideration of 480,422 of the shares and Cash Consideration totaling $2.0 million were withheld as escrow at closing and are issuable and payable, respectively, eighteen months after closing, subject to reduction for satisfaction of any claims for indemnification made by us under the agreement. We began consolidating Oxitec's results of operations and financial position beginning in September 2015. 

Okanagan acquisition 

In April 2015, we acquired 100 percent of Okanagan for $10.0 million in cash and 707,853 shares of our common stock. In addition to supporting Okanagan's further development and commercialization of its apple products, we expect to utilize our proprietary technologies to assist Okanagan in the development of further novel beneficial plant traits. We began consolidating Okanagan's results of operations and financial position beginning in April 2015. 

ActoGeniX acquisition 

In February 2015, we acquired 100 percent of ActoGeniX NV, or ActoGeniX, a European biopharmaceutical company, for $32.7 million in cash and 965,377 shares of our common stock. ActoGeniX's platform technology complements our suite of proprietary technologies available for current and future collaborations. We began consolidating ActoGeniX's results of operations and financial position beginning in February 2015. 

MD Anderson Cancer Center license 

In January 2015, we and ZIOPHARM jointly entered into a license agreement with the University of Texas System Board of Regents on behalf of the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, or MD Anderson, whereby we received an exclusive license to certain research and development technologies owned and licensed by MD Anderson, including technologies relating to novel chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies, as well as co-licenses and non-exclusive licenses to certain other related technologies. ZIOPHARM also received access to these technologies pursuant to the terms of our ECC with ZIOPHARM. We issued 2,100,085 shares of our common stock valued at $59.6 million to MD Anderson as consideration. Subject to certain exceptions, the license agreement expires on the last to occur of (i) the expiration of all patents licensed thereunder, or (ii) the twentieth anniversary of the date of the license agreement. 

Exemplar acquisition 

In August 2014, we acquired 100 percent of the membership interests of Trans Ova. Trans Ova, directly and through its wholly owned subsidiary, controlled approximately 51 percent of the outstanding capital stock of Exemplar, a company committed to enabling the study of life-threatening human diseases. In February 2015, we acquired all of the minority-held equity interests of Exemplar for aggregate consideration consisting of 307,074 shares of our common stock. We began consolidating Exemplar's results of operations and financial position beginning in August 2014. 

Competition 

We believe that we are a leader in synthetic biology. We do not believe that we have any direct competitors who provide similar technologies which fully enable the commercialization of products developed using synthetic biology across a broad spectrum of biologically based industries. As a result, we believe our competition is more indirect and general in nature, and falls into three broad categories: 

&#8226; 

Synthetic biology service providers . There are companies that have competing technologies for individual pieces of our suite of complementary technologies. For example, there are companies that can synthesize DNA, and there are companies that can develop monoclonal antibodies. One portion of our proprietary technology related to DNA synthesis and assembly includes the ability to de novo &#32;synthesize DNA. We believe the following companies engage in the manufacture of DNA componentry: DNA 2.0, Inc., Blue Heron Biotech, LLC (a subsidiary of OriGene) and Life Technologies Corporation, now part of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 

&#8226; 

Industrial companies who may develop their own approach to synthetic biology . Rather than becoming a collaborator with us, potential collaborators may decide to invest time and capital to internally develop their own 

synthetic biology capabilities. For example, large biopharmaceutical companies, energy companies, and ag-bio companies may pursue a proprietary synthetic biology strategy. 

&#8226; 

Industrial companies who may develop competing products using other technologies . Products enabled by our synthetic biology will face competition in the market, including from products which have been developed using other industrial technologies. For example, large biopharmaceutical companies pursue other technologies for drug development, and large ag-bio companies pursue other technologies for the development of genetically modified crops. The rapidly evolving market for developing genetically engineered T-cells in particular, a primary focus of our collaboration with ZIOPHARM, is characterized by intense competition and rapid innovation. Genetically engineering T-cells faces significant competition in the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) technology space from multiple companies and their collaborators, such as Novartis/University of Pennsylvania, Bluebird Bio/Celgene/Baylor College of Medicine, Kite Pharma/National Cancer Institute, Juno Therapeutics/Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center/Seattle Children's Research Institute, Cellectis/Pfizer and Adaptimmune/GSK. We face competition from non-cell based treatments offered by other companies such as Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers, Incyte, Merck, and Roche. 

Intellectual property 

As we advance technologies across multiple platforms and synthetic biology areas, correspondingly, we apply a multilayered approach for protecting intellectual property relating to the inventions we have developed internally as well as those we have acquired from third parties, such as by assignment or by in-license. We seek patent protection in the United States and in other countries for our inventions and discoveries, and we develop and protect our key know-how and trade secrets relating to our platform technologies as well as to the products we are developing with our collaborators. 

We seek patent protection for our platform technologies, including but not limited to our (i) switch technology; (ii) activator ligands for our switch technology; (iii) portfolio around various genetic componentry such as vectors, cells and organisms containing these genetic componentry; and (iv) cell identification and selection platform. In addition, we seek patents covering specific collaborator's products. With respect to a particular collaborator's product, we may seek patent protection on some or all of the following aspects of the invention such as: the compound or material composition of matter and/or the method or process of making or using the composition. 

Through the use of our various platform technologies we seek to design and build proprietary compounds, vectors, methods and processes across a variety of end markets. In particular, we focus our intellectual property on synthetic biology technologies that provide platforms for the design and creation of cells, vectors and components for our collaborators. In addition, we may pursue intermediate and product-specific patents associated with our collaborators' lead programs. 

Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property relating to our technologies and products and potential products. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and in other jurisdictions globally as we deem appropriate under the circumstances, with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products and processes. For instance, where we believe appropriate, we have also filed counterpart patents and patent applications in other countries, including Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and Taiwan. In the future we may file in these or additional jurisdictions as deemed appropriate for the protection of our technologies. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned at least 55 issued U.S. patents and 55 pending U.S. patent applications relating to certain aspects of our technologies, and we have pursued counterpart patents and patent applications in other jurisdictions around the world, as we have deemed appropriate. We continue to actively develop our portfolio through the filing of new patent applications, provisional and continuations or divisionals relating to our technologies, methods and products as we and our collaborators deem appropriate. 

We have strategic positioning with respect to our key technologies including our owned patent portfolios directed to: our switch technology covering aspects of our switches and gene modulation systems, with a last to expire patent currently in 2029; our portfolio around various genetic componentry, such as vectors, cells and organisms containing these genetic componentry, and their use, with a last to expire patent in 2032; our activator ligand technology covering aspects of our activator ligands and their use, with a last to expire patent in 2034; and our cell identification and selection technology covering aspects of our cell identification and selection platform, including our cell purification, isolation, characterization and manipulation technologies, with a last to expire patent in 2031. Although we cannot be assured that these patents may not be subject to challenge in the 

future, as of this filing, there are currently no material contested proceedings and/or third party claims with respect to any of these patent portfolios. 

Additionally, we complement our intellectual property portfolio with exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses and options for licenses to third party technologies. 

A principal component of our strategy is maximizing the value of our ECCs through our intellectual property that covers our technologies, which is accentuated by intermediate and program-specific intellectual property protections. In addition to owned and in-licensed patents, we solidify our intellectual property protection through a combination of trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and security measures to protect our confidential and proprietary information related to each platform and collaborator program. We regularly assess and review the risks and benefits of protecting our developments through each aspect of intellectual property available to us. 

Because we rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to protect various aspects of our core technology, we require our employees, consultants and scientific collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with us to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. Our confidentiality agreements generally provide that the employee, consultant or scientific collaborator will not disclose our confidential information to third parties. These agreements also provide that inventions conceived by the employee, consultant or scientific collaborator in the course of working for us will be our exclusive property. Additionally, our employees agree to take certain steps to facilitate our assertion of ownership over such intellectual property. These measures may not adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If they do not adequately protect our rights, third parties could use our technologies, and we could lose any competitive advantage we may have. In addition, others may independently develop similar proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, which could impair any competitive advantage we may have. 

Regulatory environment 

Regulations affecting Intrexon 

Our ongoing research and development relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. As described below, our research operations are also subject to various environmental regulations. However, while most of the current laws and regulations concerning synthetic biology relate to the end products produced using synthetic biology, this may change. For example, in December 2010, the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues recommended that the federal government oversee, but not regulate, synthetic biology research. The Presidential Commission also recommended that the federal government lead an ongoing review of developments in the synthetic biology field and that the federal government conduct a reasonable risk assessment before the field release of synthetic organisms. 

As discussed below, the products our collaborators produce are subject to extensive regulation. Refer to "Risk factors &#8212; The markets in which our collaborators are developing products using our technologies are subject to extensive regulation, and we rely on our collaborators to comply with all applicable laws and regulations" for more discussion of regulatory risks. 

Environmental regulations affecting Intrexon, our subsidiaries and our collaborators 

Our collaborators, our subsidiaries and we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and the health and safety of employees with respect to laboratory activities required for the development of products and technologies. These laws and regulations require us and our collaborators to obtain environmental permits and comply with numerous environmental restrictions. These laws and regulations also may require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. 

Our laboratory activities and those of our collaborators inherently involve the use of potentially hazardous materials, which are subject to health, safety and environmental regulations. We design our infrastructure, procedures and equipment to meet our obligations under these regulations. We perform recurring internal and third-party audits and provide employees ongoing training and support, as required. All of our employees must comply with safety instructions and procedures, which are codified in our employment policies. Federal and state laws and regulations impose requirements on the production, importation, use and disposal of chemicals and genetically modified microorganisms, which impact us and our collaborators. Our subsidiaries' and our collaborators' processes may contain genetically engineered organisms which, when used in an industrial processes, are considered new chemicals under the Toxic Substances Control Act program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. These laws and regulations would require our subsidiaries and collaborators to obtain and comply with the EPA's 

Microbial Commercial Activity Notice process to operate. In the European Union, our subsidiaries and collaborators may be subject to a chemical regulatory program known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances). Under REACH, companies are required to register their products with the European Commission, and the registration process could result in significant costs or delay the manufacture or sale of products in the European Union. 

Regulations affecting our collaborators and subsidiaries 

Human therapeutics regulation 

As discussed in "Risk factors &#8212; Risks associated with our business model," the products produced by our collaborators enabled by our technology platforms are subject to extensive regulation. We rely on our collaborators' compliance with laws and regulations applicable to the products they produce. We do not independently monitor whether our collaborators comply with applicable laws and regulations. Please see the risk factor entitled "The markets in which our collaborations are developing products using our technologies are subject to extensive regulation, and we rely on our collaborators to comply with all applicable laws and regulations." 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, including any manufacturing changes, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those being developed by our collaborators. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

In addition to regulations in the United States, our collaborators will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of the products enabled by our technologies. Whether or not our collaborators obtain FDA approval for a product, they must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before they may commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Animal health regulation 

The sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country. In the majority of our target markets, the relevant health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. In the United States, the FDA regulates animal health pharmaceuticals, the United States Department of Agriculture, or USDA, regulates veterinary vaccines, and EPA regulates veterinary pesticides. Each U.S. agency has its own rules and regulations with which our collaborators must comply. In Europe, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines, including animal health products being developed by our collaborators with our technology platforms. Most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the FDA, USDA, European Union and other international animal health entities. 

Oxitec has produced a genetically engineered line of the mosquito Aedes aegypti (OX513A) with the intent of suppressing the population of that mosquito at the release site(s). Oxitec's genetically modified insect products are subject to regulation. The FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine is currently reviewing information in an Investigational New Animal Drug, or INAD, file from Oxitec, regarding the company's genetically engineered mosquitoes. As part of the review, the FDA will publish for public comment a draft environmental assessment submitted by Oxitec that assesses the potential environmental impacts of conducting a field trial in Key Haven, Florida. The FDA is reviewing the draft environmental assessment along with other information on the Oxitec mosquito in consultation with government experts from other agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and EPA. The FDA will not complete its evaluation until it has thoroughly reviewed all the necessary information, including public comments on the draft environmental assessment. The FDA will issue public notification when it publishes the Oxitec draft environmental assessment for comment on www.regulations.gov . We do not currently have a timeline for when this action will occur. The OX513A genetically engineered mosquito has been approved by Brazil's National Biosafety Committee (CTNBio) for releases throughout the country, and open field trials of these mosquitoes have been conducted in Brazil, the Cayman Islands, Panama, and Malaysia. Further approvals will be required for commercial production. 

Food product regulation 

The manufacturing, marketing and certain areas of research related to some of the potential food products developed by our subsidiaries and collaborators are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, the USDA, and the EPA. The FDA regulates genetically engineered animals under new animal drug provisions of the law, and the agency must approve them before they are allowed on the market. Following marketing approval, the FDA continues to regulate drug and biological products extensively. 

Okanagan's Arctic apple products are subject to such regulation. In February 2015, the USDA announced its decision to deregulate Okanagan's GD743 (Golden Delicious) apple variety and GS784 (Granny Smith) apple variety (together, "Arctic apples"). In reaching its decision, the USDA conducted a final plant pest risk assessment, or PPRA, concluding that Arctic apples are unlikely to pose a plant pest risk to agriculture and other plants in the United States. The USDA also completed an environmental assessment, or EA, to comply with the National Environment Policy Act, or NEPA, and concluded that deregulation is not likely to have a significant impact on the human environment. Concurrent with the USDA, Okanagan also engaged in a voluntary food safety assessment consultation with the FDA regarding its Arctic apples. The FDA completed its assessment in March 2015. Based on the information provided by Okanagan and other information available to the agency, the FDA did not identify any safety or regulatory issues under the Federal Food, Drug &#38; Cosmetic Act that would require further evaluation. As part of bringing the assessment to closure, Okanagan was required to submit summaries of its safety and nutritional assessments for its Arctic apples. 

Comparable authorities to the federal and state governmental authorities in the United States are involved in other countries, such as the EMA in Europe and Health Canada in Canada. In relation to Okanagan, Health Canada announced its decision in March 2015 that it has no objection to the food use of the Arctic apple in Canada. In reaching its decision, Health Canada conducted a comprehensive assessment of the GD743 (Golden Delicious) and GS784 (Granny Smith) varieties according to its Guidelines for the Safety Assessment of Novel Foods . These Guidelines are based upon internationally accepted principles for establishing the safety of foods with novel traits. Following this assessment, it was determined that the changes made to the Arctic apple did not pose a greater risk to human health than apples currently available on the Canadian market. In addition, Health Canada also concluded that the Arctic apple would have no impact on allergies, and that there are no differences in the nutritional value of the Arctic apple compared to other traditional apple varieties available for consumption. 

AquaBounty's AAS is also subject to such regulation. The FDA published in December 2012 an EA for AAS along with its Finding of No Significant Impact, or FONSI, in the Federal Register, confirming that an approval of the pending New Animal Drug Application would not have an adverse effect on the environment and opened up a 60 day period for public comment. In February 2013, the FDA extended the period for public comment by an additional 60 days, which expired in April 2013. Prior to the publication of the EA and FONSI, in September 2010, the FDA held a public meeting of its Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee to review its findings regarding AAS. The conclusion of its panel of experts was that AAS is indistinguishable from other farmed Atlantic salmon, is safe to eat and does not pose a threat to the environment under its conditions of use. Subsequently, the FDA initiated an EA in compliance with its obligations under the U.S. NEPA, which requires that all federal agencies consider the possible environmental impacts of any action that they authorize. Subsequently, in November 2015, the FDA approved the New Animal Drug Application for AAS. AquaBounty is subject to on-going post approval responsibilities as detailed in the FDA letter of approval and summarized in the EA dated in November 2015. In the event that AquaBounty seeks to modify or expand its production sites and methods, the company may require further regulatory approvals. 

Energy and chemical regulation 

Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of biofuels. The biofuels developed by our collaborators with our technology platforms may require regulatory approval by governmental agencies prior to commercialization. In the United States, various federal, and, in some cases, state statutes and regulations also govern or impact the manufacturing, safety, storage and use of biofuels. The environmental regulations discussed above also govern the development, manufacture and marketing of energy and chemical products. 

Research and development 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 312 &#32;research and development employees. We incurred expenses of $147.5 million , $59.0 million &#32;and $48.1 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, on research and development activities. We anticipate that our research and development expenditures will increase substantially as we investigate other applications for our synthetic biotechnologies. Our primary domestic research and development operations are located in laboratory facilities in 

Germantown, Maryland; South San Francisco, California; Davis, California; and San Diego, California; and our primary international research and development operations are located in laboratory facilities in Budapest, Hungary; Oxford, England; Ghent, Belgium; and Campinas, Brazil. 

Financial Information 

Collaboration revenues, product revenues, service revenues and other revenues and operating income for each of the last three fiscal years, along with assets at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , are set forth in the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Financial information about geographic areas is set forth in Note 2 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements. 

Production 

Our primary production facilities, including approximately 380 acres of land, are located in Sioux Center, Iowa. The land and facilities are primarily used for our embryo transfer and in vitro fertilization processes, as well as housing livestock used in such processes. We also lease regional production facilities and land in Maryland, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas for these purposes. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 640 &#32;full-time and 94 &#32;part-time employees. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Corporate information 

We are a Virginia corporation and our principal executive offices are located at 20374 Seneca Meadows Parkway, Germantown, MD 20876, and our telephone number is (301) 556-9900. 

Additional Information 

Our website is www.dna.com . The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. We post regulatory filings on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC. Access to these filings on our website is available free of charge. Copies are also available, without charge, from Intrexon Corporation Investor Relations, 20374 Seneca Meadows Parkway, Germantown, Maryland 20876. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov &#32;or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We also post our press releases on our website. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and charters for the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee are available free of charge to shareholders and the public through the "Corporate Governance" section of our website. Printed copies of the foregoing are available to any shareholder upon written request to our Communications Department at the address set forth on the cover of this Annual Report or may be requested through our website, www.dna.com. 

