 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Back to Table of Contents 

Some of the statements contained in this Form 10-K of Peregrine Industries, Inc. (hereinafter the &#34;Company&#34;, &#34;We&#34; or the &#34;Registrant&#34;) discuss future expectations, contain projections of our plan of operation or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. In this registration statement, forward-looking statements are generally identified by the words such as &#34;anticipate&#34;, &#34;plan&#34;, &#34;believe&#34;, &#34;expect&#34;, &#34;estimate&#34;, and the like. Forward-looking statements involve future risks and uncertainties, there are factors that could cause actual results or plans to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward-looking information is based on various factors and is derived using numerous assumptions. A reader, whether investing in the Company's securities or not, should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Annual Report. Important factors that may cause actual results to differ from projections include, for example: 

- the success or failure of management's efforts to implement the Registrant's plan of operation; - the ability of the Registrant to fund its operating expenses; - the ability of the Registrant to compete with other companies that have a similar plan of operation; - the effect of changing economic conditions impacting our plan of operation; - the ability of the Registrant to meet the other risks as may be described in future filings with the SEC. Organizational History and General Background of the Registrant 

The Company was incorporated in Florida in 1995 for the purpose of designing and manufacturing heat pump pool heaters, residential air conditioners and parallel flow coils for the heating, ventilation and air conditioning industry. In June 2002, the Registrant and its subsidiaries filed a petition for bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Florida. The Company emerged from bankruptcy in March 2004 free and clear of all liens, claims and obligations. 

Recent Developments 

On October 26, 2015, GreenStone Holdings Ltd., our controlling shareholder changed its name to Dolomite Holdings Ltd. 

In November 2015, Dolomite purchased the three unaffiliated party notes at principal value of $35,500. As of June 30, 2016, we have four convertible promissory notes outstanding all held by our controlling shareholder Dolomite totaling $195,000, bearing interest at the rate of 1% per annum until paid or converted. 

Business Objectives of the Registrant 

As a result of the bankruptcy proceeding, the Registrant has no present operations. Management determined to direct its efforts and limited resources to pursue and effect a business combination. 

Current trends 

Management believes that as a result of the relative uncertainty in the United States equity markets over the past few years, many privately-held companies have been closed off from the public market and traditional IPO's. During the past few years, many privately-held or public companies attempted to divest non-core assets and divisions and valuations of these assets and divisions have decreased significantly. Therefore, Management believes that there are substantial business opportunities to effect attractive acquisitions. As a public entity with its shares of common stock registered under the Exchange Act and publicly trading, Management believes to be well positioned to identify target acquisitions and to effect a business combination in order to take advantage of these current trends. 

Effecting a business combination 

Prospective investors in the Company's common stock will invest in the Company without an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any one or more business combinations. A business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which needs to raise substantial additional capital by means of being a publicly trading company, while avoiding what it may deem to be adverse consequences of undertaking a public offering itself. These include time delays, significant expense, loss of voting control and compliance with various Federal and state securities laws. A business combination may involve a company which may be financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth. 

The Registrant has not identified a target business or target industry 

The Company's effort in identifying a prospective target business will not be limited to a particular industry and the Company may ultimately acquire a business in any industry Management deems appropriate. To date, the Company has not selected any target business on which to concentrate our search for a business combination but Management may be expected at some point in the future to implement a business combination or otherwise develop a business that may be affiliated with Dolomite, if Management determines that such transaction is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. While the Company intends to focus on target businesses in the United States, we are not limited to those entities and may consummate a business combination with a target business outside of the United States. Accordingly, there is no basis for investors in the Company's common stock to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business or the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate. To the extent we effect a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its early stage of development or growth, including entities without established records of sales or earnings, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of financially unstable and early stage or potential emerging growth companies. In addition, to the extent that we effect a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. An extremely high level of risk frequently characterizes many industries which experience rapid growth. In addition, although the Company's Management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risk factors. 

Sources of target businesses 

The Registrant anticipates that target business candidates will be brought to our attention from various unaffiliated and affiliated sources, including broker-dealers, investment bankers, venture capitalists, bankers and other members of the financial community, who may present solicited or unsolicited proposals. Our Management may also bring to our attention target business candidates that they may presently be aware of or of which they become aware in the future. While we do not presently anticipate engaging the services of professional firms that specialize in business acquisitions on any formal basis, we may engage these firms in the future, in which event we may pay a finder's fee or other compensation. In no event, however, will we pay Management any finder's fee or other compensation for services rendered to us prior to or in connection with the consummation of a business combination. 

Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination 

Dolomite owns 61.8% of the issued and outstanding shares and has broad flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective target business. In evaluating a prospective target business, our Management will consider, among other factors, the following: 

- financial condition and results of operation of the target company; - growth potential; - experience and skill of management and availability of additional personnel; - capital requirements; - competitive position; - stage of development of the products, processes or services; - degree of current or potential market acceptance of the products, processes or services; - proprietary features and degree of intellectual property or other protection of the products, processes or services; - regulatory environment of the industry; and - costs associated with effecting the business combination. 

These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive. Any evaluation relating to the merits of a particular business combination will be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors as well as other considerations deemed relevant by our Management in effecting a business combination consistent with our business objective. In evaluating a prospective target business, we will conduct a due diligence review which will encompass, among other things, meetings with incumbent management and inspection of facilities, as well as review of financial and other information which will be made available to us. 

We will endeavor to structure a business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to us, the target business and both companies' stockholders. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service or appropriate state tax authority will agree with our tax treatment of the business combination. 

The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete the business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us. 

Probable lack of business diversification 

While we may seek to effect a business combination with more than one target business, it is probable that we will have the ability to effect only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations with entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is probable that we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may: - subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination, and - result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. 

Limited ability to evaluate the target business' management 

Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business when evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target business' management will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that the future management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company intending to embark on a program of business development. Furthermore, the future role of our directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. We cannot assure you that our directors will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. 

Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that additional managers will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. 

Competition 

In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. In addition, many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than us. As a result of the change in control discussed above, our financial resources are no longer limited solely to the financial resources of our former Management. However, our financial resources may, nevertheless, be less than those of entities competing for advantageous business combination transactions. While we believe there are numerous potential target businesses, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited. This inherent competitive limitation may give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of a target business. Our Management believes, however, that our status as a public entity and potential access to the United States public equity markets may give us a competitive advantage over privately-held entities having a similar business objective as us in acquiring a target business with significant growth potential on favorable terms. 

If we succeed in effecting a business combination, there will be, in all likelihood, intense competition from competitors of the target business that we acquire. In particular, certain industries which experience rapid growth frequently attract an increasingly larger number of competitors, including competitors with increasingly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than the initial competitors in the industry. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any prospective target business cannot presently be ascertained. We cannot assure you that, subsequent to a business combination, we will have the resources to compete effectively, especially to the extent that the target business is in a high-growth industry. 

Employees 

Mr. Fudim, our CEO, and Mr. Naveh, our CFO, are our sole executive officers and neither are obligated to contribute any specific time or devote material efforts to our affairs. However, both Messrs. Fudim and Naveh are expected to devote as much time as they deem necessary to the Company's affairs until a business combination is concluded. The amount of time they will devote during any period will vary based on the availability of suitable target businesses to evaluate, which evaluation may be expected to be conducted by other persons designated by our controlling shareholder, Dolomite, and our Management. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. 

