 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General 

Since our incorporation in 1949, our primary business has been the safe and reliable transportation of personnel to, from, and among offshore platforms for customers engaged in the oil and gas exploration, development, and production industry. Although we offer these services in several domestic and international markets, most of our offshore flight operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico, where we are a leading provider of such services. Since late 1997, we have also provided air medical transportation for hospitals and for emergency service agencies where we operate as an independent provider of medical services. In addition, we perform helicopter maintenance and repair services, primarily to existing customers that own their own aircraft. At December 31, 2015, we owned or operated 265 aircraft domestically and internationally, 155 of which were dedicated to our Oil and Gas segment, 104 of which were dedicated to our Air Medical segment, and six of which were dedicated to other operations. 

Description of Operations 

We operate in three business segments: Oil and Gas, Air Medical, and Technical Services. For financial information regarding our operating segments and the geographic areas in which they operate, see Note 13, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

Oil and Gas. Our Oil and Gas segment, headquartered in Lafayette, Louisiana, provides helicopter services primarily for the major integrated and independent oil and gas production companies transporting personnel and, to a lesser extent, parts and equipment, to, from and among offshore platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. Our customers include Shell Oil Company, BP America Production Company, ExxonMobil Production Co., and ConocoPhillips Company, with whom we have worked for 35 or more years, and ENI Petroleum, with whom we have worked for more than 20 years. At December 31, 2015, we operated 155 aircraft in this segment. 

Oil and gas exploration and production companies and other offshore oil service companies use our services primarily for routine transportation of personnel and equipment, to transport personnel during medical and safety emergencies, and to evacuate personnel during the threat of hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions. Most of our customers have entered into fixed-term contracts with us, although some hire us on an &#147;ad hoc&#148; or &#147;spot&#148; basis. 

We generally classify our helicopters as light (generally up to six passengers), medium (generally up to 12 passengers) or heavy (up to 19 passengers), each of which serves a different transportation need of offshore energy companies. Medium and heavy helicopters can fly in a wider variety of operating conditions, travel over longer distances and carry larger payloads than light helicopters. These aircraft are required for crew changes on the large offshore production facilities and drilling rigs in the deepwater region of the Gulf of Mexico. Most of our Oil and Gas aircraft are available for hire by any customer, but some are dedicated to individual customers. Our helicopters have flight ranges up to 570 miles with a 30-minute fuel reserve and thus are capable of servicing many of the deepwater oil and gas operations from 50 to 200 miles offshore. (See Item 2 &#150; Properties, for specific information by aircraft model.) 

Our strategic focus in this segment of our business is on providing transport services to the deepwater region of the Gulf of Mexico. As of December 31, 2015, of the 155 aircraft dedicated to our Oil and Gas segment, 83 aircraft were classified as medium or heavy aircraft. Our strategy is to focus more of our business on deepwater operations because we believe they will provide a more stable and profitable source of revenue. Deepwater operations tend to have longer lead times and, consequently, activity levels are generally less susceptible to short term volatility in commodity prices as compared to other offshore operations. The capital commitments are also substantially larger than shallow water operations, and consequently, our client base is more heavily weighted to the major integrated and larger independent oil and gas companies. Finally, the majority of our transportation activity services oil and gas production facilities, which adds stability to our business as these facilities generally operate for longer periods than exploration facilities. 

&#160;

About five years ago, we elected to expand selectively into international markets that we believe have attractive opportunities for growth. As of December 31, 2015, in our oil and gas operations, we had two aircraft in West Africa and five aircraft in the Middle East available for operations. 

Operating revenue from our Oil and Gas segment is derived mainly from contracts that include a fixed monthly rate for a particular model of aircraft, plus variable payments based on the amount of flight time. Operating costs for the Oil and Gas segment are primarily aircraft operation costs, including costs for pilots and maintenance personnel. We typically operate under fixed-term contracts with our customers, a substantial portion of which are competitively bid. Our fixed-term contracts have terms generally of one to seven years, with payment in U.S. dollars. In 2015, approximately 92% of our domestic oil and gas-related revenues were from fixed-term customer contracts, with approximately 58% of these revenues from the fixed fee component and 42% from the variable fee component. The remaining 8% of our 2015 domestic oil and gas-related revenues were attributable to work in the spot market and ad hoc flights for contracted customers. 

Most of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer, sometimes with as little as 30 days&#146; notice for any reason and generally without penalty. In addition, many of our contracts permit our customers to increase or decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding increase or decrease in the fixed monthly payments, and without a significant penalty for a decrease. Our offshore services contracts generally limit our exposure to increases in fuel costs by passing through to our customers fuel costs in excess of pre-agreed levels. When our contracts expire, we believe that we have an advantage in renewing the contract based on the existing relationship with the customer, detailed knowledge of the specific operating environment, and an established base of equipment and personnel on site. 

Operating revenues from the Oil and Gas segment accounted for 57%, 62%, and 57% of consolidated operating revenues during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Air Medical . In the U.S., we provide air medical transportation services for hospitals and emergency service agencies. At December 31, 2015, we provided these services in 19 states using approximately 98 aircraft at 70 separate locations. We also provide air medical transportation services for a customer in the Middle East, as discussed further below. Our Air Medical segment operates primarily under the independent provider model and, to a lesser extent, under the traditional provider model. Under the independent provider model, we have no contracts, no fixed revenue stream and compete for transport referrals on a daily basis with other independent operators in the area. Under the traditional provider model, we contract directly with the hospital to provide its medical transportation services, with the contracts typically awarded through competitive bidding. Our Air Medical operations are headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. 

As an independent provider, we bill for our services on the basis of a flat rate plus a variable charge per patient-loaded mile, regardless of aircraft model, and are typically compensated by Medicaid, Medicare, private insurance, or directly by the transported patient. Revenues are recorded net of contractual allowances under agreements with third party payors and estimated uncompensated care at the time the services are provided. Contractual allowances and uncompensated care are estimated based on our historical collection rates by payor category (consisting mainly of Medicaid, Medicare, private insurance, and self-pay). Changes in our payor mix, reimbursement rates or uncompensated care rates all directly impact our accounts receivable allowance and financial results for each particular reporting period. For additional information, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies&#151;Revenue Recognition, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

We also have a limited number of contracts with hospitals under which we receive a fixed fee component for aircraft availability and a variable fee component for flight time. 

Most of our contracts with hospitals contain provisions permitting early termination by the hospital, typically with 180 days&#146; notice for any reason and generally without penalty. Several of these contracts are issued or renewed based on competitive bidding. 

In September 2012, we commenced flight operations under a three-year contract with a customer in the Middle East to provide helicopter emergency medical services. Under the initial three-year contract, we provided emergency medical flight services and a wide range of ancillary services, including base construction, aircraft leasing, personnel training, aircraft maintenance, provisioning and administrative services. The volume of certain of these ancillary services diminished over time as responsibilities were transitioned to the customer&#146;s personnel. The initial three-year contract provided for payments in U.S. dollars based upon a fixed monthly rate and additional variable payments 

&#160;

based upon the number of flight hours. The initial term of the contract expired in September 2015 and has been extended to June 29, 2016. Under this extension, the number of aircraft operated and the scope of our services and obligations have been reduced. We are currently negotiating a five year replacement contract with this customer. Additional information about the agreement is included in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies&#151;Revenue Recognition, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

In connection with operating our domestic air medical business, we continuously open and close bases in an effort to optimize our service offerings. As of December 31, 2015, our domestic air medical business operated one less base but six more helicopters as compared to December 31, 2014. 

Operating revenues from the Air Medical segment accounted for 39%, 36%, and 32% of consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Technical Services. The Technical Services segment is principally engaged in providing helicopter repair and overhaul services for flight operations customers that own their aircraft. Costs associated with these services are primarily labor, and customers are generally billed at a percentage above our service cost. We also periodically provide flight services to governmental customers under this segment, including our agreement to operate six aircraft for the National Science Foundation in Antarctica, typically in the first and fourth quarters each year. Also included in this segment is our proprietary Helipass operations, which provides software as a service to certain of our Oil and Gas customers for the purpose of passenger check-in and compliance verification. 

Operating revenues from the Technical Services segment accounted for 4%, 2%, and 11% of consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Seasonal Aspects 

Seasonality affects our operations in three principal ways: weather conditions are generally poorer in December, January, and February; tropical storms and hurricanes are prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico in late summer and early fall; and reduced daylight hours restrict our operations in winter; all of which may result in reduced flight hours. When a tropical storm or hurricane is about to enter or begins developing in the Gulf of Mexico, flight activity may temporarily increase because of evacuations of offshore workers, but during the storms, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm and can incur significant expense in moving our aircraft, personnel and support equipment to safer locations. For a more detailed discussion of these events, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Inherent in our Industry &#150; Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions and seasonal factors.&#148; Our operating results vary from quarter to quarter, depending on seasonal factors and other factors outside of our control. As a result, full year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. 

Inventories 

We carry a significant inventory of aircraft parts to support the maintenance and repair of our helicopters and other aircraft. Many of these inventory items are parts that have been removed from aircraft, refurbished according to manufacturers and regulatory specifications, and returned to inventory. The cost to refurbish these parts is expensed as incurred. The carrying values of inventory reported in our consolidated financial statements are affected by these various estimates and may change from time to time if our estimated values change. For additional information, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Inherent in our Industry &#150; We require aircraft components and parts for the maintenance and repair of our aircraft, and supply constraints or cost increases could adversely affect our business&#148; &#150; and Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies&#151;Inventories of Spare Parts, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 

Customers 

Our principal customers are major integrated energy companies and independent exploration and production companies. We also serve energy service companies, hospitals, medical programs, government agencies, and other aircraft owners and operators. Our five largest customers paid us 44% of our consolidated operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our largest customer is in our Oil and Gas segment and accounted for 15%, 17%, and 15% of our consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Also, another customer in our Oil and Gas segment accounted for 11%, 13%, and 12% of our consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our largest customer in our Air Medical and Technical Services segments accounted for 9% and 10% of our consolidated 

&#160;

operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We have entered into contracts with most of our established customers for terms of at least one year, although most contracts include provisions permitting earlier termination by the customers. See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies &#150; Concentration of Credit Risk, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. 

Competition 

Our business is highly competitive in each of our markets, and many of our contracts are awarded after competitive bidding. Factors that impact competition include safety, reliability, price, availability of appropriate aircraft, experience, and quality of service. 

We believe we are a leading operator of helicopters in the Gulf of Mexico. There are two major and several smaller competitors operating in the Gulf of Mexico market, including leasing companies. Although most oil companies traditionally contract for most specialty services associated with offshore operations, including helicopter services, certain of our customers and potential customers in the oil industry operate their own helicopter fleets or have the capability to do so if they so elect. 

In the air medical market, we compete against national and regional firms, and there is usually more than one competitor in each local market. In addition, we compete against hospitals that operate their own helicopters and, in some cases, against ground ambulances as well. 

For additional information, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Inherent in our Industry &#150; The helicopter services business is competitive.&#148; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 2,643 full-time employees and 51 part-time employees, including approximately 770 pilots, 845 aircraft maintenance personnel, and 408 medical support staff. 

Our domestic pilot workforce is represented by the Office and Professional Employees International Union (&#147;OPEIU&#148;), although we and the union do not currently have an agreed-upon collective bargaining agreement. For additional information, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Other Risks Specific to our Company &#150; Our domestic workforce is represented by a union, although we and the union do not have a current agreed upon collective bargaining agreement.&#148; 

Governmental Regulation 

Our operations and the operations of most of our customers are heavily regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations. 

Our domestic aviation operations are regulated primarily under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. Under this act, we cannot operate certain aircraft domestically for hire unless we receive an operating certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration (the &#147;FAA&#148;). The FAA comprehensively regulates our domestic flight operations and exercises broad jurisdiction over our personnel, aircraft, maintenance operations, ground facilities and certain other aspects of our operations, including the authority to impose flight moratoriums. Domestic aircraft accidents are subject to the jurisdiction of the National Transportation Safety Board. Standards relating to the workplace health and safety of our domestic employees are created and monitored through the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. 

Foreign flight operations are governed by the local aviation authority. The laws of most countries limit foreign ownership of aviation companies. To comply with these requirements, we have from time to time formed joint ventures, cooperated with one or more local partners or entered into other alternative arrangements. 

Our air medical operations are also subject to healthcare-related laws and regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended. In addition, as a recipient of funds from state and federal governmental programs, our air medical operations are subject to a variety of stringent state and federal antifraud laws and regulations that impose substantial penalties for false claims, improper payments or improper patient referrals. 

&#160;

Our overseas operations are subject to a variety of U.S. laws and regulations, including (i) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, which generally prohibits us and our intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and (ii) the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which govern the export and import of defense-related products and services. 

We and our customers are also subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Government moratoriums, restrictions or regulatory changes that adversely impact the operations of our oil and gas or medical customers could materially reduce the demand for our services. 

For additional information regarding several regulations applicable to our operations, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters.&#148; 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage, recycling, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. Operating and maintaining helicopters requires that we use, store, and dispose of materials that are subject to federal and state environmental regulation. We periodically conduct environmental site surveys at certain of our facilities and determine whether there is a need for environmental remediation based on these surveys. For additional information, see Item 1A &#150; &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Inherent in our Industry &#150; Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.&#148; See also Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

Corporate Information 

The trading symbol for our voting common stock is &#147;PHII,&#148; and the symbol for our non-voting common stock is &#147;PHIIK.&#148; 

In September 2001, Al A. Gonsoulin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, acquired approximately 52% of our outstanding voting common stock from our founder&#146;s family. As of December 31, 2015, Mr. Gonsoulin beneficially owned 70.2% of our outstanding voting common stock and 7.9% of our outstanding non-voting common stock, representing 19.5% of our total outstanding equity. Mr. Gonsoulin has over 35 years of experience in the oil and gas service industry. In 1977, he founded Sea Mar, Inc. (&#147;Sea Mar&#148;), a provider of marine transportation and support services to the oil and gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico and sold it to Pool Energy Services Co. (&#147;Pool&#148;) in 1998. Pool was acquired by Nabors Industries, Inc. in 1999, and Mr. Gonsoulin continued to serve as President of Sea Mar until December 31, 2001. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 2001 SE Evangeline Thruway, Lafayette, Louisiana 70508, and our telephone number at that address is (337) 235-2452. 

Availability of SEC filings and other information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to any of these reports are available free of charge through our web site: www.phihelico.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The information found on our website is not a part of this or any of our other reports filed with the SEC. 

You may also read and copy any of the materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC&#146;s website address is www.sec.gov . 

Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this Annual Report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the oil and gas or healthcare industries are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources and on assumptions made by us based on our management&#146;s knowledge and experience in the specific markets in which we operate and these industries generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. 

&#160;

In this and other of our SEC reports, we disclose the number of aircraft allocated to our operating segments. As of any particular date, a portion of these aircraft will be unavailable for service for a variety of reasons, including due to certain aircraft being maintained, refurbished, parked or laid-up pending sale. 

&#160;

