 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS

GENERAL 

Panhandle Oil and Gas Inc. was founded in Range, Texas County, Oklahoma, in 1926, as Panhandle Cooperative Royalty Company. The Company operated as a cooperative until 1979, when it merged into Panhandle Royalty Company, and its shares became publicly traded. On April 2, 2007, the Company&#8217;s name was changed to Panhandle Oil and Gas Inc.

While operating as a cooperative, the Company distributed most of its net income to shareholders as cash dividends. Upon conversion to a public company in 1979, although still paying dividends, the Company began to retain a substantial part of its cash flow to participate with a working interest in the drilling of wells on its mineral acreage and to purchase additional mineral acreage. Several acquisitions of additional mineral and leasehold acreage and small companies were made from 1980 to the present time.

The Company is involved in the acquisition, management and development of non-operated oil and natural gas properties, including wells located on the Company&#8217;s mineral and leasehold acreage. Panhandle&#8217;s mineral and leasehold properties are located primarily in Arkansas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma and Texas. The majority of the Company&#8217;s oil, NGL and natural gas production is from wells located in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. 

In March 2007, the Company increased its authorized Class A Common Stock from 12 million shares to 24 million shares. On October 8, 2014, the Company split its Class A Common Stock on a 2-for-1 basis.

The Company&#8217;s office is located at Grand Centre, Suite 300, 5400 N. Grand Blvd., Oklahoma City, OK 73112; telephone &#8211; (405) 948-1560; facsimile &#8211; (405) 948-2038. The Company&#8217;s website is www.panhandleoilandgas.com .

The Company files periodic reports with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. These forms, the Company&#8217;s annual report to shareholders and current press releases are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC or made available to the public. Also, the Company posts copies of its various corporate governance documents on the website. From time to time, the Company posts other important disclosures to investors in the &#8220;Press Release&#8221; or &#8220;Upcoming Events&#8221; section of the website, as allowed by SEC rules.

Materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company that has been filed electronically with the SEC, including this Form 10-K.

(1)

&#160;

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

Most of Panhandle&#8217;s revenues are derived from the production and sale of oil, NGL and natural gas (see Item 8 - &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221;). The Company&#8217;s oil and natural gas properties, including its mineral acreage, leasehold acreage and working and royalty interests in producing wells are located mainly in Arkansas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma and Texas (see Item 2 &#8211; &#8220;Properties&#8221;). Exploration and development of the Company&#8217;s oil and natural gas properties are conducted in association with oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, primarily larger independent companies. The Company does not operate any of its oil and natural gas properties, but has been an active working interest participant for many years in wells drilled on the Company&#8217;s mineral acres and leasehold. The majority of the Company&#8217;s drilling participations are on properties located in unconventional plays in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND MARKETS 

The Company&#8217;s principal products, in order of revenue generated, are natural gas, crude oil and NGL. These products are sold to various purchasers, including pipeline and marketing companies, which service the areas where the Company&#8217;s producing wells are located. Since the Company does not operate any of the wells in which it owns an interest, it relies on the operating expertise of numerous companies that operate wells in which the Company owns interests. This includes expertise in the drilling and completion of new wells, producing well operations and, in most cases, the marketing or purchasing of production from the wells. Oil, NGL and natural gas sales are principally handled by the well operator. Payment for oil, NGL and natural gas sold is received by the Company from the well operator or the contracted purchaser. 

Prices of oil, NGL and natural gas are dependent on numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including supply and demand, competition, weather, international events and circumstances, actions taken by OPEC, and economic, political and regulatory developments. Since demand for natural gas is subject to weather conditions, prices received for the Company&#8217;s natural gas production are subject to seasonal variations. 

The Company enters into price risk management financial instruments (derivatives) to reduce the Company&#8217;s exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas. The derivative contracts apply only to a portion of the Company&#8217;s oil and natural gas production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil and natural gas prices. These derivative contracts expose the Company to risk of financial loss and may limit the benefit of future increases in oil and natural gas prices. Please read Item 7A &#8211; &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk&#8221; and Note 1 to the financial statements included in Item 8 &#8211; &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; for additional information regarding the derivative contracts.

COMPETITIVE BUSINESS CONDITIONS 

The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive, particularly in the search for new oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. Many factors affect Panhandle&#8217;s competitive position and the market for its products, which are beyond its control. Some of these factors include: the quantity 

(2)

&#160;

and price of foreign oil imports; domestic supply of oil, NGL and natural gas; changes in prices received for oil, NGL and natural gas production; business and consumer demand for refined oil products, NGL and nat ural gas; and the effects of federal , state and local regulation of the exploration for, production of and sales of oil, NGL and natural gas (see Item 1A &#8211; &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;). Changes in any of these factors can have a dramatic influence on the price Panhandl e receives for its oil, NGL and natural gas production. 

The Company does not operate any of the wells in which it has an interest; rather it relies on companies with greater resources, staff, equipment, research and experience for operation of wells in both the drilling and production phases. The Company&#8217;s business strategy is to use its strong financial base and its mineral and leasehold acreage ownership, coupled with its own geologic and economic evaluations, either to elect to participate in drilling operations with these companies or to lease or farmout its mineral or leasehold acreage while retaining a royalty interest. This strategy allows the Company to compete effectively in expensive and complex drilling operations it could not undertake on its own with limited capital and staffing.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS 

The existence of economically recoverable oil, NGL and natural gas reserves in commercial quantities is crucial to the ultimate realization of value from the Company&#8217;s mineral and leasehold acreage. These mineral and leasehold properties are essentially the raw materials to our business. The production and sale of oil, NGL and natural gas from the Company&#8217;s properties are essential to provide the cash flow necessary to sustain the ongoing viability of the Company. When it is evaluated to be beneficial to share value, the Company purchases oil and natural gas mineral and leasehold acreage to assure the continued availability of acreage with which to participate in exploration and development drilling operations and, subsequently, to produce and sell oil, NGL and natural gas. This participation in exploration, development and production activities and purchase of additional acreage is necessary to continue to supply the Company with the raw materials with which to generate additional cash flow. Mineral and leasehold acreage purchases are made from many owners. The Company does not rely on any particular companies or persons for the purchases of additional mineral and leasehold acreage.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

The Company&#8217;s oil, NGL and natural gas production is sold, in most cases, through its well operators to many different purchasers. During 2016, sales through two separate well operators accounted for approximately 23% and 12% of the Company&#8217;s total oil, NGL and natural gas sales. During 2015, sales through two separate well operators accounted for approximately 23% and 14% of the Company&#8217;s total oil, NGL and natural gas sales. During 2014, sales through two separate well operators accounted for approximately 17% and 11% of the Company&#8217;s total oil, NGL and natural gas sales. Generally, if one purchaser declines to continue purchasing the Company&#8217;s production, several other purchasers can be located. Pricing is generally consistent from purchaser to purchaser.

(3)

&#160;

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES, FRANCHISES AND ROYALTY AGREEMENTS 

The Company does not own any patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises. Royalty agreements on wells producing oil, NGL and natural gas generate a portion of the Company&#8217;s revenues. These royalties are tied to ownership of mineral acreage, and this ownership is perpetual, unless sold by the Company. Royalties are due and payable to the Company whenever oil, NGL or natural gas is produced and sold from wells located on the Company&#8217;s mineral acreage.

REGULATION 

All of the Company&#8217;s well interests and non-producing properties are located onshore in the contiguous United States, except for very minor international overriding royalty interests. The Company&#8217;s oil and natural gas properties are subject to various taxes, such as gross production taxes and, in some cases, ad valorem taxes.

States require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and impose other regulations relating to the exploration for and production of oil, NGL and natural gas. These states also have regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. These regulations vary from state to state. As previously discussed, the Company must rely on its well operators to comply with governmental regulations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

As the Company is directly involved in the extraction and use of natural resources, it is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental and ecological matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations may necessitate significant capital outlays. The Company does not believe the existence of these environmental laws, as currently written and interpreted, will materially hinder or adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business operations; however, there can be no assurances including future events or changes in laws, or the interpretation of laws, governing our industry. For example, current discussions regarding future governance of hydraulic fracturing could have a material impact on the Company. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission has ordered the shut-in of some saltwater disposal wells and reductions of injected volumes in others in northern Oklahoma where these wells are proximal to recent seismic activity. The Company is currently experiencing insignificant impact and anticipates insignificant future impact from these shut-ins and injection volume reductions due to our minimal working interest ownership in this area. Since the Company does not operate any wells in which it owns an interest, actual compliance with environmental laws is controlled by the well operators, with Panhandle being responsible for its proportionate share of the costs involved. As such, the Company has no knowledge of any instances of non-compliance with existing laws and regulations. Absent an extraordinary event, any noncompliance is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company. The Company maintains insurance coverage at levels which are customary in the industry, but is not fully insured against all environmental risks.

(4)

&#160;

EMPLOYEES 

At September 30, 2016, Panhandle employed 20 people with 4 of the employees serving as executive officers. The President and CEO is also a director of the Company.

