 Item 1. Business 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion includes certain forward-looking statements. For a discussion of important factors, including the continuing development of our business and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results referred to in the historical information and the forward-looking statements presented herein, see "Item 1A, Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" contained in this Annual Report. 

Our Company 

Premier, Inc., incorporated in Delaware on May 14, 2013, is primarily owned by hospitals, health systems and other healthcare organizations (such owners are referred to herein as member owners) located in the United States, as well as public stockholders. Together with our subsidiaries and affiliates, we are a leading healthcare improvement company, uniting an alliance of approximately 3,750 &#32;U.S. hospitals and more than 130,000 &#32;other providers to transform healthcare. With integrated data and analytics, collaboratives, supply chain solutions, and advisory and other services, Premier enables better care and outcomes at a lower cost. We believe that we play a critical role in the rapidly evolving healthcare industry, collaborating with members to co-develop long-term innovations that reinvent and improve the way care is delivered to patients nationwide. We deliver value through a comprehensive technology-enabled platform that offers critical supply chain services, clinical, financial, operational and population health software-as-a-service ("SaaS") informatics products, advisory services and performance improvement collaborative programs. 

As of June 30, 2016 , we were controlled by 171 &#32;U.S. hospitals, health systems and other healthcare organizations that represent approximately 1,400 &#32;owned, leased and managed acute care facilities and other non-acute care organizations. Our current membership base includes many of the country's most progressive and forward-thinking healthcare organizations, and we continually seek to add new members that are at the forefront of innovation in the healthcare industry. Our Class A common stock is generally held by the public, and our Class B common stock is held by the limited partners of Premier LP, referred to as our member owners. 

As a member-owned healthcare alliance, our mission, products and services, and long-term strategy have been developed in partnership with our member hospitals, health systems and other healthcare organizations. We believe that this partnership-driven business model creates a relationship between our members and us that is characterized by aligned incentives and mutually beneficial collaboration. This relationship affords us access to critical proprietary data and encourages member participation in the development and introduction of new Premier products and services. Our interaction with our members provides us with a window into the latest challenges confronting the industry we serve and innovative best practices that we can share broadly within the healthcare industry, including throughout our membership. This model has enabled us to develop size and scale, data and analytics assets, expertise and customer engagement required to accelerate innovation, provide differentiated solutions and facilitate growth. 

We seek to address challenges facing healthcare delivery organizations through our comprehensive suite of solutions that we believe: 

&#8226; 

improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare supply chain; 

&#8226; 

deliver improvement in cost and quality; 

&#8226; 

innovate and enable success in emerging healthcare delivery and payment models to manage the health of populations; and 

&#8226; 

utilize data and analytics to drive increased connectivity, and clinical, financial and operational improvement. 

Our business model and solutions are designed to provide our members access to scale efficiencies, spread the cost of their development, derive intelligence from our data warehouse, mitigate the risk of innovation and disseminate best practices that will help our member organizations succeed in their transformation to higher quality and more cost-effective healthcare. 

We deliver our solutions and manage our business through two &#32;reportable business segments: supply chain services and performance services. The supply chain services segment includes our group purchasing organization or GPO, specialty pharmacy offerings and direct sourcing activities. The performance services segment includes our informatics, collaborative, advisory services and insurance services businesses. 

Industry Overview 

According to data from the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, healthcare expenditures are a large component of the U.S. economy expected to grow by an average of 5.8% &#32;per year for the period 2015-2025, reaching 20.1% &#32;of gross domestic product, or GDP, by 2025. According to data from the 2014 American Hospital Association's Annual Survey, published in the 2016 edition of the AHA Hospital Statistics&#8482;, there were approximately 5,000 &#32;U.S. community hospitals with approximately 786,900 &#32;staffed beds in the United States. Of these acute care facilities, approximately 3,200 &#32;were part of either multi-hospital or diversified single hospital systems, meaning they were owned, leased, sponsored or contract managed by a central organization. According to the May 2016 edition of IMS Health&#8217;s Healthcare Market Index, in addition to U.S. hospitals, there were approximately 520,000 &#32;alternate site facilities and providers across the continuum of care in the United States. These alternate site facilities include primary/ambulatory care and post-acute care providers. Increasingly, these alternate site facilities are being acquired by, integrated into or aligned with acute care facilities creating integrated delivery networks. 

Healthcare Supply Chain Services Industry 

According to CMS data, total spending on hospital services in the United States is projected to be approximately $1.1 trillion , or approximately 32% &#32;of total healthcare expenditures, in 2016. Expenses associated with the hospital supply chain, such as supplies and operational and capital expenditures, typically represent between 20% &#32;and 30% &#32;of a hospital's budget according to Booz &#38; Company. With continued reimbursement rate pressure across government and managed care payers, a transitioning payment model from fee-for-service to value-based payment, and national health expenditures representing a significant portion of the economy, healthcare providers are examining all sources of cost savings, with supply chain spending a key area of focus. We believe opportunities to drive cost out of the healthcare supply chain include improved pricing for medical supplies and pharmaceuticals, appropriate resource utilization and increased operational efficiency. 

From origination at the supplier to final consumption by the provider or patient, healthcare products pass through an extensive supply chain incorporating manufacturers, distributors, GPOs, pharmacy benefit managers, and retail, long-term care and specialty pharmacies, among others. In response to the national focus on health spending and managing healthcare costs, supply chain participants are seeking more convenient and cost-efficient ways to deliver products to patients and providers. We believe that improvements to the healthcare supply chain to bring it on par with other industries that have more sophisticated supply chain management can drive out significant inefficiencies and cost. 

Healthcare Performance Services Industry 

Legislative reform, unsustainable cost trends, and the need for improved quality and outcomes have generated greater focus among healthcare providers on cost management, quality and safety, and population health management. In 2015, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced its goals for aligning future Medicare payments with quality and value, including tying 85 and 90 percent of Medicare fee-for-service payments to performance in 2016 and 2018, respectively, and shifting up to 50 percent of Medicare fee-for-service payments to alternative payment models, such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) or bundled payment arrangements by the end of 2018. In order to meet these goals, health systems will need to continually monitor performance and manage costs, while maintaining high levels of quality and testing new care delivery models. In response to this changing environment, we expect the markets for performance services and solutions in the areas of cost management, quality and safety and population health management to grow significantly. 

We expect information technology to continue to play a key enabling role in efficiency and cost reduction, performance improvement and care transformation across the healthcare industry. In particular, the trends toward value-based purchasing and population-based healthcare are proving to require more sophisticated business intelligence and technology solutions. To achieve higher-quality outcomes and control costs, providers exhibit a strong and continuing need for data and data analytics to help them understand their current performance and identify opportunities for improvement. We expect demand for data management and data analytics products to complement the focus on electronic health record adoption. According to Frost and Sullivan, 50% &#32;of hospitals in the United States are expected to adopt data analytics capabilities by 2016, up from 10% &#32;in 2011. Similarly, the advisory services business is growing rapidly in the areas of business model redesign, process improvement, labor productivity, non-labor cost management, clinical integration and change management. 

Our Membership 

Our current membership base includes many of the country's most progressive and forward-thinking healthcare organizations. The participation of these organizations in our membership provides us with a window into the latest challenges confronting the industry we serve and innovative best practices that we can share broadly throughout our membership. At June 30, 2016 , our members included approximately 3,750 &#32;U.S. hospitals and more than 130,000 &#32;other providers. Approximately 390 &#32;individuals, representing approximately 165 &#32;of our U.S. hospital members, sit on 23 &#32;of our strategic and sourcing committees, and as part of these committees, use their industry expertise to advise on ways to improve the development, quality and value of our products 

and services. In addition, ten &#32;senior executives from our U.S. hospital member owner systems currently serve on our board of directors. Other than GNYHA Purchasing Alliance, LLC and its member organizations, which accounted for 9% , 9% &#32;and 8% &#32;of our net revenue in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, no individual member or member owner systems accounted for more than 5% &#32;of our net revenue in such periods. Total GPO purchasing volume by all members participating in our GPO was approximately $48 billion &#32;and $44 billion &#32;for the calendar years 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to retention rates for members participating in our GPO in the supply chain services segment and renewal rates for our SaaS informatics products subscriptions in the performance services segment for the fiscal years shown: 

&#160; 

Year Ended June 30, 

&#160; 

2015 

3 Year Average 

GPO retention rate (a) 

97% 

99% 

99% 

98% 

SaaS institutional renewal rate (b) 

92% 

94% 

94% 

93% 

(a) 

The retention rate is calculated based upon the aggregate purchasing volume among all members participating in our GPO for such fiscal year less the annualized GPO purchasing volume for departed members for such fiscal year, divided by the aggregate purchasing volume among all members participating in our GPO for such fiscal year. 

(b) 

The renewal rate is calculated based upon the total number of members that have SaaS revenue in a given period that also have revenue in the corresponding prior year period divided by the total number of members that have SaaS revenue in the same period of the prior year. 

Our Business Segments 

We deliver our integrated platform of solutions that address the areas of total cost management, quality and safety improvement and population health management through two business segments: supply chain services and performance services, as addressed in Note 23 - Segments &#32;to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Annual Report. We have no significant foreign operations or revenues. 

Supply Chain Services 

Our supply chain services segment assists our members in managing their non-labor expense and capital spend through a combination of products, services and technologies, including one of the largest national healthcare GPOs in the United States serving acute and alternate sites, specialty pharmacy offerings and direct sourcing activities. Membership in our GPO also provides access to certain SaaS informatics products related to the supply chain and the opportunity to participate in our ASCEND &#174; &#32;collaborative. Our supply chain services segment consists of the following products and solutions: 

Group Purchasing. &#32; Our national portfolio of approximately 2,200 &#32;contracts with approximately 1,200 &#32;suppliers provides our members with access to a wide range of products and services, including medical and surgical products, pharmaceuticals, laboratory supplies, capital equipment, information technology, facilities and construction, food and nutritional products and purchased services (such as clinical engineering and document shredding services). We use our members' aggregate purchasing power to negotiate pricing discounts and improved contract terms with suppliers. Contracted suppliers pay us administrative fees based on the purchase volume of goods and services sold to our healthcare provider members under the contracts we have negotiated. We also partner with other organizations, including regional GPOs, to extend our network base to their members. 

Our contract portfolio is designed to offer our healthcare provider members a flexible solution comprised of multi-sourced supplier contracts, as well as pre-commitment and/or single-sourced contracts that offer higher discounts. Our multi-sourced contracts offer pricing tiers based on purchasing volume and/or commitment and multiple suppliers for many products and services. Our pre-commitment contracts require that a certain amount of our members commit in advance to a specified amount or percentage of purchasing volume before we enter into a contract with a particular supplier. Our single-source contracts are entered into with a specified supplier, and through this exclusive relationship, allow us to contract for products that meet our members' specifications. In the case of pre-commitment contracts, we provide the particular supplier with a list of members that have pre-committed to a specified amount or percentage of purchasing volume and the supplier directly handles the tracking and monitoring of fulfillment of such purchasing volume. In the case of single and multi-sourced contracts we negotiate and execute the contracts on behalf of our members and make such contracts available to our members to access. The utilization of such single and multi-sourced contracts is determined by the particular member with assistance from our field force. Since there are no specific fulfillment requirements needed in our single and multi-source contracts in order to obtain certain pricing levels, each particular member and supplier agree on the appropriate pricing tier based on expected purchasing volume with tracking and ongoing validation of such purchasing volume provided by the supplier. The flexibility 

provided by our expansive contract portfolio allows us to effectively address the varying needs of our members and the significant number of factors that influence and dictate these needs, including overall size, service mix, and the degree of integration between hospitals in a health system. 

We continually innovate our GPO programs and supply chain platforms. For example, our EXPRESSbuy &#174; &#32;program enables coordinated, limited-time, volume-driven purchasing opportunities that offer savings beyond regular contract pricing. Through a proprietary web-based application, we offer our members the opportunity to aggregate committed volumes and achieve additional price discounts while allowing our suppliers to sell targeted products, including time-sensitive or excess inventory, more efficiently and at reduced costs. 

Our GPO programs target multiple markets, including acute care and alternate site settings. Our alternate site program, one of the largest in the United States with approximately 130,000 &#32;members as of June 30, 2016 , includes the following: 

Continuum of Care. &#32; Alternate sites served by our Continuum of Care GPO program include long-term care and senior living, ambulatory care, first responders and emergency medical services, home health, imaging centers and surgery centers. Our Continuum of Care GPO members have access to nearly all of our GPO supplier contracts, including medical and surgical products, pharmaceuticals, laboratory supplies, facilities and construction, capital equipment, information technology, food and nutritional products and purchased services, as well as additional GPO supplier contracts accessed through our 50% &#32;ownership interest in Innovatix, LLC, one of the nation's largest alternate site GPOs. 

ProviderSelect MD &#174; . &#32; ProviderSelect MD &#174; &#32;is one of the nation's largest group purchasing programs for physicians. Focused specifically on independent physician practices, the program offers members access to nearly all of our GPO supplier contracts. 

Premier REACH &#174; . &#32; Premier REACH &#174; &#32;is a group purchasing program for non-healthcare entities, including education ( e.g., &#32;K-12 schools, colleges and universities, and early childhood education), hospitality, recreation ( e.g., &#32;stadiums, parks and fairgrounds) and employee food programs. Our Premier REACH &#174; &#32;members have access to nearly all of our GPO supplier contracts including food service, facilities products and services, information technology and administrative services. 

Specialty Pharmacy. &#32; Through our specialty pharmacy business, we developed a complete service offering for our members to improve access to medication and to better manage patient therapy for chronically-ill patients with specialty drug needs and genetic disorders. Our specialty pharmacy business provides traditional pharmacy dispensing services ( i.e ., retail and mail order), as well as &#8220;specialty pharmacy&#8221; services, which fully integrate the administrative coordination, patient care management, and data management reporting functions that ultimately service the needs of patients, providers, payers, and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The business was specifically designed to serve as a scaled solution for our members and to provide a specialty pharmacy &#8220;care hub&#8221; to meet the unique specialty pharmacy needs of health systems across the continuum of care. We provide robust clinical management programs that are targeted toward those disease states where best-in-class care pathways and interventions by clinically-trained pharmacists are essential for patient adherence and compliance. Our &#8220;care hub&#8221; capabilities enable members to more effectively care for complex patient populations, improve clinical quality and safety, and harness otherwise unavailable clinical data. &#32; 

Direct Sourcing. &#32; Our direct sourcing business, SVS, LLC d/b/a S2S Global ("S2S Global"), was established to help our members access a diverse product portfolio and to provide transparency to manufacturing costs and competitive pricing to our members. Through our consolidated subsidiary, S2S Global, we facilitate the development of product specifications with our members, source or contract manufacture the products to member specifications and sell products directly to our members or suppliers. By engaging with our members at the beginning of the sourcing process to define product specifications and then sourcing, or contract manufacturing, products to meet the exact needs of our members, we eliminate the need for unnecessary product features and specifications that may typically be included by suppliers and result in higher prices for our members without providing incremental value. Therefore, our direct sourcing activities benefit our members by providing them with an expanding portfolio of medical products through more efficient means, and with greater cost transparency, than if such products were purchased from other third-party suppliers. We market our direct sourcing activities under two distinct brands: PremierPro&#8482;, which is designated for our members, and Prime Plus&#8482;, which is designated for our other customers, primarily regional distributors with private-label product programs. 

Managed Services. &#32; Our managed services line of business is a fee for service model created to perform supply chain related services for members. Through a partnership with a national pharmacy benefit manager, we provide contract negotiation and administration, claims data and rebate processing and evaluation of current pharmacy formulary and utilization. 

SaaS Informatics Products. &#32; Members of our GPO have access to certain components of our PremierConnect Supply Chain offering and its associated applications and the ability to purchase additional elements that are discussed in more detail below. 

ASCEND &#174; &#32;Collaborative. Our ASCEND &#174; &#32;Collaborative has developed a process to aggregate purchasing data for our members, enabling such members to determine whether to negotiate committed group purchases within the collaborative. Through our ASCEND &#174; &#32;Collaborative, members receive group purchasing programs, tiers and prices specifically negotiated for them, as well as benchmarking metrics to assist them in identifying additional supply chain and operations cost savings opportunities and knowledge sharing with other member participants and industry experts. As of June 30, 2016 , approximately 780 &#32;U.S. hospital members, which represent approximately 111,000 &#32;hospital beds, participated in our ASCEND &#174; &#32;Collaborative. These hospital member participants have identified approximately $300 million &#32;in additional savings as compared to their U.S. hospital peers not participating in ASCEND &#174; &#32;since its inception in 2009. For calendar year 2015 , these member participants had approximately $14.6 billion &#32;in annual supply chain purchasing spend. 

Performance Services 

Our offerings in the performance services sector of the healthcare industry are primarily information technology analytics and workflow automation and advisory services. We believe we are one of the largest informatics and advisory services businesses in the United States focused exclusively on healthcare providers. Our SaaS informatics products utilize our comprehensive data set to provide actionable intelligence to our members, enabling them to benchmark, analyze and identify areas of improvement across three main categories: cost management, quality and safety, and population health management. This segment also includes our technology-enabled performance improvement collaboratives, through which we convene members, design programs and facilitate, foster and advance the exchange of clinical, financial and operational data among our members to measure patient outcomes and determine best practices that drive clinical, financial and operational improvements. Our performance services segment includes our PremierConnect &#174; technology offerings, advisory services and collaboratives and insurance services, as follows: 

PremierConnect &#174; : 

We have created a world-class integrated technology platform for continuous performance improvement called PremierConnect &#174; . This platform allows members to analyze performance using established data standards, benchmarking, interactive dashboards and custom report services. This portfolio of performance improvement solutions is comprised of the following domains: 

PremierConnect Quality &#38; Regulatory. The PremierConnect Quality &#38; Regulatory domain enables health systems and providers to identify and target high-value quality improvement areas that drive greater clinical effectiveness and efficiency across the continuum of care. This solution provides clinical benchmarking, population analyses and predictive analytics to help hospitals and physician practices be successful in the transition to value-based care. 

PremierConnect Safety. The PremierConnect Safety domain enables health systems and providers to improve patient safety, including ongoing infection prevention, antimicrobial stewardship, reduction of hospital-acquired conditions and real-time clinical surveillance used to drive faster, more informed decisions. 

PremierConnect Supply Chain &#38; ERP. The PremierConnect Supply Chain domain enables health systems and providers to lower supply chain costs through leading supply chain management analytics, evidence-based purchasing, and innovative enterprise resource planning ("ERP") workflow that drives efficiency and effectiveness throughout the entire procurement life cycle. This healthcare-only ERP solution also extends into accounts payable, general ledger and financial reporting. 

PremierConnect Operations. The PremierConnect Operations domain enables health systems and providers to optimize labor management with integrated financial reporting and budgeting across the continuum of care. These applications integrate benchmarking and productivity data from acute, outpatient and ambulatory settings. 

PremierConnect Population Health. The PremierConnect Population Health domain enables health systems and providers to transition to optimal resource and risk management through actionable business intelligence utilizing analytics that provide population and provider insights from measuring and benchmarking acute and ambulatory clinical performance. 

PremierConnect &#174; &#32;Enterprise. The PremierConnect Enterprise domain enables health systems and providers to leverage integrated analytics across all of Premier's subject matter expertise. This solution includes integrating a member's custom data into a hosted and integrated data warehouse and analytics platform. This solution provides data acquisition, management and governance capabilities for health systems and extends this capability to research and life sciences. 

Advisory Services: 

Our advisory services, provided through Premier Performance Partners, seek to drive change and improvement in cost reduction, quality of care and patient safety, and prepare our members to succeed in a population health environment. We use an income statement method to address every area affecting the member's bottom line, finding opportunities in both revenue 

enhancement and expense management. Premier Performance Partners offers expertise and capabilities in the following areas: care coordination and physician engagement, clinical, financial and operational performance, facilities and capital asset management, organizational transformation, physician preference items (PPI), reform readiness assessment, clinical integrated and population health operations and analytics, purchased services assessment, revenue cycle management and recovery audit contractor (RAC) readiness, service line improvement, strategic and business planning and supply chain transformation. 

We provide a data-driven approach and expertise to deliver targeted results in reducing costs, increasing margin and improving quality. Using various specialists and advisors, we provide wrap-around services for our major SaaS informatics products and our GPO to enhance the member value from these programs. For example, our clinical performance partners provide U.S. hospitals with access to performance improvement and operational specialists. Using our informatics tools and applications, these clinical performance partners mine data for improvement opportunities and then lead or assist with improvement projects in such areas as resource and operational assessments, process improvement, performance improvement monitoring, strategic planning and knowledge transfer for organizational change. U.S. hospitals contract for clinical, financial and/or operational performance partner support for a given number of days per month, with contracts lasting from less than a year to five years in duration. 

Performance Improvement Collaboratives: &#160; 

QUEST &#174; &#32;Collaborative. Through our QUEST &#174; &#32;Collaborative (QUEST &#174; ), we work with our members to identify improvement opportunities and best practices and engage them to participate in performance improvement exercises using identified best practices, to collaborate to define performance goals and to use healthy competition to drive performance improvement. QUEST &#174; &#32;builds on the past success of our partnership with CMS in the Premier Hospital Quality Incentive Demonstration, a value-based purchase program through which CMS awarded bonus payments to hospitals for high quality in several clinical areas and reported quality data on its website. The collaborative currently targets improvements in seven domains, including evidence-based care, cost and efficiency of care, patient and family engagement, safety, mortality and appropriate hospital use and community health. As of June 30, 2016 , QUEST &#174; &#32;had approximately 350 &#32;participating U.S. hospitals working together and utilizing our SaaS informatics products to develop highly standardized quality, safety and cost metrics. QUEST &#174; &#32;seeks to develop next-generation quality, safety and cost metrics with a consistency and standardization we do not believe exists today. We believe that our members who participate in QUEST &#174; &#32;are better prepared to deal with healthcare reform requirements and, by improving in the seven domains referenced above, can earn Medicare incentives, avoid Medicare penalties and better manage reimbursement cuts. 

Bundled Payment Collaborative. Our Bundled Payment Collaborative assists our members in their participation in the CMS Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Initiative, an initiative by which organizations enter into payment arrangements that include financial and performance accountability for episodes of care. Our Bundled Payment Collaborative offers ongoing analysis of our members' Medicare Part A and Medicare Part B data, dashboards for managing bundled payment programs and gainsharing, in addition to providing knowledge, expertise, and best practices from experts and members. 

The Population Health Management Collaboratives. Our Population Health Management Collaborative, or PHM Collaborative (the successor to our PACT TM -Partnership for Care Transformation collaborative), is focused on helping members develop and implement effective models of care and payment for connected groups of providers who take responsibility for improving the health status, efficiency and experience of care (quality and satisfaction) for a defined population ( i.e., accountable care organizations) and how to align this care redesign with new value based payment arrangements. Our PHM Collaborative provides members with the opportunity to share value based case and payment developmental strategies, programs, and other best practices. The PHM Collaborative provides valuable assistance and access to over 30 PHM subject matter experts to members in developing the tools necessary to manage the health of a population and to exchange knowledge with each other and with industry and government experts. As of June 30, 2016 , we had 67 health systems and Clinically Integrated Networks, comprised of over 445 &#32;hospitals in 33 &#32;states participating in our PHM Collaborative. 

Partnership for Patients Collaborative. We participated in the CMS-established Partnership for Patients initiative, a public-private collaborative working to improve the quality, safety and affordability of healthcare. Physicians, nurses, hospitals, employers, patients and their advocates, and the federal and state governments have joined together to form Partnership for Patients to decrease preventable hospital-acquired conditions and readmissions. Our Hospital Engagement Network (HEN) serves as a mobile classroom with Clinical Improvement Advisors (CIAs). In September 2015, CMS renewed the Partnership for Patients initiative. 

Data Alliance Collaborative. A group of the nation&#8217;s leading health systems have launched the Data Alliance Collaborative to ensure that healthcare providers have the technology and analytics in place to improve quality and lower costs. These forward-thinking providers are working together with Premier to disrupt the way healthcare information technology is 

developed. Data Alliance Collaborative members are using integrated data ( e.g. , clinical, claims, labor, supply chain, administrative, financial, patient experience, genomics, etc.) to develop new insights and answer the complex questions driven by the transformation to population-based care. They are innovating collaboratively to meet their current needs and are creating the conceptual and technical foundation that enables them to respond nimbly to an uncertain future. 

Insurance Services. We provide insurance programs and services to assist U.S. hospital and healthcare system members with liability and benefits insurance services, along with risk management services. We design insurance programs and services for our members to improve their quality, patient safety and financial performance while lowering costs. We provide management services for American Excess Insurance Exchange, Risk Retention Group, a reciprocal risk retention group that provides excess hospital, professional, umbrella and general liability insurance to certain U.S. hospital and healthcare system members. We also negotiate the purchase of other insurance products from commercial insurance carriers on behalf of our members. 

Pricing and Contracts 

We generate revenue from our supply chain services segment through fees received from suppliers based on the total dollar volume of supplies purchased by our members in connection with our GPO programs and through product sales in connection with our specialty pharmacy and direct sourcing activities. Our performance services segment has three main sources of revenue: (i) three to five-year subscription agreements to our SaaS informatics products, (ii) annual subscriptions to our performance improvement collaboratives and (iii) professional fees for our advisory services. 

Supply Chain Services 

In connection with the Reorganization and IPO, our member owners entered into GPO participation agreements with Premier LP which became effective upon the completion of the Reorganization and the IPO. Pursuant to the terms of its GPO participation agreement, each of these member owners generally receives revenue share from Premier LP equal to 30% &#32;of all gross administrative fees collected by Premier LP based upon purchasing by such member owner's owned, leased, managed and affiliated facilities through our GPO supplier contracts. In addition, our two largest regional GPO member owners, which represented approximately 16% &#32;of our gross administrative fees revenue for the year ended June 30, 2016 , each remit gross administrative fees collected by such member owner based upon purchasing by such member owner's owned, leased, managed and affiliated facilities through the member owner's own GPO supplier contracts, in accordance with their Premier GPO Agreement, and receive revenue share from Premier LP equal to 30% &#32;of such gross administrative fees remitted to us. Subject to certain termination rights, these GPO participation agreements are for an initial five-year term, although our two largest regional GPO member owners have entered into agreements with seven-year terms. The terms of the GPO participation agreements vary as a result of provisions in our existing arrangements with member owners that conflict with the terms of the GPO participation agreement and which by the express terms of the GPO participation agreement are incorporated by reference and deemed controlling and will continue to remain in effect. In limited circumstances, Premier LP and certain member owners entered into GPO participation agreements with certain terms that vary from the standard form, which were approved by the member agreement review committee of our board of directors, based upon regulatory constraints, pending merger and acquisition activity or other exigent circumstances affecting those member owners. Certain non-owner members operate under contractual relationships that provide for a specific revenue share that differs from the 30% &#32;revenue share that we provide to our member owners under the current GPO participation agreements. 

In our specialty pharmacy, we earn revenue from product sales and other services. Revenues are earned through traditional pharmacy dispensing services ( i.e. , retail and mail order), as well as &#8220;specialty pharmacy&#8221; services, including 340B drug pricing program dispensing services, administrative coordination, patient care management and data management reporting functions. Our specialty pharmacy contracts generally range from one to three years in length and, except for exclusive networks, there are generally no guaranteed sales associated with a payer network contract. 

In our direct sourcing activities, we earn revenue from product sales. Products are sold to our members through direct shipment and distributor and wholesale channels. Products are also sold to regional medical-surgical distributors and other non-healthcare industries ( i.e., &#32;foodservice). We have contracts with our members that buy products through our direct shipment option. These contracts do not usually provide a guaranteed purchase or volume commitment requirement. 

Performance Services 

Performance services revenue consists of SaaS informatics products subscriptions, certain perpetual and term licenses, performance improvement collaborative and other service subscriptions, professional fees for advisory services, and insurance services management fees and commissions from group-sponsored insurance programs. 

SaaS informatics products subscriptions include the right to use our proprietary hosted technology on a SaaS basis, training and member support to deliver improvements in cost management, quality and safety, population health management and provider analytics. Pricing varies by subscription and size of the subscriber. Informatics subscriptions are generally three to five-year agreements with automatic renewal clauses and annual price escalators that typically do not allow for early termination. These agreements do not allow for physical possession of the software. Subscription fees are typically billed on a monthly basis and revenue is recognized as a single deliverable on a straight-line basis over the remaining contractual period following implementation. Implementation involves the completion of data preparation services that are unique to each member's data set and, in certain cases, the installation of member site-specific software, in order to access and transfer member data into our hosted SaaS informatics products. Implementation is generally 90 &#32;to 170 days following contract execution before the SaaS informatics products can be fully utilized by the member. 

Performance improvement collaborative and other service subscription revenue to support our offerings in cost management, quality and safety and population health management is recognized over the service period, which is generally one year. 

Professional fees for advisory services are sold under contracts, the terms of which vary based on the nature of the engagement. Fees are billed as stipulated in the contract, and revenue is recognized on a proportional performance method as services are performed and deliverables are provided. In situations where the contracts have significant contract performance guarantees or member acceptance provisions, revenue recognition occurs when the fees are fixed and determinable and all contingencies, including any refund rights, have been satisfied. Fees are based either on time and materials or the savings that are delivered. 

Sales 

We conduct sales through our embedded field force, our dedicated national sales team and our Premier Performance Partners advisors, collectively comprised of approximately 620 &#32;employees as of June 30, 2016 . 

Our field force works closely with our U.S. hospital members and other members to target new opportunities by developing strategic and operational plans to drive cost management and quality and safety improvement initiatives. As of June 30, 2016 , our field force was deployed to seven &#32;geographic regions and several strategic/affinity members across the United States. This field force works at our member sites to identify and recommend best practices for both supply chain and clinical integration cost savings opportunities. The regionally deployed field force is augmented by a national team of subject matter specialists who focus on key areas such as lab, surgery, cardiology, orthopedics, imaging, pharmacy, information technology and construction. Our field force assists our members in growing and supporting their alternate site membership. 

Our sales team provides national sales coverage for establishing initial member relationships and works with our field force to increase sales to existing members. Our regional sales teams are aligned with the seven &#32;regions in our field force model. 

Our Premier Performance Partners team identifies and targets advisory engagements and wrap-around services for our major SaaS informatics products and our GPO to enhance the member value from these programs. 

Intellectual Property 

We offer our members a range of products to which we own intellectual property rights, including online services, best practices content, databases, electronic tools, web-based applications, performance metrics, business methodologies, proprietary algorithms, software products and advisory services deliverables. We own and control a variety of trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. 

We protect our intellectual property by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual arrangements. We are licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others, and, similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development, or R&#38;D, expenditures primarily consist of our strategic investment in internally developed software to further our initiatives, and new product development in the areas of cost management, quality and safety and population health management. We have also made significant investments in our SaaS informatics product offerings. We expensed $2.9 million , $2.9 million &#32;and $3.4 million &#32;for R&#38;D activities for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively, and capitalized software development costs of $61.0 million , $57.9 million &#32;and $41.1 million &#32;for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. We experience fluctuations in our research and development expenditures, including capitalized software development costs, across reportable periods due to the timing of our software development life cycles, with new product features and functionality, new technologies and upgrades to our service offerings. 

Competition 

The markets for our products and services in both our supply chain services segment and performance services segment are fragmented, intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of companies. 

The primary competitors to our supply chain services segment are other large GPOs such as HealthTrust Purchasing Group (a subsidiary of HCA Holdings, Inc.), Intalere Inc., Managed Health Care Associates, Inc. and Vizient, Inc. In addition, we compete against certain healthcare provider-owned GPOs in this segment. Our specialty pharmacy competes with Caremark Inc. (owned by CVS Caremark Corporation), Curascript, Inc./Accredo (owned by Express Scripts Holding Co.), Diplomat Specialty Pharmacy and many smaller local specialty pharmacies. Finally, our direct sourcing activities compete primarily with private label offerings/programs, product manufacturers and distributors, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation, Medline Industries, Inc. and Owens &#38; Minor, Inc. 

The competitors in our performance services segment range from smaller niche companies to large, well-financed and technologically-sophisticated entities. Our primary competitors in this segment include (i) information technology providers such as Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Caradigm USA LLC, Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, IBM Corporation, Infor, Inc., McKesson Corporation and Oracle Corporation, and (ii) consulting and outsourcing firms such as The Advisory Board Company, Deloitte &#38; Touche LLP, Evolent Health, Inc., Healthagen, LLC (a subsidiary of Aetna, Inc.), Huron Consulting, Inc., Navigant Consulting, Inc. and Optum, Inc. (a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, Inc.). 

With respect to our products and services across both segments, we compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth, depth and quality of product and service offerings, ability to deliver clinical, financial and operational performance improvements through the use of products and services, quality and reliability of services, ease of use and convenience, brand recognition and the ability to integrate services with existing technology. With respect to our products and services across both of our business segments, we also compete on the basis of price. 

Government Regulation 

General 

The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal and state authorities and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Factors such as changes in reimbursement policies for healthcare expenses, consolidation in the healthcare industry, regulation, litigation and general economic conditions affect the purchasing practices, operations and the financial health of healthcare organizations. In particular, changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry, such as increased regulation of the purchase and sale of medical products, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements, could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, result in delays or cancellations of orders or reduce funds and demand for our products and services. 

We are subject to numerous risks arising from governmental oversight and regulation. You should carefully review the following discussion and the risks discussed under &#8220;Item 1A, Risk Factors&#8221; for a more detailed discussion. 

Affordable Care Act 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act, is a sweeping measure designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, control healthcare spending and improve healthcare quality. The law includes provisions to tie Medicare provider reimbursement to healthcare quality and incentives, mandatory compliance programs, enhanced transparency disclosure requirements, increased funding and initiatives to address fraud and abuse and incentives to state Medicaid programs to promote community-based care as an alternative to institutional long-term care services. In addition, the law provides for the establishment of a national voluntary pilot program to bundle Medicare payments for hospital and post-acute services, which could lead to changes in the delivery of healthcare services. Likewise, many states have adopted or are considering changes in healthcare policies in part due to state budgetary shortfalls. Because implementation of many provisions of the Affordable Care Act remains unsettled, we do not know what effect the federal Affordable Care Act or state law proposals may have on our business. 

Civil and Criminal Fraud and Abuse Laws 

We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect patients, governmental healthcare programs and private health plans from fraudulent and abusive activities. These laws include anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims. These laws are complex and broadly-worded, and their application to our specific products, services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state 

regulatory and law enforcement authorities have over time increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and rules. These laws and regulations include: 

Anti-Kickback Laws. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered, in whole or in part, by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of "remuneration" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value such as gifts, discounts, rebates, waiver of payments or providing anything at less than its fair market value. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to influence the purchase, lease or ordering of healthcare items and services regardless of whether the item or service is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. Certain statutory and regulatory safe harbors exist that protect specified business arrangements from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute if all elements of an applicable safe harbor are met, however these safe harbors are narrow and often difficult to comply with. Congress has appropriated an increasing amount of funds in recent years to support enforcement activities aimed at reducing healthcare fraud and abuse. 

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, created certain safe harbor regulations which, if fully complied with, assure parties to a particular arrangement covered by a safe harbor that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. We attempt to structure our group purchasing services, pricing discount arrangements with suppliers, and revenue share arrangements with applicable members to meet the terms of the safe harbor for GPOs set forth at 42 C.F.R. &#167; 1001.952(j) and the discount safe harbor set forth at 42 C.F.R. &#167; 1001.952(h). Although full compliance with the provisions of a safe harbor ensures against prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute, failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit within a safe harbor does not necessarily mean that the transaction or arrangement is illegal or that prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute will be pursued. From time to time, HHS, through its Office of Inspector General, makes formal and informal inquiries, conducts investigations and audits the business practices of GPOs, including our GPO, the result of which could be new rules, regulations or in some cases, a formal enforcement action. 

To help ensure regulatory compliance with HHS rules and regulations, our members that report their costs to Medicare are required under the terms of the Premier Group Purchasing Policy to appropriately reflect all elements of value received in connection with our Reorganization and IPO on their cost reports. We are required to furnish applicable reports to such members setting forth the amount of such value, to assist their compliance with such cost reporting requirements. There can be no assurance that the HHS Office of Inspector General or the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, will concur that these actions satisfy their applicable rules and regulations. 

False Claims Act. Our business in general, and our specialty pharmacy in particular, is also subject to numerous federal and state laws that forbid the submission or "causing the submission" of false or fraudulent information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of claims for reimbursement to Medicare, Medicaid, other federal healthcare programs or private health plans. In particular, the False Claims Act, or FCA, prohibits a person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval by an officer, employee or agent of the United States. In addition, the FCA prohibits a person from knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a claim. Violations of the FCA may result in treble damages, significant monetary penalties, and other collateral consequences including, potentially, exclusion from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. The scope and implications of the amendments to the FCA pursuant to the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, or FERA, have yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may impact our business. A claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA. 

Privacy and Security Laws. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contains substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information, referred to as "protected health information." The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity or a business associate (essentially, a third party engaged to assist a covered entity with enumerated operational and/or compliance functions) from using or disclosing protected health information unless the use or disclosure is validly authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the Privacy Rule and only if certain complex requirements are met. In addition to establishing these complex requirements, covered entities and business associates must also meet additional compliance obligations set forth in the Privacy Rule. In addition, the HIPAA Security Rule establishes administrative, organization, physical and technical safeguards to protect the privacy, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by covered entities and business associates. The HIPAA Security Rule requirements are intended to mandate that covered entities and business associates regularly re-assess the adequacy of their safeguards in light of changing and evolving security risks. Finally, the HIPAA Breach Notification Rule requires that covered entities and business associates, under certain circumstances, notify patients/beneficiaries and HHS when there has been an improper use or disclosure of protected health information. 

Our specialty pharmacy, our self-funded health benefit plan and our healthcare provider members (provided that these members engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions with health plans, which will be all or the vast majority) are directly regulated by HIPAA as "covered entities." From time to time, as part of our specialty pharmacy business, certain of our affiliates act as business associates of retail and other pharmacies in connection with co-branding initiatives. As such, we are subject to HIPAA and other risks discussed herein associated with being a business associate. Additionally, because most of our U.S. hospital members disclose protected health information to us so that we may use that information to provide certain data analytics, benchmarking, advisory or other operational and compliance services to these members, we are a "business associate" of those members. In these cases, in order to provide members with services that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, HIPAA require us to enter into "business associate agreements" with our covered entity members. Such agreements must, among other things, provide adequate written assurances: 

(i) 

as to how we will use and disclose the protected health information within certain allowable parameters established by HIPAA, 

(ii) 

that we will implement reasonable administrative, organizational, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information from misuse, 

(iii) 

that we will enter into similar agreements with our agents and subcontractors that have access to the information, 

(iv) 

that we will report breaches of unsecured protected health information, security incidents and other inappropriate uses or disclosures of the information, and 

(v) 

that we will assist the covered entity with certain of its duties under HIPAA. 

With the enactment of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH Act, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA were modified and expanded. The HITECH Act applies certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. Prior to this change, business associates had contractual obligations to covered entities but were not subject to direct enforcement by the federal government. In 2013, HHS released final rules implementing the HITECH Act changes to HIPAA. These amendments expanded the protection of protected health information by, among other things, imposing additional requirements on business associates, further restricting the disclosure of protected health information in certain cases when the disclosure is part of a remunerated transaction, and modifying the HIPAA Breach Notification Rule, which has been in effect since September 2009, to create a rebuttable presumption that any improper use or disclosure of protected health information requires notice to affected patients/beneficiaries and HHS. 

Transaction Requirements. HIPAA also mandates format, data content and provider identifier standards that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice and eligibility inquiries. Although our systems are fully capable of transmitting transactions that comply with these requirements, some payers and healthcare clearinghouses with which we conduct business may interpret HIPAA transaction requirements differently than we do or may require us to use legacy formats or include legacy identifiers as they make the transition to full compliance. In cases where payers or healthcare clearinghouses require conformity with their interpretations or require us to accommodate legacy transactions or identifiers as a condition of successful transactions, we attempt to comply with their requirements, but may be subject to enforcement actions as a result. In 2009, CMS published a final rule adopting updated standard code sets for diagnoses and procedures known as ICD-10 code sets and changing the formats to be used for electronic transactions subject to the ICD-10 code sets, known as Version 5010. All healthcare providers are required to comply with Version 5010 and use the ICD-10 code sets. We are actively working to make the proper modifications in preparation for the upcoming release of new ICD-10 code sets on October 1, 2016. 

Other Federal and State Laws. In addition to our obligations under HIPAA there are other federal laws that impose specific privacy and security obligations, above and beyond HIPAA, for certain types of health information and impose additional sanctions and penalties. These rules are not preempted by HIPAA. Most states have enacted patient and/or beneficiary confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, data security breach notification requirements, and special rules for so-called "sensitive" health information, such as mental health, genetic testing results, or Human Immunodeficiency Virus, or HIV, status. These state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them as well. 

We are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA or other federal or state laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the associated costs of compliance. For example, the federal Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, or ONCHIT, is coordinating the development of national standards for creating an interoperable health information technology infrastructure based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the healthcare sector. We are yet unable to predict what, if any, impact the creation of such standards and the further developments at ONCHIT will have on the necessary specifications or demand for our products, services, or on associated compliance costs. 

Antitrust Laws 

The Sherman Antitrust Act and related federal and state antitrust laws are complex laws that prohibit contracts in restraint of trade or other activities that are designed to or that have the effect of reducing competition in the market. The federal antitrust laws promote fair competition in business and are intended to create a level playing field so that both small and large companies are able to compete in the market. In their 1996 Statements of Antitrust Enforcement Policy in Health Care, first issued in 1993, or the Healthcare Statements, the DOJ and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, set forth guidelines specifically designed to help GPOs gauge whether a particular purchasing arrangement may raise antitrust concerns and established an antitrust safety zone for joint purchasing arrangements among healthcare providers. Under this antitrust safety zone, the DOJ and FTC will not challenge, except in extraordinary circumstances, joint purchasing arrangements among healthcare providers that meet two basic conditions: (i) the purchases made by the healthcare providers account for less than 35% &#32;of the total sales of the purchased product or service in the relevant market; and (ii) the cost of the products and services purchased jointly account for less than 20% &#32;of the total revenues from all products and services sold by each competing participant in the joint purchasing arrangement. 

We have attempted to structure our contracts and pricing arrangements in accordance with the Healthcare Statements and believe that our GPO supplier contracts and pricing discount arrangements should not be found to violate the antitrust laws. However, no assurance can be given that enforcement authorities will agree with this assessment. From time to time, the group purchasing industry comes under review by congress and other governmental bodies with respect to antitrust laws. In connection with the 2002 hearing by the U.S. Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights, we and other operators of GPOs formed the Healthcare Supply Chain Association, or HSCA, which developed a code of conduct to assure compliance with ethical and legal standards, including the antitrust laws. In addition, in 2002 we adopted our own Code of Conduct in consultation with a leading ethicist. 

On August 11, 2009, we and several other operators of GPOs received a letter from Senators Charles Grassley, Herb Kohl and Bill Nelson requesting information concerning the different relationships between and among us and our members, distributors, manufacturers and other suppliers, and requesting certain information about the services we perform and the payments we receive in connection with our GPO programs. On September 25, 2009, we and several other operators of GPOs received a request for information from the U.S. Government Accountability Office, or GAO, also concerning our services and relationships with our members in connection with our GPO programs. Subsequently, we and other operators of GPOs received follow-up requests for additional information. We fully complied with all of these requests. On September 27, 2010, the GAO released a report titled "Group Purchasing Organizations-Services Provided to Customers and Initiatives Regarding Their Business Practices." On that same day, the Minority Staff of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee released a report titled "Empirical Data Lacking to Support Claims of Savings with Group Purchasing Organizations." On March 30, 2012, the GAO released a report titled "Group Purchasing Organizations-Federal Oversight and Self-Regulation." On November 24, 2014, the GAO released a report titled "Funding Structure Has Potential Implications for Medicare Costs." 

Congress, the DOJ, the FTC, the U.S. Senate or another state or federal entity could at any time open a new investigation of the group purchasing industry, or develop new rules, regulations or laws governing the industry, that could adversely impact our ability to negotiate pricing arrangements with suppliers, increase reporting and documentation requirements, or otherwise require us to modify our arrangements in a manner that adversely impacts our business. We may also face private or government lawsuits alleging violations arising from the concerns articulated by these governmental factors or alleging violations based solely on concerns of individual private parties. 

Governmental Audits 

Because we act as a GPO for healthcare providers that participate in governmental programs, our group purchasing services have in the past and may again in the future be subject to periodic surveys and audits by governmental entities or contractors for compliance with Medicare and Medicaid standards and requirements. We will continue to respond to these government reviews and audits but cannot predict what the outcome of any future audits may be or whether the results of any audits could significantly or negatively impact our business, our financial condition or results of operations. 

Compliance Department 

We have developed a compliance program that is designed to monitor that our operations are conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and, if violations occur, to promote early detection and prompt resolution. These objectives are achieved through education, monitoring, disciplinary action and other remedial measures we believe to be appropriate. We provide all of our employees with a compliance education that has been developed to communicate our code of conduct, standards of conduct, and compliance policies and procedures, as well as policies for monitoring, reporting and responding to compliance issues. We also provide all of our employees with a third party toll-free number and Internet website address in order to report any compliance or privacy concerns. In addition, our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer individually, and along with the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors, helps oversee compliance and ethics matters across our business operations. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016 , we employed approximately 2,100 &#32;persons, approximately 47% &#32;of whom are based in our headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina. None of our employees are working under a collective bargaining arrangement. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy the documents that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain further information about the operation of the SEC's Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also inspect these reports and other information without charge at a website maintained by the SEC. The address of this site is https://www.sec.gov. In addition, our website address is www.premierinc.com. We make available through our website the documents identified above, free of charge, promptly after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

We also provide information about our company through: Twitter &#32;(https://twitter.com/premierha), Facebook &#32; (https://www.facebook.com/premierhealthcarealliance), LinkedIn &#32;(https://www.linkedin.com/company/6766), YouTube &#32; (https://www.youtube.com/user/premieralliance), Instagram &#32; (https://instagram.com/premierha), Foursquare &#32; (https://foursquare.com/premierha) and Premier&#8217;s blog &#32; (https://www.actionforbetterhealthcare.com). 

Except as specifically indicated otherwise, the information available on our website, the SEC's website and the social media outlets identified above, is not and shall not be deemed a part of this Annual Report. 

