 Item 1. Business 

General 

Unless otherwise indicated, the terms &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;Parker,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Parker Drilling Company together with its subsidiaries and "Parker Drilling" refers solely to the parent, Parker Drilling Company. Parker Drilling was incorporated in the state of Oklahoma in 1954 after having been established in 1934. In March 1976, the state of incorporation of the Company was changed to Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 5 Greenway Plaza, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77046. 

We are an international provider of contract drilling and drilling-related services and rental tools. We have operated in over 50 &#32;countries since beginning operations in 1934, making us among the most geographically experienced drilling contractors and rental tools providers in the world. We currently have operations in 21 &#32;countries. Parker has set numerous world records for deep and extended-reach drilling land rigs and is an industry leader in quality, health, safety and environmental practices. 

Our business is comprised of two business lines: (1) Drilling Services and (2) Rental Tools Services. We report our Rental Tools Services business as one reportable segment (Rental Tools) and report our Drilling Services business as two reportable segments: (1) U.S. (Lower 48) Drilling and (2) International &#38; Alaska Drilling. For information regarding our reportable segments and operations by geographic areas for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , see Note 12 &#32;- Reportable Segments in Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 7 . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Our Drilling Services Business 

In our Drilling Services business, we drill oil and gas wells for customers in both the U.S. and international markets. We provide this service with both Company-owned rigs and customer-owned rigs. We refer to the provision of drilling services with customer owned rigs as our operations and maintenance (O&#38;M) service in which operators own their own drilling rigs but choose Parker Drilling to operate and maintain the rigs for them. The nature and scope of activities involved in drilling an oil and gas well is similar whether it is drilled with a Company-owned rig (as part of a traditional drilling contract) or a customer-owned rig (as part of an O&#38;M contract). In addition, we provide project related services, such as engineering, procurement, project management and commissioning of customer owned drilling facility projects. We have extensive experience and expertise in drilling geologically difficult wells and in managing the logistical and technological challenges of operating in remote, harsh and ecologically sensitive areas. 

U.S. (Lower 48) Drilling &#32; 

Our U.S. (Lower 48) Drilling segment provides drilling services with our Gulf of Mexico (GOM) barge drilling rig fleet and through U.S. (Lower 48) based O&#38;M services. Our GOM barge drilling fleet operates barge rigs that drill for oil and natural gas in shallow waters in and along the inland waterways and coasts of Louisiana, Alabama and Texas. The majority of these wells are drilled in shallow water depths ranging from 6 to 12 feet. Our rigs are all equipped for zero-discharge operations and based on the diversity of our fleet, our rigs are suitable for a variety of drilling programs from inland coastal waters, requiring shallow draft barges, to open water drilling on both state and federal water projects requiring more robust hull depth capabilities. The barge drilling industry in the GOM is characterized by cyclical activity where utilization and dayrates are typically driven by oil and gas prices and our customers&#8217; access to project financing. Contract terms tend to be well-to-well or multi-well programs, most commonly ranging from 45 to 150 days. 

International &#38; Alaska Drilling 

Our International &#38; Alaska Drilling segment provides drilling services, with Company-owned rigs as well as through O&#38;M contracts, and project related services. We strive to deploy our fleet of Parker-owned rigs in markets where we expect to have opportunities to keep the rigs consistently utilized and build a sufficient presence to achieve efficient operating scale. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we had rigs operating in Mexico, Colombia, Guatemala, Kazakhstan, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Sakhalin Island, Russia, and Alaska. In addition, we have O&#38;M and ongoing project related services for customer-owned rigs in Abu Dhabi, Sakhalin Island, Russia and Kuwait. 

The drilling markets in which this segment operates have one or more of the following characteristics: 

&#8226; 

customers that typically are major, independent or national oil and natural gas companies or integrated service providers; 

&#8226; 

drilling programs in remote locations with little infrastructure requiring a large inventory of spare parts and other ancillary equipment and self-supported service capabilities; 

&#8226; 

complex wells and/or harsh environments (such as high pressures, deep depths, hazardous or geologically challenging conditions and sensitive environments) requiring specialized equipment and considerable experience to drill; and 

&#8226; 

drilling and O&#38;M contracts that generally cover periods of one year or more. 

Our Rental Tools Services Business 

In our Rental Tools Services business, we provide premium rental equipment and services to exploration and production (E&#38;P) companies, drilling contractors and service companies on land and offshore in the United States (U.S.) and select international markets. Tools we provide include standard and heavy-weight drill pipe, all of which are available with standard or high-torque connections, tubing, pressure control equipment, including blow-out preventers (BOPs), drill collars and more. We also provide well construction services, which include tubular running services and downhole tools, and well intervention services, which include whipstock, fishing products and related services, as well as inspection and machine shop support. 

Our U.S. rental tools business is headquartered in New Iberia, Louisiana and our international rental tools business is headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). We maintain an inventory of rental tools and provide services to our customers on land and offshore from facilities in Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, North Dakota and West Virginia, as well as in the Middle East, Latin America, United Kingdom, Europe, and Asia-Pacific regions. 

Our largest single market for rental tools is U.S. land drilling, a cyclical market driven primarily by oil and gas prices and our customers' access to project financing. A portion of our U.S. rental tools business is supplying tubular goods and other equipment to offshore GOM customers. Generally, rental tools are used for only a portion of a well drilling program and are requested by the customer when they are needed, requiring us to keep a broad inventory of rental tools in stock. Rental tools are usually rented on a daily or monthly basis. 

On April 22, 2013, we completed the acquisition of International Tubular Services Limited (ITS) and related assets (collectively, the ITS Acquisition). On April 17, 2015 , we acquired 2M-Tek, a Louisiana-based manufacturer of equipment for tubular running and related well services (the 2M-Tek &#32;Acquisition). See Note 2 &#32; - Acquisitions &#32; in Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion. 

Our Business Strategy 

We intend to successfully compete in select energy services businesses that benefit our customers&#8217; exploration, appraisal and development programs, and in which operational execution is the key measure of success. We will do this by: 

&#8226; 

Consistently delivering innovative, reliable, and efficient results that help our customers reduce their operational risks and manage their operating costs; and 

&#8226; 

Investing to improve and grow our existing business lines, and to expand the scope of products and services we offer. 

Our Core Competencies 

We believe our core competencies are the foundation for delivering operational excellence to our customers. Applying and strengthening these core competencies will be a key factor in our success: 

Customer Aligned Operational Excellence: &#32;Our daily focus is meeting the needs of our customers. We strive to anticipate our customers&#8217; challenges and provide innovative, reliable and efficient solutions to help them achieve their business objectives. 

Rapid Personnel Development: Motivated, skilled and effective people are critical to the successful execution of our strategy. We strive to attract and retain the best people, to develop depth and strength in key skills, and to provide a safety-and solutions-oriented workforce to our customers. 

Selective and Effective Market Entry: &#32;We are selective about the services we provide, geographies in which we operate, and customers we serve. We intend to build Parker&#8217;s business in markets with the best potential for sustained growth, profitability and operating scale. We are strategic, timely and intentional when we enter new markets and when we grow organically or through acquisition or investments in new business ventures. 

Enhanced Asset Management and Predictive Maintenance : We believe well-maintained rigs, equipment and rental tools are critical to providing reliable results for our customers. We employ predictive and preventive maintenance programs and training to sustain high levels of effective utilization and to provide reliable operating performance and efficiency. 

Standard, Modular and Configurable Processes and Equipment: &#32;To address the challenging and harsh environments in which our customers operate, we develop standardized processes and equipment that can be configured to meet each project&#8217;s distinct technological requirements. Repeatable processes and modular equipment leverage our investments in assets and employees, increase efficiency and reduce disruption. 

We believe there are tangible rewards from delivering value to our customers through superior execution of our core competencies. When we deliver innovative, reliable and efficient solutions aligned with our customers&#8217; needs, we believe we are well-positioned to earn premium rates, generate follow-on business and create growth opportunities that enhance our financial performance and advance our strategy. 

Customers and Scope of Operations 

Our customer base consists of major, independent and national oil and natural gas E&#38;P companies and integrated service providers. Each of our segments depends on a limited number of key customers and the loss of any one or more key customers could have a material adverse effect on a segment. In 2015 , our largest customer, Exxon Neftegas Limited accounted for approximately 27.9 &#32;percent of our total revenues. For information regarding our reportable segments and operations by geographic areas for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , see Note 12 &#32;- Reportable Segments in Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 7 . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Competition 

We operate in competitive businesses characterized by high capital requirements, rigorous technological challenges, evolving regulatory requirements and challenges in securing and retaining qualified field personnel. 

In drilling markets, most contracts are awarded on a competitive bidding basis and operators often consider reliability, efficiency and safety in addition to price. We have been successful in differentiating ourselves from competitors through our drilling performance and safety record, and through providing services that help our customers manage their operating costs and mitigate their operational risks. 

In international drilling markets, we compete with a number of international drilling contractors as well as local contractors. Although local drilling contractors often have lower labor and mobilization costs, we are generally able to distinguish ourselves from these companies based on our technical expertise, safety performance, quality of service, and experience. We believe our expertise in operating in challenging environments has been a significant factor in securing contracts. In the GOM barge drilling market, we compete with a small number of contractors. We have the largest number and greatest diversity of rigs available in this market, allowing us to provide equipment and services that are well-matched to customers&#8217; requirements. We believe the market for drilling contracts will continue to be competitive with continued focus on reliability, efficiency and safety, in addition to price. 

In rental tools markets, we compete with suppliers both larger and smaller than our own business, some of which are components of larger enterprises. We compete against other rental tools companies based on breadth of inventory, the availability and price of product and quality of service. In the U.S. market, our network of locations provides broad and efficient product availability. In international markets, some business is obtained in conjunction with our drilling and O&#38;M projects. 

Contracts 

Most drilling contracts are awarded based on competitive bidding. The rates specified in drilling contracts vary depending upon the type of rig employed, equipment and services supplied, geographic location, term of the contract, competitive conditions and other variables. Our contracts generally provide for an operating dayrate during drilling operations, with lower rates for periods of equipment downtime, customer stoppage, adverse weather or other conditions, and no payment when certain conditions continue beyond contractually established parameters. When a rig mobilizes to or demobilizes from an operating area, the contract typically provides for a different dayrate or specified fixed payments during mobilization or demobilization. The terms of most of our contracts are based on either a specified period of time or the time required to drill a specified number of wells. The contract term in some instances may be extended by the customer exercising options for an additional time period or for the drilling of additional wells, or by exercising a right of first refusal. Most of our contracts allow termination by the customer prior to the end of the term without penalty under certain circumstances, such as the loss of or major damage to the drilling unit or other events that cause the suspension of drilling operations beyond a specified period of time. See &#8220;Certain of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty and with little or no notice.&#8221; in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain contracts require the customer to pay an early termination fee if the customer terminates a contract before the end of the term without cause. Our project services contracts include engineering, procurement, and project management consulting, for which we are compensated through labor rates and cost plus markup basis for non-labor items. 

Rental tools contracts are typically on a dayrate basis with rates determined based on type of equipment and competitive conditions. Rental rates generally apply from the time the equipment leaves our facility until it is returned. Rental contracts generally require the customer to pay for lost-in-hole or damaged equipment. 

Seasonality 

Our rigs in the inland waters of the GOM are subject to severe weather during certain periods of the year, particularly during hurricane season from June through November, which could halt operations for prolonged periods or limit contract opportunities during that period. In addition, mobilization, demobilization, or well-to-well movements of rigs in arctic regions can be affected by seasonal changes in weather or weather so severe the conditions are deemed too unsafe to operate. 

Backlog 

Backlog is our estimate of the dollar amount of revenues we expect to realize in the future as a result of executing awarded contracts. The Company's backlog of firm orders was approximately $291 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and $674 million &#32;at December 31, 2014 &#32;and is primarily attributable to the International &#38; Alaska segment of our Drilling Services business. We estimate that, as of December 31, 2015 , 68.0 percent &#32;of our backlog will be recognized as revenues within one year. 

The amount of actual revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned could be different from amounts disclosed in our backlog calculations due to a lack of predictability of various factors, including unscheduled repairs, maintenance requirements, weather delays, contract terminations or renegotiations, new contracts and other factors. See "Our backlog of contracted revenue may not be fully realized and may reduce significantly in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows." in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

&#32; Insurance and Indemnification 

Substantially all of our operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, cratering, oil and natural gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution, mechanical failure and damage or loss during transportation. Some of our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. These hazards could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage, which could lead to claims by third parties or customers, suspension of operations and contract terminations. We have had accidents in the past due to some of these hazards. 

Our contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification between ourselves and our customers. We maintain insurance with respect to personal injuries, damage to or loss of equipment and various other business risks, including well control and subsurface risk. Our insurance policies typically have 12-month policy periods. 

Our insurance program provides coverage, to the extent not otherwise paid by the customer under the indemnification provisions of the drilling or rental tool contract, for liability due to well control events and liability arising from third-party claims, including wrongful death and other personal injury claims by our personnel as well as claims brought on behalf of individuals who are not our employees. Generally, our program provides liability coverage up to $350.0 million, with retentions of $1.0 million or less. 

Well control events generally include an unintended flow from the well that cannot be contained by using equipment on site ( e.g., &#32;a BOP), by increasing the weight of drilling fluid or by diverting the fluids safely into production. Our insurance program provides coverage for third-party liability claims relating to sudden and accidental pollution from a well control event up to $350.0 million per occurrence. A separate limit of $10.0 million exists to cover the costs of re-drilling of the well and well control costs under a Contingent Operators Extra Expense policy. For our rig based operations, remediation plans are in place to prevent the spread of pollutants and our insurance program provides coverage for removal, response and remedial actions. We retain the risk for liability not indemnified by the customer below the retention and in excess of our insurance coverage. 

Based upon a risk assessment and due to the high cost, high self-insured retention and limited coverage for windstorms in the GOM, we have elected not to purchase windstorm insurance for our barge rigs in the GOM. Although we have retained the risk for physical loss or damage for these rigs arising from a named windstorm, we have procured insurance coverage for removal of a wreck caused by a windstorm. 

Our contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers and may require us to indemnify our customers. Liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a &#8220;knock-for-knock&#8221; basis, which means that we and our customers customarily assume liability for our respective personnel and property regardless of fault. In addition, our customers typically indemnify us for damage to our equipment down-hole, and in some cases our subsea equipment, generally based on replacement cost minus some level of depreciation. However, in certain contracts we may assume liability for damage to our customer&#8217;s property and other third-party property on the rig and in other contracts we are not indemnified by our customers for damage to their property and, accordingly, could be liable for any such damage under applicable law. 

Our customers typically assume responsibility for and indemnify us from any loss or liability resulting from pollution, including clean-up and removal and third-party damages, arising from operations under the contract and originating below the surface of the land or water, including losses or liability resulting from blowouts or cratering of the well. In some contracts, 

however, we may have liability for damages resulting from such pollution or contamination caused by our gross negligence or, in some cases, ordinary negligence. 

We generally indemnify the customer for legal and financial consequences of spills of industrial waste, lubricants, solvents and other contaminants (other than drilling fluid) on the surface of the land or water originating from our rigs or equipment. We typically require our customers to retain liability for spills of drilling fluid (sometimes called &#8220;mud&#8221;) which circulates down-hole to the drill bit, lubricates the bit and washes debris back to the surface. Drilling fluid often contains a mixture of synthetics, the exact composition of which is prescribed by the customer based on the particular geology of the well being drilled. 

The above description of our insurance program and the indemnification provisions typically found in our contracts is only a summary as of the date hereof and is general in nature. Our insurance program and the terms of our drilling and rental tool contracts may change in the future. In addition, the indemnification provisions of our contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and enforcement of those provisions may be limited by public policy and other considerations. 

If any of the aforementioned operating hazards results in substantial liability and our insurance and contractual indemnification provisions are unavailable or insufficient, our financial condition, operating results or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 

Employees 

The following table sets forth the composition of our employee base: 

&#160; 

December 31, 

&#160; 

&#160; 

U.S. (Lower 48) Drilling 

&#160; 

International &#38; Alaska Drilling 

1,286 

&#160; 

1,571 

Rental Tools 

&#160; 

1,110 

Corporate 

&#160; 

Total employees 

2,567 

&#160; 

3,443 

Environmental Considerations 

Our operations are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, and local laws and regulations, as well as the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate, pertaining to the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), issue regulations to implement and enforce laws pertaining to the environment, which often require difficult and costly compliance measures that carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties or may result in injunctive relief for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically sensitive and other protected areas; require remedial action to clean up pollution from former operations; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly compliance could adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of similarly situated entities operating in the same markets. While our management believes that we comply with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, there is no assurance that compliance can be maintained in the future. 

As an owner or operator of both onshore and offshore facilities, including mobile offshore drilling rigs in or near waters of the United States, we may be liable for the costs of clean up and damages arising out of a pollution incident to the extent set forth in federal statutes such as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (commonly known as the Clean Water Act (CWA)), as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA); the Clean Air Act (CAA); the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA); the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA); the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA); and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA) as well as comparable state laws. In addition, we may also be subject to civil claims arising out of any such incident. 

The OPA and related regulations impose a variety of regulations on &#8220;responsible parties&#8221; related to the prevention of spills of oil or other hazardous substances and liability for damages resulting from such spills. &#8220;Responsible parties&#8221; include the owner or operator of a vessel, pipeline or onshore facility, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. The OPA assigns liability for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages to each responsible party. The OPA also requires some facilities to demonstrate proof of financial responsibility and to prepare an oil spill response plan. Failure to comply with ongoing requirements or inadequate cooperation in a spill may subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions. 

The OCSLA authorizes regulations relating to safety and environmental protection applicable to lessees and permittees operating on the Outer Continental Shelf. Specific design and operational standards may apply to Outer Continental Shelf vessels, rigs, platforms, vehicles and structures. The Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulates the design and operation of well control and other equipment at offshore production sites, implementation of safety and environmental management systems, and mandatory third-party compliance audits, among other requirements. Violations of environmentally related lease conditions or regulations issued pursuant to the OCSLA can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as potential court injunctions curtailing operations and the cancellation of leases. Such enforcement liabilities, delay or restriction of activities can result from either governmental or citizen prosecution. 

Our operations are also governed by laws and regulations related to workplace safety and worker health, primarily the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, various other governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require us to obtain certain miscellaneous permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. The kind of permits, licenses and certificates required by our operations depend upon a number of factors. We believe we have the necessary permits, licenses and certificates that are material to the conduct of our existing business. 

CERCLA (also known as &#8220;Superfund&#8221;) and comparable state laws impose potential liability without regard to fault or the legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of &#8220;hazardous substances&#8221; into the environment. While CERCLA exempts crude oil from the definition of hazardous substances for purposes of the statute, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be classified as hazardous substances. CERCLA assigns strict liability to a broad class of potentially responsible parties for all response and remediation costs, as well as natural resource damages. In addition, persons responsible for release of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the cost of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. 

RCRA and comparable state laws regulate the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Current RCRA regulations specifically exclude from the definition of hazardous waste &#8220;drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy.&#8221; However, these wastes and other wastes may be otherwise regulated by EPA or state agencies. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, spent solvents, laboratory wastes, and used oils, may be regulated as hazardous waste. Although the costs of managing solid and hazardous wastes may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than competitor companies involved in similar drilling operations. 

The CAA and similar state laws and regulations restrict the emission of air pollutants and may also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. In addition, those laws may require us to obtain permits for the construction, modification, or operation of certain projects or facilities and the utilization of specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. For example, the EPA has adopted regulations known as &#8220;RICE MACT&#8221; that require the use of &#8220;maximum achievable control technology&#8221; to reduce formaldehyde and other emissions from certain stationary reciprocating internal combustion engines, which can include portable engines used to power drilling rigs. 

Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases including carbon dioxide and methane, commonly referred to as &#8220;greenhouse gases&#8221; (GHGs), may be contributing to the warming of the atmosphere resulting in climate change. There are a variety of legislative and regulatory developments, proposals, requirements, and initiatives that have been introduced in the U.S. and international regions in which we operate that are intended to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change and these may increase costs of compliance for our drilling services or our customer's operations. Among these developments, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) established a set of emission targets for GHGs that became binding on all those countries that had ratified it. The Kyoto Protocol was followed by the Paris Agreement of the 2015 UNFCC, which will be open for signing on April 22, 2016 and, under the agreement, ratifying countries may set more ambitious GHG emission targets. 

Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and result in a disruption of our customers&#8217; operations. 

Executive Officers 

Officers are elected each year by the board of directors following the annual shareholders' meeting for a term of one year or until the election and qualification of their successors. The current executive officers of the Company and their ages, positions with the Company and business experience are presented below: 

&#8226; 

Gary G. Rich, 57 , joined the Company in October 2012 as the president and chief executive officer. Mr. Rich also serves as Chairman of the Company&#8217;s board of directors. He is an industry veteran with over 30 years of global technical, commercial and operations experience. Mr. Rich came to Parker Drilling after a 25-year career with Baker Hughes Incorporated. Mr. Rich served as vice president of global sales for Baker Hughes from August 2011 to October 2012, and prior to that role, he served as president of that company&#8217;s European operations from April 2009 to August 2011. Previously, Mr. Rich was president of Hughes Christensen Company (HCC), a division of Baker Hughes primarily focused on the production and distribution of drilling bits for the petroleum industry. 

&#8226; 

Christopher T. Weber, 43 , &#32;joined the Company in May 2013 as the senior vice president and chief financial officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Weber served as the vice president and treasurer of Ensco plc., a public offshore drilling company, from 2011 to May 2013. From 2009 to 2011, Mr. Weber served as vice president, operations for Pride International, Inc., prior to which he served as director, corporate planning and development from 2006 to 2009. 

&#8226; 

Jon-Al Duplantier, 48 , &#32;is the senior vice president, chief administrative officer, general counsel, and secretary of the Company, a position held since 2013. Mr. Duplantier has over 20 years' experience in the oil and gas industry. Mr. Duplantier joined the Company in 2009 as vice president and general counsel. From 1995 to 2009, Mr. Duplantier served in several legal and business roles at ConocoPhillips, including senior counsel &#8211; Exploration and Production, vice president and general counsel &#8211; Conoco Phillips Indonesia, and vice president and general counsel &#8211; Dubai Petroleum Company. Prior to joining ConocoPhillips, he served as a patent attorney for DuPont from 1992 to 1995. 

&#8226; 

David R. Farmer, 54 , &#32;was appointed the senior vice president, Europe, Middle East, and Asia (EMEA) in early 2014. He joined the Company in 2011 as vice president of operations. Mr. Farmer has over 20 years' experience in the upstream oilfield services business working in executive, engineering, operational, marketing, account management, planning, and general management roles in Europe, the Middle East, North America and South America. From 1991 to 2011, Mr. Farmer served in various positions at Schlumberger, including vice president and global account director &#8211; Schlumberger Ltd. The Netherlands, vice president and general manager &#8211; Schlumberger Oilfield Service Qatar, and global marketing manager &#8211; Schlumberger Drilling &#38; Measurement Division, Houston, Texas. Most recently, Mr. Farmer was responsible for Demand Planning management and the development of long term tactical resource plans for Schlumberger&#8217;s Drilling &#38; Measurement division. 

&#8226; 

Philip L. Agnew, 47 , &#32;has served as the Company's senior vice president and chief technical officer since 2013. He joined the Company in December 2010 as vice president of technical services. Mr. Agnew has more than 20 years' experience in design, construction and project management. From 2003 to 2010, Mr. Agnew held the position of President at Aker MH, Inc., a business unit of Aker Solutions AS. From 1998 to 2003, Mr. Agnew served as Project Manager and then vice president &#8211; Project Development at Signal International (previously Friede Goldman Offshore; TDI-Halter LP; Texas Drydock, Inc.). Prior to his career at Signal International, Mr. Agnew served a variety of leadership roles at Schlumberger Sedco Forex International Resources, Interface Consulting International, Inc., and Brown &#38; Root, Inc. 

Other Parker Drilling Company Officers 

&#8226; 

Leslie K. Nagy, 41 , was appointed principal accounting officer and controller on April 1, 2014. Mrs. Nagy served as director of finance and assistant controller of the Company from December 2012 through March 2014, as assistant controller of the Company from May 2011 to December 2012, and as manager of external reporting and general accounting of the Company from August 2010 to May 2011. Prior to joining Parker Drilling, Mrs. Nagy worked for Ernst &#38; Young LLP from 1997 to 2010. 

&#8226; 

Philip A. Schlom, 51 , &#32;was named vice president, global compliance and internal audit, effective December 2014. He joined the Company in 2009 as principal accounting officer and controller. From 2008 to 2009, he held the position of vice president and corporate controller for Shared Technologies Inc. From 1997 to 2008, Mr. Schlom held several senior financial positions at Flowserve Corporation, a leading manufacturer of pumps, valves and seals for the energy sector. From 1988 through 1997, Mr. Schlom worked at the public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 

&#8226; 

David W. Tucker, 60 , &#32;treasurer, joined the Company in 1978 as a financial analyst and served in various financial and accounting positions before being named chief financial officer of our formerly wholly-owned subsidiary, Hercules Offshore Corporation, in February 1998. Mr. Tucker was named treasurer of the Company in 1999. 

Available Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on our website at http://www.parkerdrilling.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, our reports, proxy and information statements and our other SEC filings are available on an Internet website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

