 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. (&#8220;Holdings&#8221;) was incorporated as an Ohio corporation in 1998. Holdings, primarily through the subsidiaries owned by its direct subsidiary, Park-Ohio Industries, Inc. (&#8220;Park-Ohio&#8221;), is an industrial supply chain logistics and diversified manufacturing business operating in three segments: Supply Technologies, Assembly Components and Engineered Products. 

References herein to &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;the Company&#8221; include, where applicable, Holdings, Park-Ohio and Holdings&#8217; other direct and indirect subsidiaries. 

The Company operates through three reportable segments: Supply Technologies, Assembly Components and Engineered Products. Supply Technologies provides our customers with Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;services for a broad range of high-volume, specialty production components. Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;manages the efficiencies of every aspect of supplying production parts and materials to our customers&#8217; manufacturing floor, from strategic planning to program implementation, and includes such services as engineering and design support, part usage and cost analysis, supplier selection, quality assurance, bar coding, product packaging and tracking, just-in-time and point-of-use delivery, electronic billing services and ongoing technical support. The principal customers of Supply Technologies are in the following industries: heavy-duty truck; automotive, truck and vehicle parts; power sports and recreational equipment; bus and coaches; electrical distribution and controls; agricultural and construction equipment; consumer electronics; HVAC; lawn and garden; semiconductor equipment; aerospace and defense; and plumbing. Assembly Components manufactures products oriented toward fuel efficiency and reduced emission requirements. Assembly Components manufactures cast and machined aluminum components, automotive and industrial rubber and thermoplastic products, gasoline direct injection systems, fuel filler and hydraulic assemblies for automotive, agricultural equipment, construction equipment, heavy-duty truck and marine equipment industries. Assembly Components also provides value-added services such as design and engineering, machining and assembly. Engineered Products operates a diverse group of niche manufacturing businesses that design and manufacture a broad range of high quality products engineered for specific customer applications. The principal customers of Engineered Products are original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;) and end users in the ferrous and non-ferrous metals, silicon, coatings, forging, foundry, heavy-duty truck, construction equipment, automotive, oil and gas, rail and locomotive manufacturing and aerospace and defense industries. 

Our sales are made through our own sales organization, distributors and independent sales representatives. Intersegment sales are immaterial and eliminated in consolidation and are not included in the financial results presented. Income allocated to segments excludes certain corporate expenses, interest expense, and certain other infrequent or unusual charges or credits. Identifiable assets by segment include assets directly identified with those operations. As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 6,000 persons. 

The following chart reflects our end-use market mix for the year ended December 31, 2015 : 

The following chart reflects our geographic mix for the year ended December 31, 2015 : 

The following table summarizes the key attributes of each of our business segments: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Supply Technologies 

&#160; 

Assembly Components 

&#160; 

Engineered Products 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

NET SALES FOR 2015 

$578.7 million 

(40% of total) 

&#160; 

$569.2 million 

(39% of total) 

&#160; 

$315.9 million 

(21% of total) 

SELECTED PRODUCTS 

Sourcing, planning and procurement of over 190,000 production components, including: 

&#8226; Fasteners 

&#8226; Pins 

&#8226; Valves 

&#8226; Hoses 

&#8226; Wire harnesses 

&#8226; Clamps and fittings 

&#8226; Rubber and plastic components 

&#160; 

&#8226; Control arms 

&#8226; Knuckles 

&#8226; Injection molded rubber products 

&#8226; Pump housings 

&#8226; Clutch retainers/pistons 

&#8226; Rubber and thermoplastic hose 

&#8226; Oil pans 

&#8226; Flywheel spacers 

&#8226; Fuel filler assemblies 

&#8226; Gasoline direct injection systems 

&#160; 

&#8226; Induction heating and melting systems 

&#8226; Pipe threading systems 

&#8226; Industrial oven systems 

&#8226; Forging presses 

&#8226; Forged steel and machined products 

SELECTED INDUSTRIES SERVED 

&#8226; Heavy-duty truck 

&#8226; Power sports and recreational equipment 

&#8226; Electrical distribution and controls 

&#8226; Consumer electronics 

&#8226; Bus and coaches 

&#8226; Automotive 

&#8226; Agricultural and construction equipment 

&#8226; HVAC 

&#8226; Lawn and garden 

&#8226; Semiconductor equipment 

&#8226; Aerospace and defense 

&#8226; Plumbing 

&#8226; Medical 

&#160; 

&#8226; Automotive 

&#8226; Agricultural equipment 

&#8226; Construction equipment 

&#8226; Heavy-duty truck 

&#8226; Marine equipment 

&#160; 

&#8226; Ferrous and non-ferrous metals 

&#8226; Coatings 

&#8226; Forging 

&#8226; Foundry 

&#8226; Heavy-duty truck 

&#8226; Construction equipment 

&#8226; Silicon 

&#8226; Automotive 

&#8226; Oil and gas 

&#8226; Rail and locomotive manufacturing 

&#8226; Aerospace and defense 

Supply Technologies 

Our Supply Technologies business provides our customers with Total Supply Management &#8482; , a proactive solutions approach that manages the efficiencies of every aspect of supplying production parts and materials to our customers&#8217; manufacturing floor, from strategic planning to program implementation. Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;includes such services as engineering and design support, part usage and cost analysis, supplier selection, quality assurance, bar coding, product packaging and tracking, just-in-time and point-of-use delivery, electronic billing services and ongoing technical support. We operate 54 logistics service centers in the United States, Mexico, Canada, Puerto Rico, Scotland, Hungary, China, Taiwan, Singapore, India, United Kingdom, Poland and Ireland, as well as production sourcing and support centers in Asia. Through our supply chain management programs, we supply more than 190,000 globally-sourced production components, many of which are specialized and customized to meet individual customers&#8217; needs. 

Products and Services. Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;provides our customers with an expert partner in strategic planning, global sourcing, technical services, parts and materials, logistics, distribution and inventory management of production components. Some production components are characterized by low per unit supplier prices relative to the indirect costs of supplier management, quality assurance, inventory management and delivery to the production line. In addition, Supply 

Technologies delivers an increasingly broad range of higher-cost production components including valves, electro-mechanical hardware, labels, fittings, steering components and many others. Applications engineering specialists and the direct sales force work closely with the engineering staff of OEM customers to recommend the appropriate production components for a new product or to suggest alternative components that reduce overall production costs, streamline assembly or enhance the appearance or performance of the end product. As an additional service, Supply Technologies also provides spare parts and aftermarket products to end users of its customers&#8217; products. 

Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;services are typically provided to customers pursuant to sole-source arrangements. We believe our services distinguish us from traditional buy/sell distributors, as well as manufacturers who supply products directly to customers, because we outsource our customers&#8217; high-volume production components supply chain management, providing processes customized to each customer&#8217;s needs and replacing numerous current suppliers with a sole-source relationship. Our highly-developed, customized, information systems provide transparency and flexibility through the complete supply chain. This enables our customers to: (1) significantly reduce the direct and indirect cost of production component processes by outsourcing internal purchasing, quality assurance and inventory fulfillment responsibilities; (2) reduce the amount of working capital invested in inventory and floor space; (3) reduce component costs through purchasing efficiencies, including bulk buying and supplier consolidation; and (4) receive technical expertise in production component selection and design and engineering. Our sole-source arrangements foster long-term, entrenched supply relationships with our customers and, as a result, the average tenure of service for our top 50 Supply Technologies clients exceeds six years. Supply Technologies&#8217; remaining sales are generated through the wholesale supply of industrial products to other manufacturers and distributors pursuant to master or authorized distributor relationships. 

The Supply Technologies segment also engineers and manufactures precision cold formed and cold extruded products, including locknuts, SPAC &#174; &#32;nuts and wheel hardware, which are principally used in applications where controlled tightening is required due to high vibration. Supply Technologies produces both standard items and specialty products to customer specifications, which are used in large volumes by customers in the automotive, heavy-duty truck and rail industries. 

Markets and Customers. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 71% of Supply Technologies&#8217; net sales were to domestic customers. Remaining sales were primarily to manufacturing facilities of large, multinational customers located in Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia. Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;services and production components are used extensively in a variety of industries, and demand is generally related to the state of the economy and to the overall level of manufacturing activity. 

Supply Technologies markets and sells its services to over 7,800 customers domestically and internationally. The principal industries served by Supply Technologies are the heavy-duty truck; automotive, truck and vehicle parts; power sports and recreational equipment; bus and coaches; electrical distribution and controls; agricultural and construction equipment; consumer electronics; HVAC; lawn and garden; semiconductor equipment; aerospace and defense; and plumbing. The five largest customers, within which Supply Technologies sells through sole-source contracts to multiple operating divisions or locations, accounted for approximately 34% of the sales of Supply Technologies in 2015 &#32;and 32% in 2014 . The loss of any two of its top five customers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of this segment. 

Competition. A limited number of companies compete with Supply Technologies to provide supply management services for production parts and materials. Some global competitors include Bossard, Fastenal, Optimus, Wolseley and Wurth. Supply Technologies competes in North America, Mexico, Europe and Asia, primarily on the basis of its Total Supply Management &#8482; &#32;services, including engineering and design support, part usage and cost analysis, supplier selection, quality assurance, bar coding, product packaging and tracking, just-in-time and point-of-use delivery, electronic billing services and ongoing technical support, and its geographic reach, extensive product selection, price and reputation for high service levels. Numerous North American and foreign companies compete with Supply Technologies in manufacturing cold-formed and cold-extruded products. 

Assembly Components 

Assembly Components manufactures products oriented towards fuel efficiency and reduced emission standards. Assembly Components designs, develops and manufactures aluminum products and highly efficient, high pressure Direct Fuel Injection fuel rails and pipes, fuel filler pipes that mount on to the gas tank, as well as flexible multi-layer plastic and rubber 

assemblies used to transport fuel to the vehicle's gas tank and then, at extreme high pressure, to the engine's fuel injector nozzles. These advanced products coupled with Turbo Enabled engines make up large and growing engine architecture for all worldwide car manufacturers. Assembly Components also designs and manufactures Turbo Charging hoses along with Turbo Coolant hoses that will be required as engines get downsized to 3 and 4 cylinders from 6 or 8 cylinders. This engine downsizing increases efficiency, while dramatically decreasing pollution levels. In addition, our Assembly Components segment operates what we believe is one of the few aluminum component suppliers that have the capability to provide a wide range of high-volume, high-quality products utilizing a broad range of processes including gravity and low pressure permanent mold, die-cast and lost-foam, as well as emerging alternative casting technologies. In 2012, we added machining capabilities to our aluminum products service offerings. 

Products and Services. Assembly Components manufactures cast aluminum components, automotive and industrial rubber and thermoplastic products, fuel filler, gasoline direct injection systems and hydraulic assemblies for automotive, agricultural equipment, construction equipment, heavy-duty truck and marine equipment industries. Assembly Components&#8217; principal products include control arms, knuckles, pump housings, clutch retainers and pistons, master cylinders, oil pans and flywheel spacers, injected molded rubber and silicone products, including wire harnesses, shock and vibration mounts, spark plug boots and nipples and general sealing gaskets, rubber and thermoplastic hose, fuel filler assemblies and gasoline direct injection systems. We produce our Assembly Components at twenty-five manufacturing facilities in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Tennessee, Florida, Mexico, China and the Czech Republic. In addition, we also provide value-added services such as design engineering, machining and part assembly. 

Markets and Customers. The five largest customers, to which Assembly Components sells to multiple operating divisions through sole-source contracts, accounted for approximately 49% of Assembly Components sales for 2015 &#32;and 46% for 2014 . The loss of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of this segment. 

Competition. Assembly Components competes principally on the basis of its ability to: (1) engineer and manufacture high-quality, cost-effective, assemblies utilizing multiple technologies in large volumes; (2) provide timely delivery; and (3) retain the manufacturing flexibility necessary to quickly adjust to the needs of its customers. There are few domestic companies with capabilities able to meet the customers&#8217; stringent quality and service standards and lean manufacturing techniques. As one of these suppliers, Assembly Components is well-positioned to benefit as customers continue to consolidate their supplier base. Principal competitors in the Assembly Components segment are Chassix, Compass Automotive, Martinrea and Stant. 

Engineered Products 

Our Engineered Products segment operates a diverse group of niche manufacturing businesses that design and manufacture a broad range of highly-engineered products, including induction heating and melting systems, pipe threading systems and forged and machined products. We manufacture these products in twelve domestic facilities and twelve international facilities in Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany, China, Italy, India and Japan. 

Products and Services. Our induction heating and melting business utilizes proprietary technology and specializes in the engineering, construction, service and repair of induction heating and melting systems, primarily for the ferrous and non-ferrous metals, silicon, coatings, forging, foundry, automotive and construction equipment industries. Our induction heating and melting systems are engineered and built to customer specifications and are used primarily for melting, heating, and surface hardening of metals and curing of coatings. Approximately 46% of our induction heating and melting systems&#8217; revenues are derived from the sale of replacement parts and provision of field service, primarily for the installed base of our own products. Our pipe threading business serves the oil and gas industry. We also engineer and install mechanical forging presses, sell spare parts and provide field service for the large existing base of mechanical forging presses and hammers in North America. We machine, induction harden and surface finish crankshafts and camshafts, used primarily in locomotives. We forge aerospace and defense structural components such as landing gears and struts, as well as rail products such as railcar center plates and draft lugs. 

Markets and Customers. We sell induction heating and other capital equipment to component manufacturers and OEMs in the ferrous and non-ferrous metals, silicon, coatings, forging, foundry, automotive, truck, construction equipment and oil and 

gas industries. We sell forged and machined products to locomotive manufacturers, machining companies and sub-assemblers who finish aerospace and defense products for OEMs, and railcar builders and maintenance providers. 

Competition. We compete with small-to medium-sized domestic and international equipment manufacturers on the basis of service capability, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery performance and engineering expertise. We compete domestically and internationally with small-to medium-sized forging and machining businesses on the basis of product quality and precision. 

Sales and Marketing 

Supply Technologies markets its products and services in the United States, Mexico, Canada, Western and Eastern Europe and East and South Asia primarily through its direct sales force, which is assisted by applications engineers who provide the technical expertise necessary to assist the engineering staff of OEM customers in designing new products and improving existing products. Assembly Components primarily markets and sells its products in North America through internal sales personnel and independent sales representatives. Engineered Products primarily markets and sells its products in North America through both internal sales personnel and independent sales representatives. Induction heating and pipe threading equipment is also marketed and sold in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa through both internal sales personnel and independent sales representatives. In some instances, the internal engineering staff assists in the sales and marketing effort through joint design and applications-engineering efforts with major customers. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

Supply Technologies purchases substantially all of its production components from third-party suppliers. Supply Technologies has multiple sources of supply for its components. An increasing portion of Supply Technologies&#8217; production components are purchased from suppliers in foreign countries, primarily Canada, Taiwan, China, South Korea, Singapore, India and multiple European countries. Supply Technologies is dependent upon the ability of such suppliers to meet stringent quality and performance standards and to conform to delivery schedules. Assembly Components and Engineered Products purchase substantially all of their raw materials, principally metals and certain component parts incorporated into their products, from third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Most raw materials required by Assembly Components and Engineered Products are commodity products available from several domestic suppliers. Management believes that raw materials and component parts other than certain specialty products are available from alternative sources. 

Our suppliers of raw materials and component parts may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of the raw materials, such as steel, that they use to manufacture our raw materials and component parts. We generally attempt to pass along increased raw materials prices to our customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw materials prices and our ability to increase the price of our products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure or other factors. See the discussion of risks associated with raw material supply and costs in Item 1A "Risk Factors". 

Backlog 

Management believes that backlog is not a meaningful measure for Supply Technologies, as a majority of Supply Technologies&#8217; customers require just-in-time delivery of production components. Management believes that Assembly Components&#8217; backlog as of any particular date is not a meaningful measure of sales for any future period as a significant portion of sales are on a release or firm order basis. The backlog of Engineered Products&#8217; orders believed to be firm as of December 31, 2015 &#32;was $147.2 million compared with $199.7 million as of December 31, 2014 . Approximately 90% of Engineered Products&#8217; backlog as of December 31, 2015 &#32;is scheduled to be shipped in 2016 . 

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations 

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect public health and the environment, particularly with regard to discharges and emissions, as well as handling, storage, treatment and disposal, of various substances and wastes. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil and criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, owners or operators of facilities may be liable for the costs of response or other corrective actions for contamination identified at or emanating from 

current or former locations, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any such contamination, and for related damages to natural resources. Additionally, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or materials may be liable for costs of response at sites where they are located, whether or not the site is owned or operated by such person. 

From time to time, we have incurred, and are presently incurring, costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance and remediating environmental conditions at certain of our properties. In general, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with environmental laws in the past, and compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our capital expenditures on environmental control facilities were not material during the past five years and such expenditures are not expected to be material to us in the foreseeable future. 

We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, including property where we have disposed of our waste, and for addressing environmental conditions. For instance, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at third-party sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or comparable state laws, which provide for strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability. We are participating in the cost of certain clean-up efforts at several of these sites. The availability of third-party payments or insurance for environmental remediation activities is subject to risks associated with the willingness and ability of the third party to make payments. However, our share of such costs has not been material and, based on available information, we do not expect our exposure at any of these locations to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 

Information as to Segment Reporting and Geographic Areas 

The information contained in Note 2 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein relating to (1) net sales, income before income taxes, identifiable assets and other information by segment and (2) net sales and assets by geographic region for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;is incorporated herein by reference. 

Recent Developments 

IPSCO Tubulars Inc. d/b/a TMK IPSCO sued Ajax Tocco Magnethermic Corporation ("ATM"), a subsidiary of Holdings, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas claiming that equipment supplied by ATM for heat treating certain steel pipe at IPSCO&#8217;s Blytheville, Arkansas facility did not perform as required by the contract. The complaint alleged causes of action for breach of contract, gross negligence, and constructive fraud. IPSCO sought approximately $10 million &#32;in damages plus an unspecified amount of punitive damages. ATM denied the allegations. ATM subsequently obtained summary judgment on the constructive fraud claim, which was dismissed by the district court prior to trial. The remaining claims were the subject of a bench trial that occurred in May 2013. After IPSCO presented its case, the district court entered partial judgment in favor of ATM, dismissing the gross negligence claim, a portion of the breach of contract claim, and any claim for punitive damages. The trial proceeded with respect to the remainder of IPSCO&#8217;s claim for breach of contract. In September 2013, the district court issued a judgment in favor of IPSCO in the amount of $5.2 million , which the Company recognized and accrued for at that time. IPSCO subsequently filed a motion seeking to recover $3.8 million &#32;in attorneys&#8217; fees and costs. The district court reserved ruling on that issue pending an appeal. In October 2013, ATM filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit seeking reversal of the judgment in favor of IPSCO. In November 2013, IPSCO filed a cross-appeal seeking reversal of the dismissal of its claims for gross negligence and punitive damages. The Eighth Circuit issued an opinion in March 2015 affirming in part, reversing in part, and remanding the case. It affirmed the district court's determination that ATM was liable for breach of contract. It also affirmed the district court's dismissal of IPSCO's claims for gross negligence and punitive damages. However, the Eighth Circuit reversed nearly all of the damages awarded by the district court and remanded for further findings on the issue of damages, including whether consequential damages are barred under the express language of the contract. Because IPSCO did not appeal the award of $5.2 million &#32;in its favor, those damages could be decreased, but could not be increased, on remand. On remand, the district court entered an order once again awarding IPSCO $5.2 million &#32;in damages. In December 2015, ATM filed a second appeal with the Eighth Circuit seeking reversal of the damages award. In March 2016, the district court issued an order granting, in part, IPSCO's motion for fees and costs and awarding $2.2 million to IPSCO. ATM expects to appeal that decision. 

Available Information 

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K proxy statements and other information, including amendments to these reports and statements, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The public can obtain copies of these materials by visiting the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, or by accessing the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC, we make such materials available on our website free of charge at http://www.pkoh.com. The information on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Information with respect to our executive officers as of March 14, 2016 &#32;is as follows: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Edward F. Crawford 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Matthew V. Crawford 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Operating Officer and Director 

Patrick W. Fogarty 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Robert D. Vilsack 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Secretary and General Counsel 

Mr. E. Crawford &#32;has been a director and our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 1992. He has also served as the Chairman of Crawford Group, Inc., a management company for a group of manufacturing companies, since 1964. 

Mr. M. Crawford &#32;has been President and Chief Operating Officer since 2003 and joined us in 1995 as Assistant Secretary and Corporate Counsel. He was also our Senior Vice President from 2001 to 2003. Mr. M. Crawford became one of our directors in August 1997 and has served as President of Crawford Group, Inc. since 1995. Mr. E. Crawford is the father of Mr. M. Crawford. 

Mr. Fogarty has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Fogarty was Director of Corporate Development since 1997 and served as Director of Finance from 1995 to 1997. Prior to 1995, Mr. Fogarty was employed by Ernst &#38; Young from 1983 to 1995. 

Mr. Vilsack &#32;has been Secretary and General Counsel since joining us in 2002. From 1999 until his employment with us, Mr. Vilsack was engaged in the private practice of law. From 1997 to 1999, Mr. Vilsack was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Medusa Corporation, a manufacturer of Portland cement, and prior to that he was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Figgie International Inc., a manufacturing conglomerate. 

