 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Photronics, Inc. (and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as "Photronics" or the "Company" or &#8220;we&#8221;) is one of the world's leading manufacturers of photomasks, which are high precision photographic quartz plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of semiconductors and flat panel displays ("FPDs"), and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and flat panel substrates during the fabrication of integrated circuits ("ICs") and a variety of FPDs and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical and optical components. The Company currently operates principally from nine manufacturing facilities; two of which are located in Europe, three in Taiwan, one in Korea and three in the United States.

Photronics is a Connecticut corporation, organized in 1969. Its principal executive offices are located at 15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut 06804, telephone (203) 775-9000. The Company's website is located at http://www.photronics.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The information found on or incorporated into the Company's website is not part of this or any other report the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC.

Products and Manufacturing Technology

The Company manufactures photomasks, which are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and flat panel substrates. Photomasks are manufactured in accordance with circuit designs provided on a confidential basis by the Company's customers. IC and FPD photomask sets are manufactured in layers, each having a distinct pattern which is etched onto a different photomask. The resulting series of photomasks is then used to image the circuit patterns onto each successive layer of a semiconductor wafer or flat panel substrate. The typical manufacturing process for a photomask involves the receipt and conversion of circuit design data to manufacturing pattern data. A lithography system then exposes the circuit pattern onto the photomask blank. The exposed areas are developed and etched to produce that pattern on the photomask. The photomask is then inspected for defects and conformity to the customer's design data. After any defects are repaired, the photomask is cleaned using a proprietary process, any required pellicles (protective translucent cellulose membranes) are applied and, after final inspection, the photomask is shipped to the customer.

The Company currently supports customers across the full spectrum of IC production and FPD technologies by manufacturing photomasks using electron beam or optical (laser-based) systems, which are the predominant technologies used for photomask manufacturing, and are capable of producing the finer line resolution, tighter overlay and larger die size for the larger and more complex circuits currently being designed. Electron beam and laser generated photomasks can be used to produce the most advanced semiconductors and FPDs for use in an array of products. However, in the case of IC production, electron beam technologies fabricate the large majority of higher cost critical layer photomasks, while photomasks produced using laser-based systems are less expensive and less precise. End markets served with IC photomasks include devices used for microprocessors, memory, telecommunications and related applications. The Company currently owns a number of high-end and mature electron beam and laser-based systems.

The first several layers of photomasks are sometimes required to be delivered by the Company within 24 hours from the time it receives customers' design data. The ability to manufacture high quality photomasks within short time periods is dependent upon robust processes, efficient manufacturing methods, high production yield, available manufacturing capacity and high equipment reliability. The Company works to meet these requirements by making significant investments in research and development, capital equipment, manufacturing, and data processing systems, and by utilizing statistical process control methods to optimize the manufacturing process and reduce cycle times.

Quality control is an integral part of the photomask manufacturing process. Photomasks are manufactured in temperature, humidity, and particulate controlled clean rooms because of the high level of precision, quality and manufacturing yield required. Each photomask is inspected several times during the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with customer specifications. The Company continues to make substantial investments in equipment to inspect and repair photomasks to ensure that customer specifications are met.

The majority of IC photomasks produced for the semiconductor industry employ geometries of larger than 45 nanometers. At these geometries, the Company can produce full lines of photomasks and there is no significant technology employed by the Company's competitors that is not also available to the Company. The Company is also capable of producing full lines of photomasks for high-end IC and FPD applications. In the case of ICs, this includes photomasks at and below the 45 nanometer technology node and, for FPDs, at and above the Generation 8 technology node and active-matrix organic light-emitting diode (AMOLED) display screens. The Company has access to technology and customer qualified manufacturing capability that allows it to compete in high-end markets, serving both IC and FPD applications.

Sales and Marketing

The market for photomasks primarily consists of domestic and international semiconductor and FPD manufacturers and designers. Photomasks are manufactured by independent merchant manufacturers like Photronics, and by semiconductor and FPD manufacturers that produce photomasks for their own use (captive manufacturers). In some instances, captive manufacturers also sell to other semiconductor or FPD manufacturers. Previously there was a trend towards the divesture or closing of captive photomask operations by semiconductor manufacturers and an increase in the share of the market served by independent manufacturers. This trend was driven by the increased complexity and cost of capital equipment used in manufacturing photomasks and the lack of economy of scale for many semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to effectively utilize the equipment. However, more recently the remaining and largest captive mask facilities have started investing at faster rates than independent manufacturers to reach certain roadmap milestones, particularly in the foundry logic and memory spaces. Nevertheless, most captive manufacturers maintain business and technology relationships with independent photomask manufacturers for ongoing support.

Generally, the Company and each of its customers engage in a qualification and correlation process before the Company becomes an approved supplier. Thereafter, the Company typically negotiates pricing parameters for a customer's orders based on the customer's specifications. Some prices may remain in effect for an extended period of time. In some instances, the Company enters into sales arrangements with an understanding that, as long as the Company's performance is competitive, the Company will receive a specified percentage of that customer's photomask requirements. However, none of the Company's customers have entered into a significant long-term agreement with the Company requiring them to purchase the Company's products.

The Company conducts its sales and marketing activities primarily through a staff of full-time sales personnel and customer service representatives who work closely with the Company's management and technical personnel. In addition to the sales personnel at the Company's manufacturing facilities, the Company has sales offices in the United States, Europe and Asia.

The Company supports international customers through both its domestic and international facilities. The Company considers its presence in international markets to be an important factor in attracting new customers, as it provides global solutions to its customers, minimizes delivery time, and allows it to serve customers that utilize manufacturing foundries outside of the United States, principally in Asia. See Note 15 to the Company's consolidated financial statements for the amount of net sales and long-lived assets attributable to each of the Company's geographic areas of operations.

Customers

The Company primarily sells its products to leading semiconductor and FPD manufacturers. The Company's largest customers (listed alphabetically) during the fiscal year ended November 1, 2015 ("fiscal 2015") included the following:

AU Optronics Corp.

&#160; Micron Technology, Inc.

Dongbu HiTek Co. Ltd.

&#160; Nanya Technology Corporation

Global Foundries, Inc.

&#160; ON Semiconductor Corporation

Himax Display, Inc.

&#160; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

IM Flash Technologies, LLC

&#160; Semiconductor International Manufacturing Corp.

Innolux Corporation

&#160; Shanghai Huahong Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation

Inotera Memories, Inc.

&#160; ST Microelectronics, Inc.

LG Electronics, Inc.

&#160; Texas Instruments Incorporated

Macronix International Company, Ltd.

&#160; Tower Semiconductor, Ltd.

MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation

&#160; United Microelectronics Corp.

During fiscal 2015, the Company sold its products and services to approximately 600 customers. Sales to one customer accounted for approximately 18%, 16% and 18% of the Company&#8217;s total net sales in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and sales to another customer accounted for approximately 15% and 11% of the Company&#8217;s total net sales in fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company's five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 52%, 44% and 43% of net sales in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. A significant decrease in the amount of sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance and business prospects of the Company.

Seasonality

The Company's quarterly revenues can be affected by the seasonal purchasing of its customers. The Company is typically impacted during its first quarter by the North American and European holiday periods, as some customers reduce their effective workdays and orders during this period. Additionally, the Company can be impacted during its first or second fiscal quarter by the Asian New Year holiday period, which also may reduce customer orders.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development activities for IC photomasks at its MP Mask Technology Center, LLC ("MP Mask"), a joint venture with Micron Technology, Inc. (&#8220;Micron&#8221;) and at its U.S. nanoFab, both of which are located in Boise, Idaho, as well as at PK, Ltd. (&#8220;PKL&#8221;), its subsidiary in Korea and Photronics DNP Mask Corporation (&#8220;PDMC&#8221;), one of its subsidiaries in Taiwan. Research and development for FPD photomasks is conducted at PKL. Additionally, the Company conducts site-specific research and development programs to support strategic customers. These research and development programs and activities are undertaken to advance the Company's competitiveness in technology and manufacturing efficiency. The Company also conducts application oriented research and development activities to support the early adoption of new photomask or supporting data and services technology into the customers' applications. Currently, research and development photomask activities for ICs are focused on 20 nanometer node and below and, for FPDs, on Generation 8 resolution enhancement, substrates larger than Generation 8 and more complex masks for AMOLED type displays. The Company believes these core competencies will continue to be a critical part of semiconductor and FPD manufacturing, as optical lithography continues to scale capabilities on high-end devices. The Company has incurred research and development expenses of $21.9 million in fiscal years 2015 and 2014 and $20.8 million in fiscal year 2013. The Company believes that it owns, controls, or licenses valuable proprietary information that is necessary for its business as it is presently conducted. This includes trade secrets as well as patents. The Company also believes that its intellectual property and trade secret know-how will continue to be important to its maintaining technical leadership in the field of photomasks.

On March 24, 2015, the Company announced that the MP Mask joint venture would not be renewed after May 5, 2016, and concurrently, the Company announced that it entered into supply and technology license agreements with Micron. This technology license agreement commenced in March 2015 and continues through the earlier of one year from the termination of the initial technology license agreement on May 5, 2016, or when Micron certifies that it has transferred certain defined technology to the Company. The Company forevermore has the rights to use the technology obtained under these technology license agreements.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has ownership interests in approximately 50 issued U.S. patents. The subject matter of these patents, which are registered in various countries, generally relates to the manufacture of IC photomasks or the use of photomasks to manufacture other products. The expiration dates of these patents range from 2018 to 2030. Additionally, pursuant to a technology license agreement with Micron, the Company has access to certain technologies of Micron and MP Mask. The Company also has a number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries.

While the Company believes that its intellectual property is, and will continue to be, important to its technical leadership in the field of photomasks, its operations are not dependent on any one individual patent. The Company protects its intellectual property rights and proprietary processes by utilizing patents and non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers and vendors.

Materials, Supplies and Equipment

Raw materials used by the Company generally include: high precision quartz plates (including large area plates), which are used as photomask blanks and are primarily obtained from Japanese and Korean suppliers; pellicles and electronic grade chemicals, which are used in the manufacturing process; and compacts, which are durable plastic containers in which photomasks are shipped. These materials are generally sourced from several suppliers. The Company believes that its utilization of a select group of strategic suppliers enables it to access the most technologically advanced materials available. On an ongoing basis, the Company continues to consider additional supply sources.

The Company relies on a limited number of equipment suppliers to develop and supply the equipment used in the photomask manufacturing process. Although the Company has been able to obtain equipment on a timely basis, an inability to obtain equipment when required could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.

Backlog

The first several layers of a set of photomasks for a circuit pattern are often required to be shipped within 24 hours of receiving a customer's designs. Because of the short period between order and shipment dates (typically from 1 day to 2 weeks) for a significant amount of the Company's sales, the dollar amount of current backlog is not considered to be a reliable indicator of future sales volume.

International Operations

Sales from the Company&#8217;s international operations &#160; were approximately 75%, 77% and 70% of the Company's net sales in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company believes that its ability to serve international markets is enhanced by it having, among other things, a local presence in the markets that it serves. This requires a significant investment in financial, managerial, operational, and other resources.

Operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable collection cycles, potential restrictions on transfers of funds and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to generate sales outside of the United States and to deploy resources where they could otherwise be used to their greatest advantage and, consequently, may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Note 15 of the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements presents net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Competition

The photomask industry is highly competitive and most of the Company's customers utilize multiple photomask suppliers. The Company's ability to compete depends primarily upon the consistency of its products&#8217; quality, timeliness of delivery, as well as pricing, technical capability and service, which the Company believes &#160; are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting their photomask suppliers. The Company also believes that proximity to customers is an important factor in certain markets where cycle time from order to delivery is critical. Some competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than the Company. An inability to meet these requirements could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company believes that it is able to compete effectively because of its dedication to customer service, investment in state-of-the-art photomask equipment and facilities, and experienced technical employees.

The Company estimates that, for the types of photomasks it manufactures (IC and FPD), the size of the total market (captive and merchant) is approximately $3.9 billion. Its competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd., DNP (outside of Taiwan), Hoya Corporation, SK-Electronics Co. Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. The Company also competes with semiconductor manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations that supply photomasks for internal use and, in some instances, also for external customers and foundries. The Company expects to face continued competition which, in the past, has led to pressure to reduce prices. The Company believes the pressure to reduce prices, coupled with the significant investment required in capital equipment to manufacture high-end photomasks, has contributed to the decrease in the number of independent manufacturers, and expects such pressure to continue in the future.

Employees

As of November 1, 2015, the Company had approximately 1,550 employees. The Company believes it offers competitive compensation and other benefits and that its employee relations are good.

