 Item 1. Business 

Background 

Plug Power Inc., or the Company, is a leading provider of alternative energy technology focused on the design, development, commercialization and manufacture of hydrogen fuel cell systems used primarily for the material handling and stationary power market. 

We are focused on proton exchange membrane, or PEM, fuel cell and fuel processing technologies, fuel cell/battery hybrid technologies, and associated hydrogen storage and dispensing infrastructure from which multiple products are available. A fuel cell is an electrochemical device that combines hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity and heat without combustion. Hydrogen is derived from hydrocarbon fuels such as liquid petroleum gas, or LPG, natural gas, propane, methanol, ethanol, gasoline or biofuels. Plug Power develops complete hydrogen delivery, storage and refueling solutions for customer locations. Hydrogen can also be obtained from the electrolysis of water, or produced on-site at consumer locations through a process known as reformation. Currently the Company obtains hydrogen by purchasing it from fuel suppliers. 

We provide and continue to develop fuel cell product solutions to replace lead-acid batteries in material handling vehicles and industrial trucks for some of the world's largest distribution and manufacturing businesses with a primary focus on North America. We are focusing our efforts on material handling applications (forklifts) at multi-shift high volume manufacturing and high throughput distribution sites where our products and services provide a unique combination of productivity, flexibility and environmental benefits. Our current product line includes: GenDrive, our hydrogen fueled PEM fuel cell system providing power to material handling vehicles; GenFuel, our hydrogen fueling delivery system; GenCare, our ongoing maintenance program for both the GenDrive fuel cells and GenFuel products; ReliOn, our stationary fuel cell solution providing scalable, modular PEM fuel cell power to support the backup and grid-support power requirements of the telecommunications, transportation, and utility sectors; GenKey, our turn-key solution coupling together GenDrive or ReliOn, GenFuel and GenCare, offering complete simplicity to customers transitioning to fuel cell power; and GenFund, a collaboration with leasing organizations to provide cost efficient and seamless financing solutions to customers. 

We provide our products worldwide, with a primary focus on North America, through our direct product sales force, leveraging relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and their dealer networks. Through July 31, 2015, we were a party to a joint venture based in France with Axane, S.A. (Axane), a subsidiary of Air Liquide, under the name HyPulsion, to develop and sell hydrogen fuel cell systems for the European material handling market. On July 31, 2015 we purchased all of Axane's equity interest in HyPulsion and now hold 100% of such interests. See note 4 of the Company's consolidated financial statements regarding our acquisition of the remaining ownership of HyPulsion. Prior to the acquisition the Company had a zero basis in its equity investment. 

We were organized as a corporation in the State of Delaware on June 27, 1997. 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Company," "Plug Power," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refers to Plug Power Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

Business Strategy 

We are committed to developing effective, economical and reliable fuel cell related products, systems and services for businesses and government agencies. Building on our substantial fuel cell application and product integration experience, we are focused on generating strong relationships with customers who value increased reliability, productivity and energy security. 

Our business strategy leverages our unique fuel cell application and integration knowledge to identify early adopter markets for which we can design and develop innovative systems and customer solutions that provide superior value, ease-of-use and environmental design. 

We have made significant progress in penetrating the material handling market, supported through the deployment of over 10,300 GenDrive units into commercial applications. We believe we have developed reliable products which allow the end customers to eliminate incumbent power sources from their operations, and realize their sustainability objectives through clean energy alternatives. In addition, we have deployed our GenKey hydrogen and fuel cell solution to multiple customer sites. 

Our primary strategy is to focus our resources on the material handling market. Through established customer relationships, Plug Power has proven itself as a trusted partner with a reliable fuel cell solution. Our strategy also includes the following objectives: decrease product costs by leveraging the supply chain, lower manufacturing costs, improve system reliability, expand our sales network to effectively reach more of our targeted customers and provide customers with high-quality products, service and post-sales support experience. 

Our longer-term objectives are to deliver economic, social, and environmental benefits in terms of reliable, clean, cost-effective fuel cell solutions and, ultimately, productivity. 

We believe continued investment in research and development is critical to the development and enhancement of innovative products, technologies and services. In addition to evolving our direct hydrogen fueled systems, we continue to capitalize on our investment and expertise in power electronics, controls, and software design. 

We continue to develop and monitor future fuel cell solutions that align with our evolving product roadmap. By leveraging our current GenDrive architecture, Plug Power is evaluating adjacent markets such as transport refrigeration units (TRU), ground support equipment (GSE) and range extenders. 

Business Organization 

We manage our business as a single operating segment, emphasizing shared learning across end-user applications and common supplier/vendor relationships. 

Products and Services 

We provide and continue to develop hydrogen and fuel cell product solutions to replace lead-acid batteries in material handling vehicles and industrial trucks for some of North America's largest distribution and manufacturing businesses. We are focusing our efforts on material handling applications (forklifts) at multi-shift high volume manufacturing and high throughput distribution sites where our products and services provide a unique combination of productivity, flexibility and environmental benefits. Additionally, we manufacture and sell fuel cell products to replace batteries and diesel generators in stationary backup power applications. These products prove valuable with telecommunications, transportation and utility customers as a robust, reliable and sustainable power solution. Our current products and services include: 

GenKey : Introduced in 2014, GenKey is our turn-key solution offering complete simplicity to customers transitioning their material handling vehicles to fuel cell power. GenKey provides a "one-stop shopping" option for our customers, combining GenDrive next-generation fuel cells with our GenFuel and GenCare products, described more fully below. Our GenKey offering allows us to handle power, fueling, and service for our customers, which in turn allows the customers to focus on their business and productivity. Financing options are available to GenKey customers via our GenFund platform. 

GenDrive : GenDrive is our primary product line, a hydrogen fueled PEM fuel cell system providing power to material handling vehicles. Income is generated from both the sale of GenDrive systems and the providing of power generating equipment via a Power Purchase Agreement. 

GenFuel : GenFuel is our hydrogen fueling delivery system, designed to allow customers to easily refuel our GenDrive units for maximum productivity. We also sell fuel delivered to customers sourced from industrial gas suppliers. 

GenCare : GenCare is our ongoing maintenance program for both the GenDrive fuel cells and GenFuel products. GenCare includes advanced system monitoring, preventive maintenance, periodic system enhancements, parts inventory logs, and rapid-response onsite service by trained GenCare technicians. 

ReliOn : ReliOn is our stationary fuel cell solution providing scalable, modular PEM fuel cell power to support the backup and grid-support power requirements of the telecommunications, transportation, and utility sectors. 

GenFund : GenFund represents a collaboration between Plug Power and recognized asset leasing organizations to provide cost efficient and seamless financing solutions to customers. 

To promote fuel cell adoption and maintain post-sale customer satisfaction, we offer a range of service and support options through extended maintenance contracts. Additionally, customers may waive our service option, and choose to service their systems independently. A high percentage of fuel cells sold in recent years were bundled with maintenance contracts. As a result, only 3% of fuel cells deployed are still under standard warranty that is not a part of an extended maintenance contract. 

Markets/Geography &#38; Order Status 

The Company's products and services predominantly serve the North American material handling market, and primarily support large fleet, multi-shift operations in high-volume manufacturing and high-throughput distribution centers. Based on recent market experience, it appears there may be some seasonality to sales stemming from varied customer appropriation cycles; however, these market factors will continue to evolve and the Company's insight to these trends will improve with continued commercial success and time. 

Orders for the Company's products and services in 2015 approximated $205.3 million compared to total orders in 2014 of $151.4 million. The Company's backlog for products and services as of December 31, 2015 was approximately $235.6 million, compared to the Company's backlog as of December 31, 2014 of approximately $133.4 million. The Company's backlog at any given time is comprised of products, hydrogen installations, maintenance services, and hydrogen fuel deliveries. The specific elements of the backlog will vary in terms of timing of delivery and can vary between 90 days to 10 years, with products and hydrogen installations being delivered near term and maintenance services and hydrogen fuel deliveries being delivered over a longer period of time. Historically, shipments made against these product orders generally occur between ninety days and twenty-four months from the date of acceptance of the order. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, the only customer exceeding 10% of total consolidated revenues was Walmart, which accounted for 56.7% of our total consolidated revenues. A loss or decline in business with this customer could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We assemble our products at our manufacturing facilities in Latham, New York and Spokane, Washington, and provide our services and installations at customer locations. Currently, the supply and 

manufacture of varied critical components used in our products and services are performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., Canada and China. 

Distribution, Marketing and Strategic Relationships 

We have developed strategic relationships with well-established companies in key areas including distribution, service, marketing, supply, technology development and product development. We sell our products worldwide, with a primary focus on North America, through our direct product sales force, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and their dealer networks. Additionally, we operate in Europe under the name HyPulsion, to develop and sell hydrogen fuel cell systems for the European material handling market. 

Competition 

We are confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of our business. The markets we address for motive power are characterized by the presence of well-established battery and combustion generator products. Over the past several years, there has been price competition in these markets. In addition to overall pricing, the principal competitive factors in the markets in which we operate include product features, including size and weight, relative price and performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. 

In the material handling market, we believe our GenDrive products have an advantage over lead-acid batteries for customers who run high-throughput distribution centers and manufacturing locations with multi-shift operations by offering increased productivity with lower operational costs. However, we expect competition in this space to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate our approach with their own offerings. These competitors may have greater resources than we currently have. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that neither we nor our competitors can achieve a significant proprietary position on the basic technologies currently used in PEM fuel cell systems. However, we believe the design and integration of our system and system components, as well as some of the low-cost manufacturing processes that we have developed, are intellectual property that can be protected. Our intellectual property portfolio covers among other things: fuel cell components that reduce manufacturing part count; fuel cell system designs that lend themselves to mass manufacturing; improvements to fuel cell system efficiency, reliability and system life; and control strategies, such as added safety protections and operation under extreme conditions. In general, our employees are party to agreements providing that all inventions, whether patented or not, made or conceived while being our employee, which are related to or result from work or research that we perform, will remain our sole and exclusive property. 

We have a total of 161 issued patents currently active with the USPTO. At the close of 2015, we had two U.S. patent applications pending. Additionally, we have 12 trademarks registered with the USPTO and no trademark applications pending. 

Government Regulation 

Our products and their installations are subject to oversight and regulation at the state and local level in accordance with state and local statutes and ordinances relating to, among others, building codes, fire codes, public safety, electrical and gas pipeline connections and hydrogen siting. The level of regulation may depend, in part, upon where a system is located. 

In addition, product safety standards have been established by the American National Standards Institute, or ANSI, covering the overall fuel cell system. The class 1, 2 and 3 GenDrive products are designed with the intent of meeting the requirements of UL 2267 "Fuel Cell Power Systems for Installation in Industrial Electric Trucks" and NFPA 505 "Fire Safety Standard for Powered Industrial Trucks". The hydrogen tanks used in these systems have been either certified to ANSI/CSA NGV2-2007 "Compressed Natural Gas Vehicle Fuel Containers" or ISO/TS 15869 "Gaseous hydrogen and hydrogen blends&#151;Land vehicle fuel tanks". We will continue to design our GenDrive products to meet ANSI and/or other standards in 2016. We certified several models of Class 1, 2 and 3 GenDrive products to the requirements of the CE mark with guidance from a European certified body. The hydrogen tanks used in these systems are certified to the Pressure Equipment Directive by a European certified body. 

The GenFuel hydrogen storage and dispensing products are designed with the intent of meeting the requirements of NFPA 2 "Hydrogen Technologies Code". 

Other than these requirements, at this time we do not know what additional requirements, if any, each jurisdiction will impose on our products or their installation. We also do not know the extent to which any new regulations may impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. As we continue distributing our systems to our target markets, the federal, state, local or foreign government entities may seek to impose regulations or competitors may seek to influence regulations through lobbying efforts. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

Most components essential to our business are generally available from multiple sources. We currently obtain certain components including, but not limited to, fuel cell stack materials, and other hydrogen components from single or limited sources. We are, however, evaluating and testing alternate component sources. 

We are party to supply agreements with suppliers for fuel cell stacks and stack components which provide for terms through December 31, 2017. Under these agreements, we are not obligated to purchase fuel cell stacks solely from these suppliers and may purchase from alternate suppliers. In addition, in 2015, we began to produce fuel cell stacks and expect to both source them externally and produce them internally for the foreseeable future. 

We believe there are component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. Such vendors include sources of our fuel cell stacks. We are mitigating these potential risks by introducing alternate system architectures which we expect will allow us to diversify our supply chain with multiple fuel cell stack and air supply component vendors. We are also working closely with these vendors and other key suppliers on coordinated product introduction plans, strategic inventories, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. 

Research and Development 

Because the fuel cell industry is characterized by its early state of adoption, our ability to compete successfully is heavily dependent upon our ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services, and technologies to the marketplace. We continue to develop new products and technologies and to enhance existing products in the areas of cost, size, weight, and in supporting service solutions in order to drive further commercialization. 

We may expand the range of our product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and/or acquisition of third-party business and technology. Our research and development expense totaled $14.9 million, $6.5 million and $3.1 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also had 

cost of research and development contract revenue of $0.5 million, $3.2 million and $2.5 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These expenses represent the cost of research and development programs that are partially funded under cost reimbursement research and development arrangements with third parties and are reported within other cost of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 439 employees, including 95 temporary employees. We consider our relationship with our employees to be positive. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

Please refer to our Geographic Information included in our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge, other than an investor's own internet access charges, on the Company's website with an internet address of www.plugpower.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website address is http://www.sec.gov. 

