 Item 1. Business Overview 

We were incorporated on July 26, 2013 under the laws of the State of Nevada. Our principal executive offices are located at 223 De La Cruz Road, Pasay, Metro Manila, Philippines. Our telephone number is (63)(914) 269 9345. Our fiscal year end is March 31.

We have no subsidiaries.

We are a start-up, exploration stage company. We have purchased a 100% interest in an 8 unit claim block (the &#147;Palayan Gold Claim&#148;) containing approximately 82.7 hectares that is recorded with the Nueva Ecija provincial office of the Department of the Environment and Natural Resources (Mines and Geosciences) of the Republic of the Philippines. The Palayan Gold Claim was assigned to us on June 20, 2013 from Verdasco Enterprises for the sum of $5,000. However, we do not currently have the necessary funds to undertake exploration of this property and will need to raise capital in order to do so. If we cannot, we may have to go out of business. The proposed two phase exploration plan will cost approximately $19,260 (Approximately 840,327 Philippine Pesos (PHP). There has been no production to date. There are no full-time employees and management is able to spend only a small amount of time with respect to these affairs. Our company has no other assets.

From our inception on July 26, 2013 through March 31, 2016, we raised $30,000 in capital in private placements by issuing 30,000,000 shares of common stock at the price of $0.001 per share.

Emerging Growth Company 

We are an Emerging Growth Company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (&#147; JOBS &#148;) Act.

We shall continue to be deemed an emerging growth company until the earliest of

(A) the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer during which it had total annual gross revenues of $1,000,000,000 (as such amount is indexed for inflation every 5 years by the Commission to reflect the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, setting the threshold to the nearest 1,000,000) or more;

(B) the last day of the fiscal year of the issuer following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of common equity securities of the issuer pursuant to an effective registration statement;

(C) the date on which such issuer has, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1,000,000,000 in non-convertible debt; or

(D) the date on which such issuer is deemed to be a &#145;large accelerated filer&#146;, as defined in section 240.12b -2 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.&#146;.

As an emerging growth company, we are exempt from Section 404(b) of Regulation S-K . Section 404(a) requires Issuers to publish information in their annual reports concerning the scope and adequacy of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. This statement shall also assess the effectiveness of such internal controls and procedures.

Section 404(b) requires that the registered accounting firm shall, in the same report, attest to and report on the assessment on the effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting.

As an emerging growth company we are exempt from Section 14A (a) and (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which require the shareholder approval of executive compensation and golden parachutes.

We have elected not to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised accounting standards pursuant to Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act.

We will be conducting exploration activities in the Philippines. If the U.S. dollar loses strength to the Philippine Pesos (PHP) our future operations may be adversely affected.

There have been no purchases of our equity securities by us since inception. 

Regulation of Mining Activity- Republic of Philippines Mining Laws 

Regulation of Mining, Generally 

All mineral property rights and mining related activities in the Republic of the Philippines are subject to a developed system of state regulation and oversight. Article XII, Section 2 of the 1987 Constitution states that all lands of the public domain, minerals, coal, and other natural resources are owned by the State. Section 2 also gives the State full control and supervision over the right to the exploration, development, and utilization of natural resources. The State may directly undertake these activities or enter into co-production, joint venture, or production-sharing agreements with Filipino citizens or corporations at least 60% Filipino-owned. It may also enter into agreements (Financial or Technical Assistance Agreement or &#147;FTAA&#148;) with foreign corporations involving technical or financial-assistance for large-scale projects involving minerals, petroleum, and other mineral oils. These directives are embodied in Mining Act of 1995 (R.A. No. 7942) which, together with Administrative Order (DAO) No. 2010-21(Consolidated Implementing Rules and Regulations or &#147;IRR&#148;), is the primary law governing mining in the Philippines. The administration and disposition of mineral lands and mineral resources and the propagation of rules and regulation pursuant to the Mining Act are carried out by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the Mines and Geosciences Bureau (MGB) of the DENR. 

Pursuant to the Consolidated Implementing Rules and Regulations an applicant planning to conduct exploration activities in a specific area needs to apply for and obtain an exploration permit. Depending on the exploration results, the exploration permit can be then converted into an Mineral Production Sharing Agreement (MPSA) or a Financial or Technical Assistance Agreement (FTAA).

Tenurial Permits and Agreements 

Exploration Permits 

The acquisition of mineral rights is a process that begins with the acquisition of an exploration permit (EP). An EP is a grant from the Philippine government that gives the permit holder the right to conduct exploration of all minerals within a specified area. An exploration permit applicant must show its financial capability by having a minimum authorized capital stock of PHP10 million and a minimum paid-up capital of PHP2.5 million. It must further show its financial and technical qualification by submitting to the MGB the following:

&#160; &#149; a two-year Exploration Work Program (&#147;EWP&#148;) duly prepared, signed and sealed by a licensed mining engineer or geologist; &#160; &#149; proof of technical competence including, among others, curricula vitae and track record in exploration and environmental management of the technical personnel who will undertake the activities in accordance with the submitted EWP; &#160; &#149; proof of financial capability to undertake the Exploration Program, such as bank deposit or credit line bank guarantee(s) and/or similar instruments; and &#160; &#149; an Environmental Work Program (&#147;EnWP&#148;).which includes a comprehensive and strategic environmental management plan for the protection and rehabilitation of the disturbed environment during and after the exploration periods. 6

The term of an EP is typically one or two years from date of issuance. It may generally be renewed for additional one or two year periods. Subject to any variances approved by the MGB, it cannot exceed a total term of four years for nonmetallic mineral exploration or six years for metallic mineral exploration. The MGB will grant a renewal of the exploration period provided that the MGB has not found the EP holder to have violated (i) the terms and conditions of the EP, and (ii) any provision of the Mining Act and IRR.

Mineral Production Sharing Agreement and Financial or Technical Assistance Agreement 

If the EP holder determines that mining operations are feasible within the EP area, the EP holder will submit a Declaration of Mining Project Feasibility (&#147;DMF&#148;) during the exploration period and apply for either a Mineral Production Sharing Agreements (MPSA) or a Financial or Technical Assistance Agreement (FTAA). The DENR will determine whether to grant the EP holder an MPSA or an FTAA based upon the DMF. 

Mineral Production Sharing Agreements (MPSAs) 

An MPSA is one of the three types of Mineral Agreements under the Mining Act that the government can enter into with a contractor. These three types of mineral agreements are: 

&#160; &#149; MPSA, under which the government grants to the MPSA holder the exclusive right to conduct mining operations within a contract area. The share of the government is in the form of excise tax equivalent to a percentage of the gross output. The MPSA holder will provide the financing, technology, management and personnel necessary for the implementation of the MPSA. &#160; &#149; Co-production Agreement, under which the government will provide inputs to the mining operations other than the mineral resource. &#160; &#149; Joint Venture Agreement, under which a joint venture company is organized by the government and the contractor with both parties holding equity shares. In addition to earnings from the equity, the government will be entitled to a share in the gross output. To date, the DENR has not entered into a Joint Venture Agreement and Co-Production Agreement. These types of Mineral Agreements require the government to contribute inputs other than mineral resource or equity. 

MPSA Approval Process 

Within the term of the exploration period, an applicant seeking to enter into an MPSA must, among other things, file with the MGB Regional Office concerned, a Declaration of Mining Project Feasibility (DMF), a three-year Development and Construction or Commercial Operation Work Program, a geologic report, an application for survey, and an Environmental Compliance Certificate (&#147;ECC&#148;) indicating compliance with the applicants Environmental Work Program. 

Thereafter, subject to any variation in or extension of the MPSA, the MPSA holder must complete the development of the mine including the construction of production facilities within 36 months from the submission and approval of the DMF.

The MPSA holder must submit to the MGB, within 30 days prior to completion of mine development and construction of production facilities, a Three-Year Commercial Operation Work Program. The MPSA holder is required to commence commercialization of the mine immediately upon approval by the MGB of the Work Program. 

The typical terms of an MPSA is 25 years, renewable for another 25 years upon mutual agreement between the government and the contractor. In the event the government decides to permit mining operations to be conducted in the MPSA area by another party, the MPSA stipulates that competitive public bidding must be conducted. The original MPSA holder will have the right to match the highest bid. 

During the operating period, the MPSA holder must submit to the MGB Director Work Programs and budgets covering a period of three year, which must be submitted not later than 30 days before the expiration of the period covered by the previous Work Program. 

Fiscal Regime 

The government share in an MPSA is the excise tax on mineral products at the time of removal. The excise tax is based upon a percentage of gross production from the mining operation under the MPSA. The excise tax is generally 2% of all metallic or non-metallic minerals based on the actual market value of the minerals at the time of removal. 

FTAA Approval Process:

The Philippine Constitution provides that the President may, on behalf of the government, enter into agreements involving either technical or financial assistance for large-scale exploration, development and utilization of minerals in order to promote the economic growth and general welfare of the Philippines. To implement this Constitutional provision and to promote investments from both domestic and international sources, the Mining Act authorizes the President to execute and approve on behalf of the government FTAAs to be entered into with qualified entities for large-scale exploration, development and commercial utilization of mineral resources. The FTAA holder is granted the exclusive right to explore, mine, utilize, process, refine, market, transport, export and dispose of minerals and mineral products and by-products that may be derived or produced from the FTAA area, subject to such permit requirements that may be applicable under pertinent laws, rules and regulations.

The IRR allows an applicant to apply for an FTAA, instead of an EP. An FTAA entered into in this manner would contain its own exploration period. However, the applicant would need to justify to the DENR that the project can qualify as a large-scale mining project that would require an investment commitment of at least US$50 million for development and construction. Unlike MPSAs, which are executed by the DENR, FTAAs are executed by the applicant and the Philippine President upon the recommendation of the DENR Secretary. 

The Term of the model FTAA is 25 years from the Effective Date. The FTAA may be renewed upon mutual agreement by the FTAA holder and the government, for a period not exceeding 25 years. 

Executive Order 79 Moratorium on MPSAs 

On July 9 2012, the Office of the President of the Republic of the Philippines released Executive Order No. 79 entitled &#147;Institutionalizing and Implementing Reforms in the Philippine Mining Sector, Providing Policies and Guidelines to Ensure Environmental Protection and Responsible Mining in the Utilization of Mineral Resources.&#148; 

Among other reforms, Section 4 of Executive Order 79 imposes a moratorium on the execution of new mineral agreements (such as mineral production sharing agreements) until legislation rationalizing existing revenue sharing schemes and mechanisms shall have taken effect. Accordingly, the DENR will not accept nor approve applications for mineral agreements until the moratorium is lifted by the passage of a statute rationalizing the current fiscal regime of mineral agreements. Section 4, however, excludes the issuance of exploration permits, financial or technical assistance agreements, mineral processing permits, and quarry permits from the coverage of the moratorium. 

At present, mining contractors are generally subject to a two percent excise tax based on the actual market value of the gross output of the mineral resources at the time of removal. Legislators are proposing to increase the excise tax rate to at least five percent. 

Section 4 of the Executive Order likewise relegates the entitlement of an exploration permit holder to a mineral agreement from an &#147;exclusive right&#148; into a &#147;right of first option&#148;. While the term is not defined in the Order, a right of first option connotes a right that is inferior to an exclusive right. As opposed to an exclusive right, a right of first option implies that third parties will have similar rights with respect to the area covered by the exploration permit but that the permit holder is given the first option to exercise or enjoy such right.

The MGB Director has also disclosed that the Office of the President has directed the DENR to immediately provide guidelines for entering into Joint Venture Agreements (JVAs) and Co-Production Agreements (CPAs), and to encourage and promote the use of the same. This may indicate that the Philippine Government intends to prioritize the use of JVAs and CPAs, instead of MPSAs, although this is interpretation is speculative. In a similar manner to an FTAA, the terms and conditions of JVAs and CPAs would be negotiated between the government and the contractor. 

The Executive Order also directs the DENR to undertake a review of existing mining contracts and agreements for possible renegotiation of the same, and further states that the renegotiated terms and conditions must be mutually acceptable to the government and the mining contractor. 

Concerns have been raised on the validity of the moratorium on the grant of mineral agreements (i.e., MPSAs, JVAs, and CPAs) under the Executive Order on the ground that a presidential executive order cannot suspend the provisions of an act of Congress (i.e., the Mining Act) that allows the grant of mineral agreements.

Legislation 

As at the date of this report, we are in compliance with all material mining and environmental legislation and regulations applicable to our activities and hold a valid mineral property license. At this time, we cannot anticipate the impact that recent developments such as the above described Executive Order 79 will have on our planned or future operations. Changes to current laws in the jurisdiction in which we operate may entail additional costs and increase our financing requirements. Potential changes are unpredictable and any additional environmental, technical or other substantive requirements may render our planned exploration activities futile or uneconomical and lead to the failure of our business.

Market, Customers and Distribution Methods 

Although there can be no assurance, large and well capitalized markets are readily available for all metals and precious metals throughout the world. A very sophisticated futures market for the pricing and delivery of future production also exists. The price for metals is affected by a number of global factors, including economic strength and resultant demand for metals for production, fluctuating supplies, mining activities and production by others in the industry, and new and or reduced uses for subject metals.

The mining industry is highly speculative and of a very high risk nature. As such, mining activities involve a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Few mining projects actually become operating mines.

The mining industry is subject to a number of factors, including intense industry competition, high susceptibility to economic conditions (such as price of metal, foreign currency exchange rates, and capital and operating costs), and political conditions (which could affect such things as import and export regulations, foreign ownership restrictions). Furthermore, the mining activities are subject to all hazards incidental to mineral exploration, development and production, as well as risk of damage from earthquakes, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or loss of property and equipment and possible environmental damage. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations and other conditions are also involved in mineral exploration and development.

Competition 

The mineral exploration industry is highly competitive. We are a new and exploration stage company and have a weak competitive position in the industry. We compete with junior and senior mineral exploration companies, independent producers and institutional and individual investors who are actively seeking to acquire mineral exploration properties throughout the world together with the equipment, labor and materials required to operate on those properties. Competition for the acquisition of mineral exploration interests is intense with many mineral exploration leases or concessions available in a competitive bidding process in which we may lack the technological information or expertise available to other bidders.

Many of the mineral exploration companies with which we compete for financing and for the acquisition of mineral exploration properties have greater financial and technical resources than those available to us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquiring mineral exploration interests of merit or on exploring or developing their mineral exploration properties. This advantage could enable our competitors to acquire mineral exploration properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may choose to finance their additional exploration and development. Such competition could adversely impact our ability to attain the financing necessary for us to acquire further mineral exploration interests or explore and develop our current or future mineral exploration properties.

We also compete with other junior mineral exploration companies for financing from a limited number of investors that are prepared to invest in such companies. The presence of competing junior mineral exploration companies may impact our ability to raise additional capital in order to fund our acquisition or exploration programs if investors perceive that investments in our competitors are more attractive based on the merit of their mineral exploration properties or the price of the investment opportunity. In addition, we compete with both junior and senior mineral exploration companies for available resources, including, but not limited to, professional geologists, land specialists, engineers, camp staff, helicopters, float planes, mineral exploration supplies and drill rigs.

General competitive conditions may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation introduced from time to time by the governments of the Philippines, the United States and other countries, as well as factors beyond our control, including international political conditions, overall levels of supply and demand for mineral exploration.

In the face of competition, we may not be successful in acquiring, exploring or developing profitable gold or mineral properties or interests, and we cannot give any assurance that suitable gold or mineral properties or interests will be available for our acquisition, exploration or development. Despite this, we hope to compete successfully in the gold or mineral industry by:

&#160; &#149; keeping our costs low; &#160; &#149; relying on the strength of our management&#146;s contacts; and &#160; &#149; using our size and experience to our advantage by adapting quickly to changing market conditions or responding swiftly to potential opportunities. Intellectual Property 

None. 

Research and Development 

We have not incurred any research and development expenses since our inception. 

Reports to Security Holders 

We are subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act and we intend to furnish our shareholders annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and to make available quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year. We may also file additional documents with the Commission if they become necessary in the course of our company&#146;s future operations. 

The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. 

Environmental Regulations 

We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals that have been issued with respect to our future operations. We expect to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to our business, and at this time, we do not anticipate incurring any material capital expenditures to comply with any environmental regulations or other requirements. 

While our intended projects and business activities do not currently violate any laws, any regulatory changes that impose additional restrictions or requirements on us or on our potential customers could adversely affect us by increasing our operating costs or decreasing demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of future operations. 

