 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &#147;could&#148;, "may", "will", "should", "expect", "plan", "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "predict", "potential" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable laws, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements so as to conform these statements to actual results.

As used in this annual report, the terms "we", "us", "our", &#147;the Company&#148;, mean ZD Ventures Corporation, unless otherwise indicated.

All dollar amounts in this annual report refer to US dollars unless otherwise indicated.

Overview 

The Company was incorporated on February 23, 2005 under the laws of the state of Nevada. We have had several changes in our officers and directors since inception up to March 9, 2010 when Mr. Kam Shah became our chairman of the board of directors, president, secretary, treasurer and chief executive officer. Effective September 30, 2014, Mr. Terence Robinson was appointed as the Chairman of the Board of directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Shah continued as a director and a Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Company until July 15, 2015 when he resigned all his positions and Mr. Robinson was appointed to fill the roles of Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of the Company. Mr. Shah continues to provide accounting services as a consultant.

On June 28, 2013, the Company changed its name from Webtradex International Corporation to ZD Ventures Corporation (&#147;ZDV&#148;, the &#147;Company&#148;).

The Company has no subsidiaries. Our principal office is located at 47 Avenue Road, Suite 200, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5R 2G3. Our telephone number is (416) 929-1806. Our fiscal year end is March 31. Effective June 1, 2014, the Company leased an office premises on a five &#150;year term at Pla&#231;a Francesc Maci&#224;, #3 2&#186; 2&#170;, 08021 - Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. However, as allowed under the lease, the Company gave notice to terminate the lease effective July 1, 2015.

ZDV&#146;s business strategy until March 2015 involved developing a social website, B&#146; Wished, acquired in July 2012 aimed at driving traffic for various sellers of products and services which can generate revenue through commissions from the associated sellers and advertisements, as well as other related sources for the Company. However, at the end of March 31, 2015, the Management concluded that this was not a commercially viable business and decided to expense all the costs related to this project. During the fiscal year 2016, the Company also wrote off small investments it had in couple of emerging technology companies in Spain due to unavailability of adequate information from these entities to support any valuation of these investments.

The Company has not yet generated or realized any revenues from business operations. The Company reviewed several business proposals during the fiscal year 2016 and was unable to successfully negotiate any closure on any of these deal and is currently continuing its efforts at finding a suitable business proposal that would meet with its business model and attract the investors. 

The Company's auditors have issued a going concern opinion on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. This means that our auditors believe there is doubt that the Company can continue as an on-

going business for the next twelve months unless it obtains additional capital to pay its bills. ZDV has recently attracted an investor group which has already provided some funding and is willing to provide more equity funding to support the Company&#146;s business strategy. However, the Company has not yet generated significant revenues and its current efforts to find a commercially viable business have not yet been successful. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company and the accompanying notes appearing subsequently under the caption "Financial Statements&#148;.

&#160;

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016, the Company employed no full-time and no part-time employees. Hiring employees over the next twelve months will depend on the continued implementation of the current business strategy and if the required funds are raised. It is likely that for now, the Company will resort to hiring consultants as and when needed rather than employ people on a full-time basis to keep its operational costs at a minimum.

Patents and Trademarks 

We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patents or trademarks.

Available Information 

&#160;

Information regarding the Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available to the public from the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any document that the Company files with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC's public reference room located at Room 1024, Judiciary Plaza, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

